Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17422-GA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF FRF 30.4 MILLION
(US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORA
PILOT COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS
AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
July 28, 1998
Water and Urban II
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/98)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
1,000 CFAF = US$ 1.638
US$ 1 = CFAF 610.52
FISCAL YEAR
January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                   African Development Bank
AGATIP                Agence Gabonaise de Travaux d'Interet Public
AGETIP                Agence d 'Excution de Travaux d'Int&ret Public
CDA                   Community Development Agreement
CDP                   Community Development Plan
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
AFD                   Agence Fran aise de Developpement
COC                   Comit Interministeriel pour I 'Orientation et la Coordination
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOG                   Government of Gabon
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                   International Development Association
KIP                   Kampung Improvement Program
LIL                   Learning and Innovation Loan
MP                    Ministry of Planning (Alinistere de la Planification, de I 'Environnement et du
Tourisme)
-MTU                  Municipal Technical Unit
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
PAPSUT                Programme d 'Ajustement et de Planification des Secteurs Urbain et des
Transports
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PROTOTIPPEE           Projet Pilote de Travaux d 'Infrastructures Communautaires et de
Renforcement des Capacits
PROTTIPPEE            Programme Triennal de Travaux d'Jntr&t Public pour la Promotion de
l 'Entreprise et de / 'Emploi
TA                    Technical Assistance
TIPPEE                Travaux d 'lnteret Public pour la Promotion de I 'Entreprise et de I 'Emploi
TOR                   Terms of Reference
TU                    Technical Unit
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Serge Michailof
Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader: Patrick Canel



THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................3
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by  the  project ........................................................3
2.  Main  sector issues  and  Government strategy ...............................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................5
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components ..........................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................8
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................9
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..........................................................9
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                              10
1.  Project alternatives  considered  and  reasons for rejection ............................................ 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......... 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................... 11
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 12
5.  Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project .............................................................. 12
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                       12
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                         12
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                        13
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                        13
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                                    13
5. Social ................................................................                                                                           14
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                                         14
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                                           16
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                       16
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                                                         16
2. Critical risks .........................................................                                                                          17
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                                                          18



G. Conditions for loan effectiveness .........................                   18
H. Readiness for Implementation .18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .19
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Description of Project Components
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Gabon at a Glance
Map IBRD 29420



THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 07
Date: July 28, 1998                                            Task Team Leader: Patrick Canel
Country Director: Serge Michailof                              Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: GA-PE-35626             Sector: Urban              Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: LIL                                        Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes   [    No
Project Financing Data                     [X] Loan           [  Credit         [  Guarantee         [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5.0 million/SDR3.71 million FRF 30.4 million
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
Proposed terms:                               []   Multicurrency          [X] Single currency: French francs
Grace period (years): 5                 [     Standard Variable   []  Fixed                [X]   PIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, less any waiver
.......................................................... .............................................................................................................................
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                    Local                Foreign               Total
Central Government                                2.3                                        2.3
Local Government                                 0.1                     -                  0.1
IBRD                                       0.3                   4.7                 5.0
Total                                     2.7                    4.7                 7.4
Borrower:       The Gabonese Republic
Guarantor:      N/A
Responsible agencies:
Lead Government Agency:         Ministry of Planning
Project Implementation Unit:   PAPSUT
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998              1999         2000         2001
Annual   0.7           1.6          1.7          0.9
Cumulative   0.7           2.3          4.0           5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date:     10/30/1998
Expected closing date:          12/31/2001



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the proposed project is to design and test, in selected poor urban areas,
management methods and procedures for the carrying out of small scale urban infrastructure
works, and to disseminate information on such methods and procedures, aiming at strengthening
the private construction sector and increasing employment in the said sector.
The proposed project is expected to assist the Government of Gabon (GOG) in designing,
testing, and adjusting methodologies and approaches to facilitate the involvement of private local
firms in the execution of such schemes and maximize their impact on the urban employment of the
poor. To this end, the proposed project will help the Government of Gabon to: (a) design and
disseminate appropriate technologies, procurement and contracting methods for labor-based works
among main local stakeholders (local NGOs, municipalities and technical ministries in particular);
(b) test these approaches through the upgrading of community infrastructure in four poor
neighborhoods of Gabon's main cities (Libreville, Port-Gentil and Franceville); (c) design and test
appropriate evaluation and supervision methods for the economic, social, and environmental
impacts of the proposed infrastructure schemes and civil works in general; and (d) prepare a
program aimed at creating a conducive institutional and regulatory environment for the sustainable
development of local private small and medium-scale enterprises in the construction sector.
At the end of the project, it is expected that all the main actors in the public and private
sectors will have the know-how and tools to replicate such schemes, mainly under local sources of
funding, and will be able to monitor their impact on employment and private sector development.
Appropriate contract management procedures --to be taken over by technical ministries, main
cities, and autonomous public or private agencies acting on behalf of public entities in charge of
infrastructure works-- will have been designed, tested and adjusted according to the lessons drawn
from a pilot community infrastructure upgrading scheme included in the proposed project. Draft
legislation, creating a more conducive legal and institutional environment for managing such
schemes and involving main private stakeholders, will be ready for approval. To sustain the
involvement of the private sector in such works, a three-year project implementation plan (PIP) of
small infrastructure schemes will be identified across sectors (health, education, transport and
agriculture, mainly). A broader and longer-term program, PROTTIPPEE (Programme Triennal
de Travaux d'lnteret Public pour la Promotion de V'Entreprise et de 1'Emploi), supporting the
actual implementation and extension of this project, will be in place.
The project contributes to addressing two broader issues that are key to the success of the
Government of Gabon's macroeconomic performance: private sector development and employment
generation. The proposed project and the program that it will be supporting, mostly local capacity
building, would also have a major impact in enhancing the quality and efficiency of public
expenditures with regards to the infrastructure sector. The infrastructure sector includes roads,
schools, clinics, feeder roads and urban roads, in particular, and accounts for more than 50% of the
PIP.
Relevant performance indicators for the pilot project include:
*  Percentage of entities in charge of public infrastructure works (Maitres d'ouvrages)
informed and trained in TIPPEE (Travaux d'Interet Public pour la Promotion de



Page 3
I'Entreprise et de l'Emploi) methods for contracting out said works to the private
sector.
*  Percentage of works achieved through the TIPPEE methods among those works
potentially achievable through the TIPPEE methods (by the Maftres d'ouvrages
trained to use TIPPEE methods).
*  Percentage of Microprojects completed during the Project execution.
*  Number of similar Neighborhood Projects (in addition to the four Neighborhoods
included in the Project), initiated or prepared before Project completion.
*  Percentage of contribution by Municipalities and Communities to the costs of
Microprojects.
*  Status of the private sector firms that have been awarded contracts during the Project,
as to their volume of activities, number of permanent staff, investments in equipment,
etc...
-  Percentage of costs of works carried out during the Project consisting of salary
payments.
D  Percentage of said salary payments to workers previously unemployed, including such
workers who are members of the Communities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (Annex 1):
CAS document under preparation     Last strategy outlined in the ESW: P-6361; June 21, 1994
The proposed project supports the CAS goal of making public expenditures more efficient,
more supportive of private sector development, and more oriented to poverty alleviation.
Addressing urban poverty issues in Gabon implies a policy shift to reallocate public expenditures
to support the urban areas, in particular, to improve living conditions in the poorer urban
neighborhoods. This, in turn, requires: (i) promoting sustainable infrastructure schemes, and (ii)
adopting more decentralized and participative identification and planning procedures, lower-cost
and more appropriate technologies, and procurement and management procedures that facilitate the
involvement of the local private sector in the execution of public works and services.
The proposed project initiates approaches for PIP preparation, and tests mechanisms for
its implementation which directly contribute to the CAS' goal in the urban sector by: (i) initiating a
bottom-up approach to planning and financing infrastructure upgrading schemes in poorer
neighborhoods; (ii) further testing and scaling-up approaches to the implementation of such
schemes in a manner that is conducive to the development of local contractors in the construction
industry; (iii) maximizing the impact of infrastructure works on poverty reduction; and (iv)
establishing a cross-sector infrastructure PIP reserving the allocation of civil works, to be
contracted out, to local SMEs in the construction sector.



Page 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main urban sector issues are inadequate urban management and the subsequent
development of urban settlements that lack basic infrastructure and services. Lack of or poor
access and transit roads, and inadequate drainage and sanitation services, in particular, make living
conditions difficult especially during the long rainy season that characterizes this equatorial
country. Gabon's population is around one million, of which approximately 60% live in three
cities, Libreville, Port-Gentil and Franceville. A large percentage of the urban population lives in
non-serviced neighborhoods. In a relatively rich country by African standards (GDP is about
$5,000 per capita), improving living conditions in poor neighborhoods is a major poverty issue and
should be given first priority.
Insufficient central and local government attention and commitment to poverty alleviation
in the past, excessive central government budget allocations and high-cost infrastructure projects in
the transport sector, too little public investment in urban areas as compared to the rest of the
country, and poor institutional coordination in the management of the urban sector, have prevented
the public sector from efficiently addressing the issue. Despite its highly urbanized population,
Gabon's budget allocations to urban infrastructure have been about one tenth of the allocation for
the construction of inter-urban and regional roads. These problems have been significantly
compounded by: (i) insufficient budget allocations for recurrent costs (Operation and Maintenance
(O&M)) at both the central and local levels to support the infrastructure implemented; and (ii) the
inability of beneficiaries to support the O&M of such costly infrastructure schemes.
In the long term, upstream sector policy reforms could prevent further development of
urban settlements in areas without the supporting infrastructure services. This can be achieved, in
particular, through more efficient land management, more appropriate land development and
housing finance schemes, enforcement of appropriate urban zoning and construction regulations,
and adequate and efficient urban taxation. Such policy reforms are under preparation through
various donor-supported initiatives (in particular: AFD (Agence Fran9aise de D6veloppement),
housing finance and CIDA (Canadian International Development Agency), land management). An
urban sector strategy to integrate these policy reforms is under preparation through the ongoing
IBRD financed pre-investment project (Transport TA, LN 3777-GA), and is expected to be
finished in June 1998. The adoption and implementation of these reforms should, in the longer-
term, improve access to infrastructure services.
In the short term, GOG is eager to address urban poverty by immediately and visibly
improving living conditions in settlements where access to infrastructure and services is
particularly poor, and has been deteriorating due to the recent economic crisis. GOG's awareness
has been raised by a recent IBRD's financed poverty assessment, and by the civil unrest and social
turmoil that occurred in the 1990s in the poorer neighborhoods of Libreville. GOG is now
conscious that dealing efficiently and effectively with the issue requires targeting support to these
communities. Upgrading basic infrastructure in these communities would allow easier access to
the neighborhoods in order to improve service delivery.
Gabon benefits from substantial public finance and human resources at the central and
local government levels (e.g., the proposed IBRD loan is about one tenth of the current budget of
the City of Libreville). Achieving significant improvements requires essentially: (a) shifting some
existing human and financial resources towards smaller infrastructure schemes that have a higher
impact on poverty alleviation; (b) coordinating efforts by the communities and by the municipal



Page 5
and central governments to finance and implement small infrastructure upgrading schemes, and
ensure the related O&M; and (c) ensuring ownership by main stakeholders through a bottom-up
approach. It also involves a learning process on how to identify and design complex interventions
using only existing local human and financial resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues. Through its pilot infrastructure scheme, the project will address the short-
term priority issues in the urban sector, i.e., the access of poor neighborhoods to basic
infrastructure and services.
Strategic choices. Technologies, procurement and contract management methods, to be
finalized and implemented for the execution of civil works included in the project, will maximize
the impact of the civil works on employment generation and of private contractors development on
the construction industry.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
Component A: Capacity strengthening of key stakeholders (US$ 551,039)
Category: Institutional building
This first component comprises all the technical assistance and support necessary for the
implementation of the project. As the project is based on the use of a TIPPEE (labor-based public
works to be contracted out to small- and medium-size enterprises) technology, this component will
prepare the key stakeholders for the use of such a methodology and will clarify the processes to be
established to efficiently achieve project goals.
This component should lead to the:
(a)    preparation and dissemination of TIPPEE documents which would allow for
replication of this type of project by public entities in charge of infrastructure
works and for their application to other sectors;
(b)   training of entities in charge of infrastructure works in TIPPEE procedures and
guidelines; and
(c)    NGO training in TIPPEE procedures to qualify NGOs to technically prepare
TIPPEE projects and follow their social impact in the field.
Towards this end, local NGOs, municipal technical units and contractors involved in the
pilot infrastructure upgrading will be provided with technical assistance, on-site training sessions,
and logistical support.



Page 6
Component B: Pilot community-based infrastructure schemes (US$ 5,568,569)
Category: Physical/training/institutional building
The component aims to provide a test for the TIPPEE approach in four under-serviced
neighborhoods of the three main cities of Gabon (Libreville, Port-Gentil, Franceville). This
operation will replicate an experimental pilot operation for labor-based road paving, which was
successfully completed in the neighborhood of Avea (Libreville) under an IBRD financed pre-
investment project (Transport Technical Assistance Project, LN 3777-GA).1 The component
further develops the concept of neighborhood infrastructure upgrading from the Avea case in
Libreville, by introducing, in addition to road paving, community-based sub-projects in
infrastructure that target improvements in the selected neighborhoods, with an emphasis on
sanitation.
This component includes the following sub-components:
(a)    Access and transit roads:
In the preparation phase of the project, feasible access and transit roads work in poor
neighborhoods has been identified. The selection of neighborhoods has been based on
social criteria: the least developed areas with the highest density and the poorest population
have been selected.
This sub-component includes the completion of about six kilometers of paved roads in four
targeted areas (see detailed description in Annex 2, pages 3, 4, and 5). These roads will
improve access to and transit through the selected areas; the works will be executed by
small local construction firms. The technology for paving roads (concrete blocks), and
procedures for procurement and contract management will maximize the impact of the
works on employment generation. Local contractors will be urged to give priority to hiring
unskilled workers within the communities where such works are taking place.
(b)    Community-based development plans:
The implementation of neighborhood projects that complement the above access and transit
roads. The projects would result from an active discussion within each concerned
community and preparation of a Community Development Plan (CDP), in close
consultation with the municipalities and with the assistance of local NGOs, if necessary.
In each selected area (Avea in Libreville, "Quartier Sud" and "Balise" in Port-Gentil, and
Ongali-Epila in Franceville), CDPs will include, in particular:
-  the location of existing amenities in the neighborhood;
-  the location of the proposed infrastructure sub-projects (see the following
sub-component);
-  a snmplified circulation plan for the area, taking into consideration the
amenities and roads to be constructed in the proposed project;
For the purposes of the present document and project, 'labor-based' means civil works based on
manual work rather than dependent on labor-saving technologies and/or equipment.



Page 7
-  a detailed description of operation and maintenance procedures for each
infrastructure sub-project; and
-  an assessment of the social and environmental impacts of the sub-projects
(this assessment will be carried out according to the guidelines included in the
implementation manual).
(c)    Neighborhood amenities (micro-projects):
This component aims to complete micro-projects to complement road works in the selected
neighborhoods. As specified in the implementation manual, in order to be eligible, micro-
projects will have:
(i)    to be integrated in a CDP as defined above. CDPs will be established in a
participative manner with the community and will have to be cleared by the
Municipality.
(ii)   to be described in detail in the Community Development Agreements
(CDAs) (one for each selected area). Signed by the concerned Municipality and
the Borrower, CDAs will be reviewed by the Bank; they will include, inter alia, a
description of how each infrastructure sub-project will be implemented, operated
and maintained.
(iii)   to be estimated to cost less than US$50,000; and
(iv)   to be on the following short list of small public infrastructure:
-      footpaths and small bridges;
-      basic improvements (mainly in sanitation) of existing facilities;
-      playgrounds and public gardens;
-      community halls for local associations;
-      public lighting;
-      waste management facilities;
-      public latrines; and
-      taxi or bus stops.
This list is tentative. A final list of eligible labor-based small public
infrastructure (TIPPEE) will be established after the first year of project execution
and will be subject to prior review by the Bank.



Page 8
Component C: Project monitoring and evaluation (US$ 633,303)
Category: Project management
As a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), this project is essentially experimental.
Therefore, it must be monitored and evaluated at each step. This component aims to monitor and
assess the project throughout its execution. It includes:
(a)    Impact assessments
Environmental and socio-economic impact assessments of the project.
(b)    TIPPEE contract monitoring
An integrated financial and technical management system for TIPPEE contracts that
should allow the lender, public contractor, head foreman and accountant to be informed of
the financial situation and progress of civil works, included in B (a) and B (b).
(c)    Audits
Technical audits of works completed and financial audit of the project.
Component D: Support for a longer-term program of institutional reforms (PROTTIPPEE)
(US$ 622,757)
Category: Institutional building/Management
The component will support a broader program aimed at creating a more conducive
environmnent in the public sector for the involvement of the private sector in the execution of public
works. It will assist, in particular, the central and local governments in the replication of
community infrastructure upgrading schemes through the bottom-up preparation of a related three-
year rolling Priority Infrastructure Plan (PIP). It will also assist the GOG in establishing a PIP for
labor-based infrastructure across various sectors (transport, education, health and agriculture),
based on an increase in the share of the related public works made accessible to local contractors.
The component will include:
(a)    public infrastructure expenditures reviews across sectors (annual);
(b)    public procurement reform;
(c)    development strategy for the construction sector;
(d)    PIP-TIPPEE preparat.on and feasibility studies (2001-2003); and
(e)    engineering studies for PIP-TIPPEE (Phase 1: 2001).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project indirectly supports Gabon's ongoing decentralization policy by strengthening:
(i) municipal capacity to adequately identify, implement and manage projects in poorer
neighborhoods, and within the communities themselves; and (ii) the central govermnent's ability to
match local resource mobilization. In addition, by involving small contractors in the execution of
public works, the project is also in line with current policy discussions regarding the privatization
of inkfastructure and service delivery.
The proposed project will be a major building block for the broader PROTliPPEE
program to promote local enterprises in the execution of public works using approaches that



Page 9
maximize the respective impact on employment (see section A: Project Development Objectives
and detailed description of Component D in Annex 2). The program involves a thorough review of
procurement and contract management methods by the public sector (including the local
governments), as a key policy condition for creating an environment conducive to involving local
private entrepreneurs in the execution of public works. Works covered by PROTOTIPPEE
include infrastructure works in urban and rural areas, financed under central and local
governments budgets in various sectors such as transport, agriculture, education, and health, such
as construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of urban, interurban and feeder roads, schools,
health centers, storm water drains, market stalls, and lorry parks. The program is to be supported
by the donor community, specifically the African Development Bank (ADB), the Agence
Francaise de Developpement (AFD) and the European Community. The coordinating agency for
the program is the Ministry of Planning and its technical secretariat will be PAPSUT (Programme
d 'Ajustement et de Planification des Secteurs Urbain et des Transports).
3. Benefits and target population:
The major benefit of the proposed project will be the enhancement of the ability of the
various stakeholders to efficiently and effectively manage labor-based civil works with a special
emphasis on upgrading infrastructure in poorer neighborhoods. This would involve strengthening:
(i) the ability of the beneficiaries to initiate, implement, and ensure the operation and maintenance
of infrastructure micro-projects with the highest positive impact on their living conditions; (ii) the
ability of local NGOs to assist communities in the preparation of such projects; (iii) the ability of
municipalities to work with and assist communities to implement such upgrading; (iv) the capacity
of the central and local governments to support upgrading schemes and to involve local
entrepreneurs in their completion; and (v) the ability of local contractors to use more efficient and
appropriate technologies and to hire the local workforce. The project will also help build
consensus among stakeholders, and between stakeholders and beneficiaries.
The final beneficiaries of the infrastructure schemes included in component B will be the
communities targeted for infrastructure upgrading, as expected benefits are mainly related to the
improvement of their living conditions.  As these are among the poorest, both in terms of
infrastructure and environmental conditions, paving the access and transit roads is expected to
provide better access for services delivery, particularly during the rainy season. The residents are
expected to experience a positive impact, including a significant reduction in the time currently
necessary to walk to taxis or other transportation, as required for daily tasks. The construction of
roadside drains is expected to reduce stagnant water, possibly contributing to a decrease in water-
related diseases. The community-based micro-projects will reinforce such benefits. In particular,
the combination of improved physical access and micro-projects that improve sanitation should
support improved environmental and, eventually, health conditions. Shorter-term benefits can be
expected from the on-site hiring of unskilled workers during the execution of the civil works.
Appropriate methodologies for assessing the social and economic benefits of the infrastructure
works will be developed locally and implemented during project execution.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Ministry of Planning (MP) will be the lead Government agency and IBRD's
counterpart for the project. The MP will provide policy direction, overall project supervision and
technical assistance to project beneficiaries through a central project implementation unit
(PAPSUT (Programme d'Ajustement et de Planification des Secteurs Urbain et des Transports)).



Page 10
As the Ministry in charge of the PIP preparation and donors' coordination, the Ministry of
Planning will head a Steering Committee, COC (Comite Interministeriel pour I 'Orientation et la
Coordination) to supervise this project and other activities included in PROTTIPPEE. The COC
will include, inter alia, the Ministry of Interior and Local Governments, the Ministry of Town
Planning and Urban Affairs, and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport.
PAPSUT, currently the implementation unit for the ongoing Transport TA/IBRD-LN.
3777-GA Project, will be the implementation agency of the proposed project (PROTOTIPPEE)
and the technical secretariat for the program (PROTTIPPEE). PAPSUT will be the implementing
agency for all the components. It will, inter alia, procure labor-based road works (component B)
and consultants and goods included in these components and provide the municipalities and
communities with technical assistance. On behalf of the Ministry of Planning, who is in charge of
preparing the State Investment Budget (PIP), PAPSUT will be responsible for the preparation of a
PIP specific to labor-based infrastructure and for the auditing, monitoring and impact evaluation of
the proposed project. To that end, PAPSUT will administer a project account for counterpart
funds and a special account for IBRD funds. Existing Technical Units (TUs) in the project
municipalities (Libreville, Port-Gentil and Franceville) will be involved in the implementation of
component B of the proposed project (see Annex 2, page 7). Municipalities will designate a
contact person in the TUs to liaise with PAPSUT on neighborhood projects and the management of
project related civil engineering contracts.
PAPSUT will use the Financial Management System that has been set up for the
Transportation Project (TA). The accounting of the new project will be completely separate from
that of the ongoing project (TA). Considering the specificity of component B, the accounting
system will have to be able to distinguish working expenses, including contract management
expenses, from the cost of the physical works. The existing system will have to be improved. It
should enable the user to manage works contracts, one at a time, and to classify the different
contractual and accounting vouchers. This procedure will be tested throughout the project and will
be made available for public contractors.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The option of carrying out major infrastructure rehabilitation in selected sites was ruled
out since this kind of abrupt change (from no infrastructure to a fully serviced area with roads,
street lighting, social facilities, etc.) has been shown to dramatically alter the social structure of the
neighborhood (see IBRD's first urban projects in Senegal and Cameroon): once the area is fully
serviced, it becomes subject to speculation, and former occupants tend to sell their plots to resettle
in other under-serviced neighborhoods.
Pilot infrastructure upgrading with social testing (community development) but without
technical innovation (appropriate and labor-based technologies, and local contractors for works
execution) could have been a valid alternative. However, technical innovations like labor-based
road paving in Gabon had already been successfully tested in Avea. Combining a proven technical
approach with social innovation, in order to make both infrastructure standards and technology
affordable to project beneficiaries and accessible to small contractors and unskilled construction
workers, tapped the advantage of combining replicability and sustainability. This approach could



Page 1 1
increase the sense of ownership by main stakeholders, and facilitate the replication of the project in
a sustainable manner, that is, without assistance from the donor community.
The project could have included some technical support to AGATIP (Agence Gabonaise
de Travaux d'1nteret Public), an agency created by the GOG in 1997 to manage civil works
contracts with local entrepreneurs on behalf of the State. Originally inspired by AGETIP Senegal,
this agency turned out to be a parastatal, with a legal set up that was not acceptable to the Bank.
During the appraisal mission, GOG (Minister of Finance, Minister of Planning) informed the
Bank's team that: (i) the government's disbursements against AGATIP budget allocations had been
"frozen"; and (ii) civil servants seconded to AGATIP had been instructed to return to their former
positions in the ministries.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned): (Transport Sector Technical Assistance Projectfinanced by the Bank in
1994, which had a pilot urban component.)
Sector issue               Project        Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed proects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Transportation               Transport Sector TA          S                 S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (ffighly Unsatisfactory)
The last form 590 (dated 12/11/97) for the urban component of the Transport Sector TA project
indicates that (i) all urban works have been completed; and (ii) it is clear that the works have
resulted in major improvements in living conditions for the residents of the district of Avea, and
have also stimulated economic activity along the street (1.6 km) which has been paved.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of the Avea pilot operation was largely influenced by the combined labor-based
urban roads rehabilitation and community-based infrastructure upgrading works successfully
implemented in the neighborhood of Menontin (Cotonou, Benin), under IDA financing
(IDA Cr. 2338).  Gabon officials and civil engineers unanimously decided to develop and
implement the Avea project after visiting Menontin.
International experience suggests that key conditions for project success and sustainability
are: (a) the sense of ownership acquired by beneficiaries through their early involvement in project
selection and financing; and (b) affordable infrastructure standards and appropriate technologies,
meaning in many cases local materials, human resources and construction enterprises, as well as
local engineering, technical and social assistance. The communities contribution to the financing of
sub-projects, 10% of micro-projects costs, and their involvement in the preliminary stages of
micro-project planning should ensure community ownership. The choice of local technologies and
materials and appropriate infrastructure standards, will make the proposed schemes affordable to
stakeholders and ensure their implementation based entirely on available local human and financial
resources.



Page 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower has illustrated its commitment to the project by (i) organizing study trips to
Benin, focusing on labor-based infrastructure rehabilitation in poorer neighborhoods; (ii) promptly
preparing all preliminary studies to identify potential project sites, estimate infrastructure costs
(based on the Avea operation), and earmark counterpart funding in advance; and (iii) successfully
completing the pilot Avea operation. It also held a participatory workshop (in N'Toum) for main
stakeholders and donors on project design in early 1997.  A report was prepared by the
Government hired facilitator, who also happens to be the facilitator for the preparation of an urban
sector strategy. The report is available in the project files. The Government sent a delegation led
by the Commissaire General au Plan to Washington, D.C. in April 1998 to attend technical
discussions between the African Development Bank and the World Bank on standard contract
documents and procurement methods for civil works. These documents are the bulk of the
implementation manual produced by the Borrower and judged acceptable to the Bank.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has: (i) acquired considerable experience in promoting bottom-up and
decentralized approaches to community development and planning, especially through the
establishment of social funds; (ii) acquired knowledge of key conditions to involve small and
medium-scale local enterprises in public works through AGETIP projects; (iii) become familiar
with community upgrading projects and developed such projects worldwide with success, in
particular with the Kampung Improvement Programs (KIPs) in Indonesia; and (iv) promoted labor-
based technologies in various infrastructure projects. The Bank is, therefore, in a position to
combine these approaches within the same project. The donor community currently expects the
Bank to initiate this type of operation and is ready to follow up if the test is positive. In Gabon, the
African Development Bank and the Agence Fran,aise de Developpement have expressed interest
in taking over and expanding such an approach, following the Bank's experience in other social
infiastructure (schools and dispensaries for ADB, drainage systems for AFD).
The rationale for the Bank's support through a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is
that consensus of stakeholders for carrying out such schemes using approaches that are neither
easily nor widely accepted in Gabon (labor-based technologies, local materials, appropriate
infrastructure standards, and involvement of beneficiaries in project planning and design, and small
contractors in public works execution). Moving toward such acceptance requires demonstration,
on a larger scale, in a more comprehensive and integrated approach to neighborhood infrastructure
upgrading.  Without the Bank's support, Gabon is not likely to experiment with such
methodologies and approaches.  In addition, the Avea operation, although significant and
successful, would not have been sufficient to perpetuate their adoption.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Only one component (component B) could have been subject to detailed economic analysis
but none has in fact been carried out. One of the main objectives of the project is to test its
economic effectiveness to decide whether to pursue such an approach to improve the living
conditions of the poor in urban neighborhoods. The audit, monitoring and evaluation component
will analyze the economic and social benefits of the project, ex post, and will draw lessons for
further operations. A baseline assessment of living conditions in the neighborhoods targeted by the



Page 13
project will be done at the very beginning of the project. An ex-post evaluation will be done three
years later, upon project completion, and a comparison of the two will allow for an evaluation of
the outcomes and benefits of the project.
Cost estimates for road works, to be included in the proposed project have been completed
on the basis of the actual costs of the works procured on a local competitive basis and completed in
Avea. An ex-post evaluation of the cost effectiveness of the Avea operation concluded that labor-
based infrastructure upgrading was cost-effective in Gabon's economic and social context
characterized by higher wages for unskilled workers than neighboring countries, and by high prices
for construction materials (sand and cement) and equipment. Although the cost of this operation
was high by African standards, it is consistent with conditions in Gabon and 50% lower than the
cost of asphalted roads in overall terms (construction and maintenance).
2. Financial: NPV=n/a; FRR=n/a
Fiscal impact: too small to be assessed.
3. Technical:
The project will scale up the use of concrete blocks for the pavement of access and transit
roads to be carried out in the neighborhoods selected for pilot infrastructure upgrading (component
B). This technology has many strategic advantages, in particular, its maintenance cost is very low
(no periodic maintenance and routine maintenance is limited to the manual replacement of concrete
blocks) which is affordable for the communities; its construction is very labor-intensive and
unskilled workers can be employed to produce and lay concrete blocks. Because it is labor-based,
small and medium-scale enterprises are able to put together tenders that do not involve heavy
equipment. This technology was successfully tested in the neighborhood of Avea, under difficult
topographic conditions, and the local enterprises are becoming familiar with it. During this test,
and given the low number of local enterprises with equipment required to produce acceptable
concrete blocks, a specific and local competitive bidding distinct from road pavement, per se, was
put together for the production of concrete blocks. The possibility of including concrete blocks in
the bidding documents for road pavement will be further assessed in the proposed project.
4. Institutional:
The existing Project Implementation Unit (PAPSUT) for the ongoing investment project
(Transport TA) has shown its capacity to manage a variety of activities including strategic studies,
engineering studies, workshops, training sessions, seminars, conferences, press conferences, and
technical assistance to local governments. Its performance has been satisfactory in terms of cost
effectiveness and efficiency; it is now experienced in handling procurement of consultants, goods
and works according to Bank guidelines. For the purpose of the implementation of the proposed
project it is adequately staffed.
PAPSUT will be responsible primarily for providing the main stakeholders involved (the
beneficiaries, the NGOs, the local governments, the small contractors) with the necessary support
and short-term technical assistance for the execution of community infrastructure upgrading
components. In addition, PAPSUT will directly handle the execution of the following two
components: PIP preparation for labor-based infrastructure works and project auditing, monitoring
and evaluation.



Page 14
Short-term technical assistance will be needed, especially, in the following areas:
* coordination of works carried out by several enterprises at the same site;
* establishment and implementation of appropriate methodologies for social and
economic assessment and impact of the project; and
* assistance to the NGOs to carry out community planning, beneficiaries assessments and
advocacy planning.
5. Social:
The implementation of the Avea operation has demonstrated the capacity of: (a) the City of
Libreville to manage infrastructure works; (b) seven small local private contractors to carry out
road works correctly; and (c) one local NGO (Jeune Chambre Economique) to assist the
communities with community advocacy. The design of the proposed project has benefited from
Avea's results, as well as from the poverty assessment carried out by IBRD in 1995 and several
other studies and experiences related to living conditions in the shantytowns of Libreville, Port-
Gentil and Franceville. The assessments indicated that in Gabon: (a) over 50% of the population
live in the two major cities, 20% have incomes below the level required to meet basic needs, and
an unestimated but large share of the population of Libreville lives in under-serviced areas; (b)
poverty reduction requires: (i) reallocating public funds to more direct and targeted interventions
for the poor; (ii) prioritizing urban infrastructure and services that are key to improving living and
health conditions of the poor; and (iii) improving the involvement of the non-governmental sectors,
including the private sector, in the execution of targeted operations.
TIhe 1995 poverty assessment highlighted isolation and unhealthy living conditions
resulting from, inter alia, flooding due to drainage problems to be respectively the first and second
concems in the urban shantytowns. The assessment showed that: (a) public health indicators are
worse in the shantytowns, with high morbidity rates particularly due to parasitic and infectious
diseases that are intrinsically connected to the combination of inadequate drainage and sanitation in
poor settlements subject to heavy rains, and inadequate access to safe water and health services;
and (b) unemployment is high and on the rise, particularly for unskilled workers. In addition to the
assessments, several former project-related reports have raised the concems of community
residents regarding inadequate, and often road-related, drainage and erosion problems. The
assessments and studies indicate the importance of improving these conditions in order to reduce
poverty.
Project design has incorporated these concems by targeting shantytowns and prioritizing road work
and related drainage, while developing small local firms and providing for community
participation. In addition, the Project and the Borrower have carefully selected the sites for
infrastructure upgrading in order to avoid resettlement (see Section 6 below), while supporting
assessments to identify and carry out mitigation of this and other potential social risks in follow-up
projects.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: B
The project was classified as category B, due to it being mostly capacity building but
including infrastructure works such as paving of existing community earth roads and construction
and rehabilitation of small-scale community facilities (micro-projects) in the four selected areas.
Major negative environmental impacts are not anticipated as a result of the project itself nor of the
construction activities, considering that: (i) the project will pave existing roads; and (ii) the



Page 15
approval of each micro-project will be subject to specific environmental analysis that will be
carried out by community-supporting NGO(s). A brief assessment of road-related environmental
degradation has been prepared as part of a larger consultative road assessment. The assessment
indicated that: (i) environmental degradation, such as extensive erosion, has been caused by
inadequate paving and drainage of existing roads; and (ii) the potential for an increase in erosion is
high, threatening neighboring housing. Project preparation, bidding and implementation, therefore,
incorporate specific measures (as part of terms of reference (TORs), bidding documents and
contracts) to avoid negative environmental impacts and improve currently inadequate
environmental conditions, such as: a) environmental and social criteria to avoid environmental
degradation; and b) environmentally safe construction methods and techniques. The assessment of
micro-projects will be carried out according to a simplified environmental evaluation guide based
on methodology specific to small infrastructure, prepared with the assistance of IBRD's
environmental department in the Africa Region.3
The criteria for the selection of the roads to be paved included certification that roads and
surrounding safety areas and rights of way, as well as applicable micro-projects, would in no way
interfere with, or cause either short- or long-term degradation of environmental conditions or imply
resettlement of houses or any other household or commercial-related on-going activities. In
addition, the project will provide for adequate road drainage, as well as avoid and correct
inadequate neighborhood design-related roadside drainage, which would eliminate current
environmental degradation, caused by inadequate drainage. Micro-projects will require NGO
assessment and certification that environmental conditions are improved, and that no environmental
negative impact would result from either related implementation or construction. In addition, some
micro-projects will target and support correction of current environmental degradation.
Finally, the materials used in the project are mostly cement and sand, the former being
produced in Gabon and the latter through the dredging of its ports. Project requirements are not
sufficient to increase current production of either material. In particular, the production of cement
in Gabon is well above consumption, and the project will not cause an increase in production or
otherwise increase eventual waste-derived pollution related to such industry. It is, however,
recommended that any extensive use of cement and sand in subsequent projects incorporate such
analysis and adequate provisions, to prevent environmental and resource degradation.
2 See project fles: Projet de Travaux d 'Int6ret Public Pour la Promotion de L 'Emploi, Rapport de
Mission; Bernard Peccoud, September 1997.
3 World Bank, unpublished paper: Guide pour la realisation des etudes d 'impact environnemental des
travauxATETIP; Vincent Follea, October 1996.



Page 16
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Ident./Prep.   Implement.    Operation
Beneficiaries/Communities:
residents/workers/road users           CON/COL    COL              COL
Small entrepreneurs                      IS            COL           N/A
Municipal Technical Units                 CON           COL          COL
Involved local NGOs                      CON/COL        COL          N/A
b. Other key stakeholders:
Ministry of Planning/PAPSUT               COL          COL           N/A
Steering Committee (COC)                 CON           IS            N/A
Other public sector agencies             IS            IS            IS
Donors                                   CON           CON           IS/CON
Key:  IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
In ternns of project outcomes, sustainability will mainly depend on prospects for key
stakeholders to be further involved in similar schemes. Replicability of such schemes is, therefore,
critical to the overall issue of sustainability. The bottom-up approach initiated in the proposed
project should create the right conditions for easy replication. After the project, NGOs, in order to
generate their own source of activity as advocate planners on behalf of the communities, are
expected to pressure local governments to target poor communities by allocating appropriate
budget resources and to match community contributions (in kind or financial). Local governments,
in turn, are expected to pressure central government to match communal participation in
infrastructure upgrading in the neighborhoods, if necessary. As far as small contractors are
concerned, the replication and expansion of community infrastructure upgrading schemes is
expected to sustain the activity of those contractors who would be involved in the proposed project.
Moreover, the PIP for labor-based works in infrastructure across sectors will increase their level of
activity over the years, and further ensure their potential involvement in public works execution.
In terms of project outputs, sustainability refers mainly to maintenance for the roads and to
operation of community infrastructure.  It is expected that the participative planning and
implementation process, to be carried out under this project, will facilitate structuring of the
community around common concerns, and ensure a sense of ownership for community
infrastructure. The recurrent costs, for the roads paved during the project, are low due to the
project's choice of technology and adjustment of infrastructure standards to the level that
communities can afford. The maintenance costs for roads paved with concrete blocks is negligible:
it involves the rare replacement of concrete blocks, which can be done manually by the community.
Roadside drains need very occasional repair, if any at all, if they are well designed and constructed.
In the case of Gabon, they may need to be cleaned manually, twice a year before the rainy seasons,
due to the lack of adequate waste collection. The magnitude of the cleaning could be considerably
reduced if such collection was organized at the neighborhood level. The project will support the
preparation of community development plans by the communities, to ensure that such



Page 17
arrangements, if not already in place, will be organized as a condition for micro-project selection
and financing.
In fact, the main question arises after project completion--when the project implementation
unit (PAPSUT) disappears-- whether other public actors including the Municipal Technical Units
will be able to take over PAPSUT's responsibilities in terms of procurement and contract
management in a credible manner in the eyes of the communities. That question is valid and
relevant; it has to do with the broader issue of governance which the democratization process
initiated in Gabon is intended to address, with the implementation of local government reform and
decentralization.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Insufficient sense of community and no consensus    S       Local NGOs will be assigned to
among the primary beneficiaries to be involved in           identify  community  leaders  and
the project.                                                associations which  are willing  to
improve living conditions in their
neighborhoods.
Non-transparent procurement of public works and     S        The project will include a review of
inadequate contract management procedures in the            national procurement procedures.
public sector.
Absence of willingness of the local NGOs to do     S        Information sessions on the role and
advocacy planning in urban neighborhoods.                   prospects of activities for NGOs in the
urban sector will be organized.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Contractors do not have the absorptive capacity to  S       The proposed project includes on site
execute contracts in a timely and technically correct        short-term  technical assistance  to
fashion.                                                     contractors.
Difficult for central and local governments to               The project will include assistance for a
cooperate and coordinate their efforts towards              PIP  preparation  for  community
community infrastructure upgrading.                          infrastructure upgrading schemes based
on a bottom-up approach that will
leave no choice for local and central
governments than to match the
expectations and resource mobilization
of the communities.
Communities do not have the capacity to prepare     S       The  project includes  support for
community development plans.                                community   planning   by   the
beneficiaries through a local NGO.
Overall Risk Rating                                S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Ownership and sharing of the political benefits of the project between the Borrower, local
governments involved, and the communities, may become a controversial subject, especially during
local or presidential elections. On-site explanations of the role played by each stakeholder and
appropriate information through the media (radio, TV and newspapers) will be necessary at the
beginning of the project. These aspects will be handled by the implementation agency and
provisions for carrying out such activities are to be included in component C.
During implementation of the Avea pilot project (LN 3777-GA), some concern was
expressed in the local newspaper with regard to the use of labor-based technologies as a
contemporary form of slavery (see article in Project Files). In fact, the controversy did not last
long and the likeliness of it reappearing is negligible. Public works always involve unskilled
workers recruited daily at the construction site, even in developed countries. In public appearances
or press conferences, careful use of correct terminology (avoiding "labor-intensive") will be
sufficient to deal with the issue. In addition, beneficiaries in the upgraded communities include
immigrants. Concern that public money is directed to poor areas where immigrants live has been
expressed during the Avea operation, and could re-emerge during the proposed project. In-depth
social assessment to be carried out before and after works implementation, will likely nuance the
issue by highlighting the fact that many of the immigrants have been in Gabon for many years
(oftentimes they are second generation), and that they render services in the informal and other
sectors where nationals are not willing to work, e.g. doing unskilled and strenuous work in the
construction sector.
G. Conditions for loan effectiveness:
* The Project Account is established and the initial deposit of CFAF 300,000,000 made by the
Borrower into said Account;
* Financial auditors, acceptable to the Bank, have been contracted out by PAPSUT;
* Positions within PAPSUT are staffed with the appropriate personnel satisfactory to the Bank
(project coordinator, accountant, civil engineer specializing in procurement, research
officer);
* PAPSUT has established an accounting and financial system satisfactory to the Bank;
* The Implementation Manual has been adopted in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
* A decree creating the steering committee (COC) has been published in a newspaper carrying
legal announcements, acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The procurement documents for component B are ready and included in the
implementation manual; they are acceptable to the Bank. The project implementation unit



Page 19
(PAPSUT) is operational and contract maiagement procedures for labor-based road works have
been tested and are in the process of being improved according to the Bank's ex-post evaluation;
PAPSUT has a reliable and transparent accounting system. The project implementation and
procurement plans are currently being reviewed by the Bank.
L Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with allapplicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Patrick Canel
Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obehg
Acting Country Director: Jerome Chevallier



Annex 1
(Page 1 of 5)
Project Design Summary
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Public expenditures      The proportion of the     Public expenditure     Infrastructure upgrading
support private sector   Infrastructure PIP allocated  reviews (central and local in poor neighborhoods is
development and poverty   to labor-based public works  governments routine and  key to poverty alleviation
reduction more elficiently   across sectors and    capital expenditure    in Gabon.
and more effectively.    contracted out to local  budgets).
entrepreneurs doubles over                       Private sector development
a three-year period.                             will create economic
Infrastructure sector  growth and will contribute
review, including the  to the modernization of
The proportion of labor-    urban sector.        the country.
based public works in the
PIP allocated to
infrastructure upgrading in
poorer neighborhoods
doubles over a three-year
period.
Development Objectives:                                                    (Objectives to Goal)
To build local capacity to    Methodologies for social,    Urban poverty periodical  Shifting decision making
plan, implement and      technical and financial   assessments as part of  power from central to
maintain, infrastructure    assessments ready three  urban sector reviews.  local government will
schemes for sustainable  months after project                             increase the amount of
improvement of living    effectiveness.            Sector strategy revision    public contracts signed
conditions in poorer urban                         or adjustment, if      with local private sector
neighborhoods of Gabon.   Level of maintenance of  necessary.             (especially in the
infrastructure built-up                          construction industry).
rehabilitated under
neighborhood upgrading                           Govermment is willing to
schemes.                                         allow municipalities and
beneficiaries play a role in
A three-year rolling priority                    the process of setting up
investment program of                            the PIP.
similar schemes identified
and ready for                                    No corruption problems at
implementation at the                            the municipal level.
closing date.



Annex 1
(Page 2 of 5)
Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Output:
Key stakeholders are able
(a) Improved capacity of    (a. 1) Percentage of   Public expenditure     to cooperate and
local NGOs to do         beneficiary contribution  reviews                coordinate their efforts
community planning with  (local government,                               towards poverty
the beneficiaries and    communities), in cash or in                      alleviation.
advocate their needs to  kind, to the neighborhood
local and central        project cost (at least 10 %).                    Key stakeholders are
governrments.                                                             willing to be involved in
(a.2) Number of similar                          the planning, design and
Neighborhood Projects (in                        implementation of such
addition to the four                             schemes.
Neighborhoods included in
the Project),initiated or
prepared before Project
completion.
(a.3) Percentage of
contribution by
Municipalities and
Communities to the costs of
Microprojects.
(b) Improved municipal    (b. 1) Percentage of entities   Local government
capacity to identify and  in charge of public      expenditures reviews
match the infrastructure    infrastructure works
needs of the communities,  (Maitres d 'ouvrage)
assist them in           informed and trained in
implementing             TIPPEE (Travaux d '1ntret
infrastructure upgrading    Public pour la Promotion
projects and actually    de I 'Entreprise et de
provide them with basic  I 'Emploi) methods for
municipal services.      contracting said works to
the private sector.
(b.2) Percentage of works
achieved through the
TIPPEE methods among
those works potentially
achievable through the
TIPPEE methods (by the
Maitres d'ouvrage trained
to use TIPPEE methods).
(b.3) Contents of
neighborhood projects
agreements fully completed
during the project.
(b.4) Cost overruns limited
to X% per individual
contract.



Annex I
(Page 3 of 5)
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
(b.5) Operation and
maintenance plans and
sources of finance for all
project construction works
are in place before start of
works.
(c. l)Half a dozen local
(c) Improved capacity of    contractors are able to
local contractors and     properly use TIPPEE
engineering firms to      methods for small
execute public works and    infrastructure works.
to use TIPPEE
methodology.             (c.2) Two to three local
engineering firms are able
to properly supervise small
infrastructure works.
(c.3) Status of the private
sector firms that have been
awarded contracts during
the Project, as to their
volume of activities,
number of permanent staff,
investments in equipment,
etc.
(c.4) Percentage of costs of
works carried out during
the Project consisting of
salary payments.
(c.5) Percentage of said
salary payments to workers
previously unemployed, out
of which those belonging to
the Communities.
Components:                                                                  (Components to Outputs)
To achieve improvement
(a) Capacity strengthening   (a) $496,000 of training  External technical audits,  of local contractors and
of key stakeholders       and technical assistance to   ex-post reviews by Bank   engineering firms capacitv
make municipal technical   supervision missions    Procurement and contract
units and NGOs operational                         management procedures
Assessments of the social  are well-adapted to
aspects of the project and  contractors needs.
(b) Pilot community-based   (b. 1) About six (6) Km of    Technical audit included
infrastructure schemes    access and transit roads  in component (D) of the   Transparent procedure of
through the selected poorer  proposed project      public works
neighborhoods paved and
________________    drained by local contractors                 Local contractors are



Annex 1
(Page 4 of 5)
Narrative Summary          Key Performance          Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Project supervision    technically able to carry-
(b.2) Setting up of written    missions           out the works.
agreements between the
communities and the       Technical audits of the    Volume of activity of
municipalities to share the   works included in the  private sector of
responsibilities          project                 construction firms is
consistent enough to keep
(b.3) Percentage of       Project implementation    companies in business but
Microprojects completed   unit quarterly progress    not so great a volume that
during the Project        reports                the construction sector is
execution.                                        overwhelmed.
Bank's supervision
(c) Project monitoring and   (c) $567,000 of audit,  mission               To achieve improvemenf
evaluation               monitoring and evaluation                         of municipal capacitv
studies to assess project's
effectiveness and to                              The "learning by doing"
increase project efficiency                       process will permit
capacity building of key
(d) Support to a longer-    (d. 1) Studies and analysis                    stakeholders.
term program of          in the public sector to reach
institutional reforms    the best organization for a                       Municipalities are willing
three year rolling priority                      to involve communities in
investment program                                planning and
implementing projects.
(d.2) $237,000 of feasibility
studies and technical                             No difficulty for central
assistance to prepare the                         and local governments to
PROTOTIPPEE                                       cooperate and coordinate
their efforts towards
community infrastructure
upgrading.
To achieve improvement
of NGO 's capacitv
Capacity and willingness
of the NGO to represent
and to act for the
community
Population is willing to
participate to the project



Logicalframework
Public expenditures become more efficient
Goal                                                    and more effective to support sustainable
development
m   ~~~~~~'
m2=~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .,
cTor a. o '.cCriticalassumptions
D.O                                                         Increase local capacity building                                         If-Then logical links
Conmmunity capacity                                                                                               l 
building increased                   Capacity building ofthe municipalities of                Local contractors and engineering firms promoted through the use o
through the                         Libreville, Port-Gentil and Franceville                                   small-amount contracts
promotion oftwo or                                 increased
Outputs             three NGOs
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    . .    .     .   .   -.  . . .. 
Capacity strenlhening of key staekeholders
Components                                          Pilot community-based infrastructure schemes
L >  Proiect monitorine and evaluation
L    4 buswort to a lonaer-term program of institutional reforns



Annex 2
(Page 1 of 12)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Detailed Description of Project Components
Component A: Capacity strengthening of key stakeholders
(USs 551,039)
A.    Objectives
The principal objective of this component is to reinforce the capacity of the government
sector (public contracting entities, the state and municipal governments) and non-govemmental
sector (NGOs, local consulting firms) to manage (initiate, prepare and evaluate) the various
TIPPEE operations.
B.    Expected results
This component should result in:
(a) the preparation of the necessary TIPPEE documents allowing for a replication of these
projects by public contracting authorities, and their extension into other sectors (e.g. roads,
rural tracks, social infrastructure and transport);
(b) the training of the primary public contracting authorities in the TIPPEE approach; and
(c) the identification and development, through training, of a local private/non-
governmental expertise, specialized in the technical preparation and social monitoring of
TIPPEE projects.
C.    Description
The specific activities to fulfill this objective include the following:
(a)    Preparation and dissemination of TIPPEE documents
The development and dissemination of handbooks/manuals for the identification,
preparation and implementation of TIPPEE projects, specifically including the
methodology and specialized documents for: (i) socio-economic and environmental
evaluations of TIPPEE projects; (ii) design of TIPPEE works, in particular, for roads,
cleaning/drainage, as well as complementary extensions in urban and rural areas, in social
infrastructure and in the area of road maintenance; (iii) the documents and methods for
managing TIPPEE contracts, for works as well as for studies; and (iv) the establishment of
a price reference list, based on prices observed in the context of the TIPPEE projects (see
component B).



Annex 2
(Page 2 of 12)
(b)    Training of public contractors in TIPPEE procedures and guidelines
Training and consciousness-raising activities for public contracting authorities in
the use of these documents. These actions will be undertaken and targeted toward the
urban municipalities of Gabon, the primary technical ministries involved (e.g.
equipment/amenities, health, education, etc.). Should it be necessary, or needed, these
actions could also be directed toward other secondary cities.
(c)    NGO training in TIPPEE procedures
The identification and development, through training efforts, of a local
private/non-governmental expertise in the area of feasibility studies, monitoring and
evaluation of the TIPPEE operations, for and alongside the targeted municipalities. This
local expertise would especially need to be called upon for the preparation of neighborhood
projects under component (B).
D.    Component implementation
The PAPSUT will be in charge of the execution of this component. It will grant the short-
term contracts for studies and technical assistance necessary for the implementation of component
activities.
E.    Implementation Calendar
The implementation of activity (a), as described above, should begin as soon as the loan
becomes effective in order to establish draft versions of the handbooks which will be used for the
implementation of the TIPPEE pilot projects in component B. The identification, training and
development of local private/non-govermmental expertise should occur during the first year of
implementation of the project in order to mobilize all or simply a part of this expertise for the pilot
works included in component B of the project. These TIPPEE documents (handbooks) will be
finalized by the end of the second year of project implementation. The dissemination of these
documents for the training of public contracting authorities will occur during the course of the third
year of project implementation.
F.    Base cost estimate
The equivalent of 21 expatriate expert months (approximately $545,647) for assistance to
the PAPSUT in the area of design of pedagogical materials, training of trainers, payment of
volunteers' expenses, etc.
---------US $ thousand--------
IBRD     Govt.    Benef.  Total
(i) Preparation and dissemination of TIPPEE     117       39         0    156
documents
(ii) Training of public contractors in TIPPEE   178       59         0    237
procedures and guidelines
(iii) NGO training in TIPPEE procedures         118       39         0    158
413      138         0    551



Annex 2
(Page 3 of 12)
G.    Financing
The IBRD will finance assistance to the PAPSUT for the following: (i) the development of
a handbook with respect to the results obtained during the pilot project, and its continuous
updating; and (ii) the preparation and updating of training activities included in this component.
This assistance could take the form of punctual short-term missions of international experts to
support the staff of PAPSUT in charge of carrying out specific activities.
Component B: Pilot community-based infrastructure schemes
(US$ 5,568,570)
A.    Objectives
The principal objective of this component is to (i) provide a real test of the TIPPEE
approach; (ii) apply it to infrastructure improvement in under-served/equipped neighborhoods; and
(iii) develop a model for sustainable community up-grading and support that is replicable to other
urban communities in Gabon. This constitutes a clear priority for urban sector work for reducing
poverty in Gabon, planning, financing ('in kind' or financial), implementing, and maintaining basic
infrastructure and services; and to set up a durable template for rehabilitation and support to local
communities, which could be applicable to other neighborhood communities in Gabon.
B.    Expected results
This component should give result in: (i) the completion of six kilometers of paved road
including associated drainage, carried out by local small and medium-sized firms, which should
facilitate access to and within slum neighborhoods poorly served by urban services and amenities
(these neighborhoods are spread out over the three main cities of the country); (ii) the identification
of other neighborhood projects around these access roads, through a process of mutual consultation
between the beneficiary communities and the municipal governments; and (iii) the completion of
various neighborhood micro-projects (community infrastructure) included in the overall
neighborhood projects.
C.    Description
This component involves the following activities:
(a)    Access and transit roads:
(i) in Libreville, paving works for an amount of US $ 1,334,651 are planned in the Avea
area. Their purpose is to improve access and transit conditions in this neighborhood:
* Servicing of Avea
Works envisaged:
paving of the road (2.5 meters across) with two parallel sidewalks on each side, 1.5 meters
in width, and side drainage collectors. Completion of a paved foot path running in a
perpendicular fashion to the main road.



Annex 2
(Page 4 of 12)
Summary description and estimation of costs:
FCFA (millions)         US $
Indemnities                          not determined      not determiined
Road 2.5m  + shoulders + drainage            189            309,919
collectors (600ml)
Sidewalk extension 2.5m toward school         18            29,992
(200ml)
Foot path (500mi)                             73            119,969
pre-tax total                                281           459,880
Secondary roads in Avea
Works envisaged:
paving of a 6m-road with two parallel sidewalks on each side, 1.5 meters in width, and
side drainage collectors.
Summary description and estimation of costs:
CFA (millions)          US $
Road 6m + sidewalk 1.5m + drainage        534               874,771
collectors (1500ml)
pre-tax total                             534               874,771
(ii) in Port Gentil, paving works for a total of US $ 2,071,123 are planned. 61% of this
amount will be spent in works that will improve access to quartier sud neighborhood and
the rest will contribute to an transit improvement in quartier balise area.
a  Access road to the quartier sud
Works envisaged:
paving of the existing roadbed with a general restoration of the roadside and the creation of
pedestrian and parking areas.
Summary description and estimation of costs:
Paving of the roadbed (1600 ml):     CFA (millions)         US $
Prefabrication cobblestones and           275              449,882
curbstones
Paving and general road bed work          264              433,220
pre-tax total                             539              883,102
Road drainage:
Cement gutters (200ml)                    31               49,987
Cleaning of secondary collectors           5                8,331
(500mi)
Ground-based outlet (500ml)               10               16,662
Connection to existing network            25               41,656
pre-tax total                             71               116,636



Annex 2
(Page 5 of 12)
+ the extension requested by the municipal government of Port Gentil during the appraisal
mission:
CFA (millions)        US $
Paving of 550 Im of roadbed +             196              321,582
cleaning/repair
* Extension of the Etienne Bidaye road
Works envisaged:
paving of the existing roadbed, as well as two pedestrian areas accompanied by new
drainage systems alongside the road.
Summary description and estimation of costs:
Paving of the road bed over 750 Im:   CFA (millions)        US $
Prefabrication   of cobblestones and      112              183,285
curbstones
Road side drainage system                  112             183,285
Paving and general road bed work           153             249,935
pre-tax total                             376              616,505
Road drainage:
Cement gutters                             71              116,636
Cleaning of secondary collectors           10               16,662
pre-tax total                              81              133,298
(iii) in Franceville, paving works for an amount of US $ 116,636 will be spent:
* Opening up of Ongali toward Epila
Works envisaged:
completion of a surfaced footpath (2.5 meters) to the top of the hill
Summary description and estimation of costs:
CFA (millions)        US $
Construction of footpath                   71              116,636
pre-tax total                              71              116,636
(b)    Community-based development plans
Neighborhood projects will be devised around the road works projects mentioned above.
These proposed projects should be the result of a process of mutual consultation between
the beneficiaries and the municipal authorities. This package of neighborhood projects
should  include  the  following:  (i)  the  location  of  existing  neighborhood
infrastructure/amenities (e.g. markets, bus stations, schools, street lamps, etc.); (ii) an



Annex 2
(Page 6 of 12)
identification of unused or unbuilt public land in the neighborhood; (iii) the location of the
proposed priority micro-projects for the neighborhood (see following section); (iv) a
succinct traffic scheme of the areas, considering the equipment and the roads already
completed during this pilot phase of project works; (v) some complementary actions geared
toward improving basic sanitation conditions in the various neighborhoods such as public
awareness campaigns, education and organization of the beneficiaries; and (vi) a simplified
evaluation of the social and environmental impact of the neighborhood micro-projects.
(c)    Neighborhood amenities (micro-projects)
The neighborhood micro-projects comprising each of the various neighborhood programs
could involve the following equipment/amenities:
*  footpaths and small bridges for pedestrians and cyclists;
*  general sanitation and improvement of existing infrastructure/amenities (e.g. markets,
bus stations, public laundry areas, etc.);
-  playgrounds and public gardens;
-  meeting rooms for local associations and communities;
  public lighting;
-  waste transfer stations;
-  public latrines;
*  public gardens;
*  parking areas, taxi or bus stops.
These micro-projects must fit into the overall framework for the neighborhood projects as
described above. For instance, they will have to be linked, either directly or indirectly
through additional foot path construction work, to the access and/or transit roads
completed under section (a) of this component.  The communities involved must
demonstrate their ability to effectively manage this infrastructure and amenities. For
instance, financial management capacity must reveal an ability to distinguish between
different levels and sources of financial contribution, such as those coming from the target
groups themselves, the municipal government, or from the state. Also important would be
the ability to establish the various modes of implementation, operational management and
of course, maintenance of each community infrastructure micro-project.
These micro-projects must be set forth and presented in the following manner. They must
be in accordance with the model project planning documents established by the PAPSUT
in the course of component (A) of the project. These projects can be modified so as to
adapt to each type of situation. Any modifications however, would have to be discussed
with the technical departments of the city government. The modified proposal must
include plans and a detailed description of the modifications.
D.    Component Implementation
The PAPSSUT will be in charge of contract management procedures for the works, studies
and monitoring of works to be completed under section (a) of this component. The PAPSUT will
also have to facilitate the municipal governments' understanding of and role in the management of
such contracting procedures according to the following table showing a division of responsibility:



Annex 2
(Page 7 of 12)
TECHNICAL  STUDIES  AND                 PAPSUT               MUNICIPAL GOVT.
PREPARATION OF BIDDING
DOCUMENTS
Preparation of terms of reference          x                          x
Preparation of bidding documents           x
Call for tenders                           x
Analysis of bids                           x
Award proposal                             x
Award decision                             x                          x
Contract clearance                                                    x
Signing of the contract                    x
Review of the study                        x
Endorsement of study outputs                                          x
Payment for services rendered              x
WORKS
Initiation of the call for bids            x
Analysis of offers                         x
Award proposal                             x
Contract clearance                         x                          x
Signing of the contract                    x
Supervision  of works  (on-site            x                          x
visits)
Payment of bills                           x
Acceptance of works                        x                          x
WORKS SUPERVISION
Preparation of terms of reference          x
Preparation of bidding documents           x
Call for tenders                           x
Analysis of offers                         x
Award proposal                             x
Award decision                             x                          x
Contract clearance                                                    x
Signing of the contract                    x
Payment for services rendered              x
E.    Implementation calendar
Studies and works included in the subcomponent (a) should be launched as soon as
possible. The neighborhood projects will be designed through a process of consultation with local
beneficiaries, during the completion of the road works in Avea and only after completion of such
works for the other areas. These neighborhood projects should start after the mid-term review and
be carried out during the third and last year of the project.



Annex 2
(Page 8 of 12)
F.    Base cost estimate
---------US $ thousand--------
IBRD     Govt.    Benef.  Total
(i) Access and transit roads                 2,595    1,674         0  4,269
(ii) Community-based development plans         161       54         0    214
(iii) Neighborhood amenities (micro-projects)  868      109       109  1,085
3,624    1,836      109  5,569
G.    Financing
The micro-projects will be allocated an amount of approximately one million US dollars.
Moreover, the beneficiaries will be counted on to contribute at least 10 % of this amount (either in
cash or in kind). This 10% should include a partial in-kind contribution from the community, such
as unremunerated labor contribution, so as to insure the community's sense of ownership over the
new neighborhood infrastructure projects. The municipalities are expected to pay the entire
contribution assigned to the Gabonese government for the financing of the microprojects.
COMPONENT C: Project monitoring and evaluation
(US$ 633,303)
A.    Objectives
The principal objective of this component is to put in place the necessary methods for
monitoring and evaluation to improve: (a) the social, economic and environmental efficiency of the
TIPPEE projects; and (b) the effectiveness, transparency in management and overall quality of the
TIPPEE projects.
B.    Expected results
This component should give rise to: (a) the introduction of a method for continuous
monitoring and evaluation of the social, economic and environmental impacts of the TIPPEE
projects; (b) an evaluation of such impact for the TIPPEE works projects included in component B
of the project; (c) the introduction of an integrated financial and technical management system for
the TIPPEE contracts; (d) the introduction of a periodical external quality control/review system
for the works projects realized under TIPPEE; (e) similar quality control measures for the TIPPEE
works included in component (B) of the project; and (f) external review of the management of
PAPSUT in the TIPPEE works projects.
C.    Description
The specific activities to fulfill this objective include the following:
(a)   Impact assessments
Permanent monitoring and evaluation of the social, economic and environmental
impacts of the TIPPEE works projects. This section will involve the carrying out of the
following specific tasks:



Annex 2
(Page 9 of 12)
*  development of an evaluation methodology for assessing socio-economic and
environmental impact;
*  definition of key indicators and other data necessary for periodic evaluation;
*  introduction of an information system to manage key indicators; and
*  gathering and analysis of data.
(b)    TIPPEE contract monitoring
Integrated technical and financial management system for the TIPPEE contracts:
this activity will develop a management system for the TIPPEE contracts under component
B of the project. This system will allow the donor, public contracting authorities, project
operations officials, and the project financial management to continuously track the
physical and financial status of the TIPPEE works and to effectively manage and contain
any cost overruns. Specifically, this system will include the following:
the introduction of an analytical accounting capacity within PAPSUT for tracking
expenditures incurred for civil works, engineering and monitoring studies; and for
operating expenses of the public contracting authorities concerning each type of external
financing, with details on each sub-project and corresponding contract for a given sub-
project; and
the introduction of an internal computerized network system for monitoring and evaluation
with respect to the technical and financial aspects of the project, in a way that integrates
the relevant accounting data.
(c)    Audits
Periodic audits of the management of the TIPPEE works projects, as well as
financial audits of the public contracting authorities.
D.    Component implementation
The PAPSUT will be in charge of the implementation of this component. It will develop,
with or without external assistance, all terms of reference for activities to be undertaken. It will
grant the short-term contracts for studies and technical assistance that may be necessary for the
implementation of the aforementioned activities.
E.    Implementation calendar
From the launch date of the project, a monitoring and evaluation methodology for the
impact of the project must be developed and applied to the pilot projects included in component B
of the project. The integrated management system for neighborhood projects must be conceived
before the beginning of the envisaged works of the projects. Terms of reference for the technical
and financial audits must also be available before the works included in the project can start. The
audits must be carried out every semester.



Annex 2
(Page 10 of 12)
F.    Base cost estimates
---------US $ thousand--------
IBRD     Govt.    Benef.  Total
(i)    Impacts assessments                      197        66         0    263
(ii)    TIPPE contracts monitoring               158       53         0    211
(iii)   Audits                                   119       40         0    159
475      158         0    633
G.    Financing
The IBRD will finance any consulting and technical assistance contracts necessary for the
PAPSUT to effectively carry out the activities described herein.
COMPONENTD: Support to a longer-term program of institutional reforms
(USS 622,757)
A.    Objective
The principal objective of this component is to prepare the appropriate institutional
framework that would facilitate sustained development of local small and medium-sized firms
specializing in construction and other public works. The institutional framework involves the
management of public procurement and expenditure by the state, municipal governments and the
Fonds Routier for infrastructure, as well as the legislative and regulatory frameworks governing
public contract management.
B.    Expected results
(a)    The definition of a program of public expenditure that would effectively insure
local small and medium-sized firms of a sustained procurement; this program will involve
the following aspects:
*  a three-year program of TIPPEE projects within the scope of activities of the
municipalities in the area of infrastructure (e.g. secondary and tertiary roads,
small-scale social infrastructure, etc.). These projects would come from the
municipalities themselves, particularly those in urban areas, and would accrue
to their budget. The municipalities would carry out feasibility studies for the
three-year program, covering the 2001-2003, as well as detailed engineering
studies for projects to be implemented in the first year;
* a program of public expenditure for the state that would ensure counterpart
funding for projects identified by the municipalities themselves, but which
correspond to specific priorities of the government in the area of national
development and planning. The financing portion accruing to the government
of this three-year Priority Investment Program (PIP), for the TIPPEE
infrastructure projects in the areas capable of generating public work (e.g.



Annex 2
(Page 11 of 12)
agriculture, transport, health and education, and particularly the urban sector)
could also be selectively supported, if necessary, by external financing; and
*  a program of expenditure for TIPPEE infrastructure maintenance, clearly
identifiable in the operating budgets of the state and municipal governments
and of the Fonds Routier.
(b)    A  series of reform  propositions for public expenditure management in
infrastructure, as well as in public contract management, geared toward ensuring access of
small and medium-sized firms to public procurement contracts under acceptable conditions
with respect to the technical, administrative and financial side. These propositions should
specifically concern the following:
*  the code of public contracts allowing for rapid processing and awarding of
contracts, as well as for accelerated payment to small and medium-sized firms
acting as contractors; and
*  a clarification of the precise responsibilities of each actor in the public
contracting management process.
(c)    The identification of a series of accompanying measures that would allow for
sustained development of the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. Among these
measures are the creation of a conducive institutional and legal environment for delegated
contract management (DCM) and the preparation of draft laws and decrees to this end.
C.    Description
The specific activities to fulfill this objective include the following:
(a)    Public infrastructure expenditure reviews
an annual public expenditure review for infrastructure allowing for a clearer
understanding of the nature of works that have been programmed in each sector and to
identify those that could be managed as TIPPEE projects;
(b)    Public procurement reform
review of public sector procurement methods and contract management
procedures, to facilitate the access of small and medium-size enterprises to public
infrastructure construction/rehabilitation;
(c)    Development strategy for the construction sector
preparation of a development strategy for small and medium-sized firms in the
construction sector;
(d)    PIP.TIPPE preparation and feasibility studies
feasibility studies for a priority investment program for TIPPEE infrastructure
projects; and
(e)    Engineering studies for PIP.TIPPE (Phase 1)
development of a three year priority investment program of TIPPEE projects and
financing of the engineering studies of the first phase.



Annex 2
(Page 12 of 12)
D.    Component implementation
The PAPSUT will be in charge of the implementation of this component. It will draw up
necessary terms of reference, with or without external assistance. In particular, it will administer
short-term contracts for studies and technical assistance necessary for the implementation of the
activities listed above.
E.    Implementation calendar
From the launch date of the project, a methodology for the analysis of public infrastructure
expenditures will be set up and tested in 1999 on the basis of public infrastructure expenditures
programmed in 1998. This methodology will be refined and improved during reviews in 2000 and
2001. Draft terms of reference for the studies required for this component have been prepared and
reviewed during technical discussions which took place before negotiations. These studies should
start right after the launch of the project.
F.    Base cost estimates
----------US $ thousand--------
IBRD     Govt.    Benef.  Total
(i)  Public expenditure reviews (infrastructure)  88       29         0    118
(ii)  Public procurement reform                  117       39         0    155
(iii) Development strategy for the construction  57        19         0      76
sector
(iv)  PIP.TIPPE preparation and feasibility studies    123  41        0    163
(v)  Engineering studies for PIPTIPPE (Phase 1)   83       28         0    110
467      156         0    623
G.    Financing
The IBRD will finance any consulting and technical assistance contracts necessary for the
PAPSUT to effectively carry out the activities described above.



Annex 3
(Page 1 of 2)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                          Local   Foreign   Total
-------US $ thousand-------
(A) Capacity strengthening of key stakeholders
(a) Preparation and dissemination of TIPPEE documents             43        99      142
(b) Training of public contractors in TIPPEE procedures           64       149      213
& guidelines
(c) NGO training in TIPPEE procedures                             43        99      142
149      347      496       8%
(B) Pilot community-based infrastructure schemes
(a) Access and transit roads                                    1,466    2,248    3,714
(b) Community-based development plans                             57       132      189
(c) Neighborhood amenities (micro-projects)                      402       604    1,006
1,925    2,984    4,909      75%
(C) Project monitoring and evaluation
(a) Impact assessments                                            71       165      236
(b) TIPPEE contract monitoring                                    57       132      189
(c) Audits                                                         0       142      142
128      440      567       9%
(D) Support to a longer-term program of institutional reforms
(a) Public infrastructure expenditure reviews                     32        74      106
(b) Public procurement reform                                     43        99      142
(c) Development strategy for the construction sector              21        50       71
(d) PIP.TIPPEE preparation and feasibility studies.               43        99      142
(e) Engineering studies for PIP.TIPPEE (Phase 1)                  28        66       95
167      389      555       9%
Total Baseline Cost                                                  2,369    4,159    6,528    100%
Physical Contingencies                                                 159      273      432       7%
Price Contingencies                                                   176       239      416       6%
Total Project Cost                                                   2,704    4,671    7,376    113%



Annex 3
(Page 2 of 2)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Financing Plan
Prolect Comnonent                         IBRD   Counterpart Beneficiaries  Total
~US $ thousand
(A) Capacity strengthening of key stakeholders
(a) Preparation and dissemination of TIPPEE documents          117           39            0      156
(b) Training of public contractors in TIPPEE procedures        178           59            0      237
& guidelines
(c) NGO training in TIPPEE procedures                          118           39            0      158
413         138            0       551       7%
(B) Pilot community-based infrastructure schemes
(a) Access and transit roads                                  2,595       1,674            0    4,269
(b) Community-based development plans                          161           54            0      214
(c) Neighborhood amenities (micro-projects)                    868          109          109     1,085
3,624       1,836          109     5,569     75%
(C) Project monitoring and evaluation
(a) Impact assessments                                         197           66            0      263
(b) TIPPEE contract monitoring                                 158           53            0      211
(c) Audits                                                     119          40             0      159
475         158            0       633       9%
(D) Support to a longer-term program of institutional reforms
(a) Public infrastructure expenditure reviews                   88          29             0      118
(b) Public procurement reform                                  117           39            0      155
(c) Development strategy for the construction sector            57           19            0       76
(d) PIP.TIPPEE preparation and feasibility studies.            123           41            0      163
(e) Engineering studies for PIP.TIPPEE (Phase 1)                83           28            0       110
467         156            0       623       8%
Total Project Cost                                                 4,979       2,288          109    7,376    100%
Percentage                                                          68%         31%           1%      100%



Annex 4
(Page 1 of 2)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary:
The proposed project is intended as a follow-up to the Avea operation. The Av6a
operation has been the subject of a cost-effectiveness study conducted by two consultants, an
engineer and an economist. The conclusion of this study is that the method used for the Avea
operation can be considered as cost-effective. The costs of the operation are higher than African
standards but in the line with Gabonese conditions. The price difference between this operation
and an equivalent operation in another African country can be explained by three main factors:
Cement prices are not determined in a competitive market because the Societe des
Ciments du Gabon enjoys a monopoly (that is not official but observed) within
Gabonese territory. Gabonese cement price are 35% more expensive, on average, than
in the other countries of the region (Togo, Benin). This price difference is structural
and could only be reduced by an increase in productivity by the Societ6 des Ciments
du Gabon.
* Sand prices present the same problem as cement. A monopolistic situation generates
prices three times higher than in the other countries of the region (Togo, Benin).
The average salary at a Gabonese TIPPEE work site is three times higher than in
Benin or Togo. This difference is linked to the difference in average incomes of these
countries. Annual GDP per capita in Gabon is $5,000 whereas it is only $600 in
Benin and $350 in Togo.
This study shows that TIPPEE projects in Gabon are less efficient than in Benin or Togo
but also demonstrates that the TIPPEE approach is effective in comparison to alternative
approaches available in Gabon.
In addition, a cost estimation as included in the study to assess prices of future works to
undertake in the frame of the project. Furthermore, it shows that the choice of paved roads instead
of asphalted roads is economically justified. Paved roads are not more expensive than asphalted
roads, they are more sustainable and need less maintenance.



Annex 4
(Page 2 of 2)
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary:
In the preparation phase of the project, a study has been conducted to prepare a list of
potential access and transit roads works that could be executed in the three main cities of Gabon:
Libreville, Port Gentil and Franceville.
The choice among these different options was based on social criteria. The emphasis has
been put on the level of infrastructure and density of these areas. The least developed areas with
the highest density and the poorest population have been selected. Special attention has been paid
to the environmental impact to minimize the number of expropriations and displacements.
As most of these areas currently have only earth roads, in very poor condition and
unusable during the rainy season, the outcomes of the project are difficult to quantify because the
appearance of these areas will be modified as a result of the project. Nevertheless, living
conditions are likely to be improved by the project: access and transit roads will bring new
activities in these areas; trade will be developed along the street; public health will be improved
since public services will be able to function more efficiently. Above all, these areas will no longer
remain on the fringe of the economic life of the town. They will be more concretely integrated into
the town due to this infrastructure upgrading.
In addition, the microprojects, which are also a significant part of the project, have not yet
been chosen. They will be selected by the community through a process of consultation and
discussion. Thus, their impact can not be measured at this stage of the project
Furthermore, one of the main aims of the project is to test its economic effectiveness in
order to decide whether to pursue such a strategy. The component C will analyze the economic
and social benefits of the project and will draw the lessons for the following operation. A baseline
assessment of conditions in the neighborhoods targeted by the project will be done at the beginning
of the project, including transport time, problems and delays in delivery of goods, level of economic
activity, real estate prices and hygiene conditions. A second assessment will be done three years
later, when the project has been completed, and a comparison will enable us to concretely see the
outcomes and the benefits of the project.



Annex 5
(Page 1 of 1)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Financial Summary
Implementation                  Operational Period
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Total    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Project Costs (US $ thousand)
Investment Costs                          2,188    2,462    2,726    7,376
Recurrent Costs                                       22        25        46       27        27        27
Total                                     2,188    2,484    2,751    7,422         27        27        27
Financial by Source (US $ thousand)
IBRD                                      1,453     1,668    1,859    4,979
Central Government                          723      747       818    2,288
Local Govermnent                             12       69        74       155       27        27        27
Total                                     2,188    2,484    2,751    7,422         27        27        27
Financial by Source (% of total annual costs)
IBRD                                       66%       67%      68%       67%        0%       0%        0%
Central Government                         33%       30%      30%       31%       0%        0%        0%
Local Government                            1%        3%       3%        2%j   100%       100%      100%
Total                                     100%      100%     100%      100/c    100%     100%      100%
Note: Recurrent costs are calculated at 1% of investments



Annex 6
(Page 1 of 7)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
Section I. Procurement of Works
Part A: General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 as
revised through September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $2,420,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    Procurement of Small Works
Small works under Subcomponent (B.c) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $860,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.



Annex 6
(Page 2 of 7)
2.    Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of
consultants.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of
consultants for services under Component (B) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.    Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.    Single Source Selection
Services for training and planning under Subcomponents (A.c) and (B.b) of the Project
which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines.



Annex 6
(Page 3 of 7)
3.    Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.    Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
2.     Prior Review
(a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall
have been given.
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
DISBURSEMENT
A.    Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
I.    The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    50 % of expenditures on Civil Works contracts, i.e. US$ 2.24 million;
(b)    75 % of expenditures on Microprojects contracts, i.e. US$ 0.87 million;
(c)    75 % of expenditures on Consultants contracts, i.e. US$ 1.59 million.
(Taxes are taken into account to obtain these percentages)
2.     As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursement would be completed
by four months after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard IBRD
documentation.



Annex 6
(Page 4 of 7)
B.    Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs)
Contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent for civil works
Consulting firms contracts of less than US$ 100,000
Individual consultants contracts of less than US$ 50,000
All supporting documents for SOEs will be retained for review by periodic Bank supervision and
external auditors.
C.    Special account
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project,
it is proposed that the government establish a Special Account in the amount of CFAF 300 million.
Funds in this Special Account would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the
Project.  During negotiations, agreement has been reached regarding the arrangements for
establishing and operating the Special Account.



Annex 6
(Page 5 of 7)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $ million equivalent)
Total Cost (including
Expenditure Category         Procurement Method               contingencies)
_______________         ICB      NCB     Other    NBF
1. Civil Works
Access and transit roads        4.04                              4.04
(2.43)                            (2.43)
Microprojects                            0.98     0.11            1.09
(0.87)                  (0.87)
2. Consultants                            2.25                     2.25
(1.68)                  (1.68)
Total                            4.04     3.22     0.11            7.38
(2.43)   (2-55)                   (4.98)



Annex 6
(Page 6 of 7)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract'Value                                     Contracts Subject to Prior
Expenditure Category      (Procurement Method         Procurement Method           Review (hresholds)
Threshold)
1. Clvil Works
$ 30,000 - $ 300,000   NCB                           All
< $ 30,000             Quotations from 3 contractors    None
2. Services
(i) Engineering studies and                         QCBS                          >$ 100,000
supervisions
(ii) Assistance to community                        Single Source                 >$ 100,000
planning
(iii) Training and technical                        Individual                    > $ 50,000
assistance
(iv) Feasibility studies and                        Individual                    > $ 50,000
technical assistance
(v) Financial audit                                 LCS                           >$ 100,000



Annex 6
(Page 7 of 7)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US $ million    Financing Percentage
1. Civil works                                 2.24            50%       (tax included)
2. Microprojects                               0.87            75%       (tax included)
3. Consultants                                 1.59            75%
4. Unallocated                                 0.28
Total                                          4.98



Annex 7
(Page 1 of 1)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
214.6                95.2
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5 months            14 months
First Bank mission (identification)            06/01/1997           01/07/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    10/01/1997           03/23/1998
Negotiations                                   02/10/1998           04/30/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/30/1998
Prepared by: PAPSUT (Project Implementation Unit for the Transport TA project) and Bank team
Preparation assistance: PAPSUT (preparatory studies for the urban component of the Transport
TA project)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Patrick Canel                             Team Leader
Denise Vaudaine                      Municipal Finance Specialist
Nichola Dyer-Cisse                           Economist
Magda Lara-Resende                            Consultant
Bernard Peccoud                             Consultant
Bertrand Ah-Sue                        Procurement Specialist
Hans-Werner Wabnitz                             Counsel
Claudine Morin                             Sr. Counsel
Renee Desclaux                         Disbursement Officer
Gilles Badot                            Project Assistant
Connie Kok-Shun                            Team Assistant



Annex 8
(Page 1 of 1)
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
Pilot Community Infrastructure Works and Capacity Building Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank Identification mission report - January 1997
C. Other
1.   Projet d'Assistance Technique au Secteur des Transports (PATRANS):
Pre-identification d'un programme de pavage dans les villes de Port-Gentil,
Franceville et Libreville (mars 1996)
2.   Newspaper extract from Gabon showing the official launching of paving works in
Avea (May 1996)
3.   Rapport de mission d'animation et du suivi socio-economique de l'operation pilote
de pavage a Avea - Jeune Chambre Economique du Gabon (rapport juillet 1996 et
rapport final)
4.   Diagnostic du secteur urbain: strategie et plans sectoriels - Macro-cadrage, phase 1,
etape 1 - ACT Consultants (janvier 1997)
5.   Diagnostic du secteur urbain: strategie et plans sectoriels - Proposition de strategie
urbaine, phase 1, etape 2 - ACT Consultants (juin 1997)
6.   Diagnostic du secteur urbain: strategie et plans sectoriels - Programme des
investissements urbains, phase 2, etape 2 - ACT Consultants (d6cembre 1997)
7.   Programme des investissements urbains - Programmes detailles - PAPSUT/ACT
Consultants (decembre 1997)
8.   Projet de travaux d'int6ret public pour la promotion de l'emploi - Synthese
(MM. Peccoud et Populus)
9.   Preparation of PROTOTIPPE - Mission report from Mr. Populus (July 1997)
10.  Preparation of PROTOTIPPE - Mission report from Mr. Peccoud ( September
1997)
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Gabon
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US* Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                          Purpose
No.                                                                                   IBRD        IDA       Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 12
Active Loans
GA-PE-41548    IBRD41860    1997                                         PRIV. & REG. CB TA                 10.00        0.00             0.00           8.20         5.77       0.00
GA-PE-35595    IBRD3777A    1995   GOVERNMENT                            TRANSPORT SECTOR TA                 1.76        0.00             0.00           1.76         1.73       0.00
GA-PE-786       IBRD3506A    1993   GOVERNMENT                           FORESTRY/ENVIRONMENT               13.05        0.00             0.00          13.05        12.85       0.00
Total                                                                                                       24.81        0.00             0.00          23.01       20.35        0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total                                                                                            0
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                      1.19              194.20               195.39
of which has been repaid:                     0.00              113.76               113.76
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    24.81                80.43               105.24
Amount sold                                          0.00               29.24                29.24
Of which repaid                                  0.00                29.24                29.24
Total Undisbursed                :                 23.01                 0.00                23.01
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590) . Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infornation System (OIS)
Generated: 07/21/98



Anmex 10
Gabon at a glance                                                                 Page 1 of 2
Sub- Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan  middle-
Gabon      Africa  Income      Development dlamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         1.1       600      479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            3,980       490    4,540                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                4.4       294    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-06
Population (%)                                         2.6        2.7      1.5      GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%)                                        1.9        2.6      1.8     per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                73        31       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        55        52       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                89        92       35                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% ofdchildren undar 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                  67        47       86
Illiteracy (% o population age 15+)                     37        43       13          -     Gabon
Gross primary enrollment (X odschool-age population)   142        72      107
Male                                                 144        78                         Upper-middle-lncome gtoup
Female                                               140        65
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
GOP (billions USS)                            2.2      4.1        5.1      5.7     Economic ratloV
Gross domestic investment/GDP                62.7     38.9       21.2     20.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP            49.5     51.4       57.0     59.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   64.3     43.2       42.1     43.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   57.3     34.9       23.2     23.8
Current account balance/GDP                            -4.0       1.9      3.7
Interest payments/GDP                         0.7      1.4        4.0      4.4     Savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                                40.9     29.7       87.8     81.7
Total debt service/exports                    52      11.6       15.1     21.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                        70.1
Present value of debVexports                                    122.5                           Indebtedness
1975-86  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                      Gabon
GDP                                  -0.5     2.5      3.8        3.1      4.3               Upper-middle-Income group
GNP per capita                      -5.3     -1.0     -1.4       -1.4      2.8
Exports of goods and services        0.1      6.8      5.2        0.5      2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(1 of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Iivestmnent (%)
Agriculture                                   6.4      5.5        7.7      6.8    2z
Industry                                     62.3     54.7       50.0     52.2     10
Manufacturing                                4.3      6.0       5.8      5.7       o 
Services                                     31.3     39.8       42.3     40.9    -to      91  N             S4    s    n
Private consumption                          23.5     46.3       46.5     46.0    -20
General govemment consumption                12.2     10.4       11.4     10.9               -GDI    ---GDP
Imports of goods and services                47.9     47.1       36.1     36.6
1975-8S  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
Agriculture                                   1.3     -0.8      -11.1     -0.3     20
Industry                                      2.2      3.8        5.2      2.2
Manufacturing                                3.3     -0.2      12.8      8.5      10
Services                                      1.6      1.9        4.7  45          o0
Private consumption                           6.0     -3.0        4.1     13.3    9t       i    92   93   94/95   98
General govemment consumption                 6.9      -0.2       1.7      6.2
Gross domestic investment                     -3.7     -0.9      -0.1      6.2    -20
Imports of goods and services                 3.9      -2.9       2.7     14.6             - Exports   -m pors
Gross national product                        -0.8     1.5        1.0      1.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Gabon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985      1995      1998
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          ea -
Consumer prices                               28.5    -12.9        9.6      4.3      40 -A
Implict GDP deflator                           5.8     19.9        5.8     10.8820                               :
Govemment flnance                                                                    0oZ                             _
(% of GDP)                                    20                                                         93   94 w         98
Current revenue                                 ..    34.6        28.6     25.9
Current budget balance                          ..    20.3         8.4      8.3              *     GDP def. -O-CPI
Overall surplus/defict                           ..    -1.8        3.1      2.7
TRADE
1976     1985      1996      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exporls (fob)                          1,149    1,951      2,643    3,111     4000
Fuel                                           ..   1,629      2,114    2,531
Timber                                         ..     122        346      383      3,00_
Manufactures                                   ..       ..         0        0
Total imports (cif)                            599      855       898       969      2,000    r    r 
Food                                          ..      161        181      191      1
Fuel and energy                                ..      50        173      221
Capital goodrs                                 *      215        339      355      10
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..         ..       ..           90  91  92  93  94  9s  98
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..         ..       ..                 C Exports  mU Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(mi1lions USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                1,235    2,090      2,916    3,398      4
Imports of goods and services                1,092    1,913      1,848    2,088
Resource balance                               143      177      1 068    1,310      2
Net income                                    -153     -244       -770     -881      o      l                     E_
Net current transfers                            1      -95       -198     -218                    92        14 '        .8
Current account balance,                                                            -2
before official capital transfers             -9    -162         100      211
Financing items (net)                           52      113       -141     -129
Changes in net reserves                        -43       49        42       -83    -4
Memto:
Reserves including gold (mWil. USS)            146      197       150       259
Conversion rate (locaVUS$)                   214.3    449.3      499.1    511.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt 1996 (mIll. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           883    1,206      4,492    4,658                     G   A
IBRD                                          19       11       110       102                  F ie5   0 2
IDA                                           0         0         0         0                 175~i2 147
Total debt service                              64      246       442       744                                 612
IBRO                                          2         2        20       20
IDA                                           0         0         0         0
Composhion of net resource flows
Official grants                              25        16        87         0
Official creditors                            75       38       208        82
Private creditors                           253        95        -75      -19
Foreign direct investment                    167       15        -50     -136                    E
Portfolio equity                               0        0         0         0                   3453
World Bank program
Commiments                                    5         0         5         0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilaterwl
Disbursements                                  3        0         4         4      B - IDA    D - Other multiateral  F Private
Principal repayments                           1        1        12        12      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Net fows                                       2       -1        -8        -8
Interest payments                              1        1         8         8
Net transfers                                  1       -2        -16      -16
Development Economics                                                                                                  918/97



10                                           1 2                                          14'
C A M E R 0 0 N
R               ThIA~~.,,,&    Eb-r 
-    EQUATOiZIAL         T.,                                                                CONG
ATLANTIC                     ~~~~~GUINEA                               WOLEk   NTEM
OCEAN                     ~~~~~(RIO MUNI)                                                    A
K  -~~~~~~~~~~~~B1g
Coooboocb    - ~~~~~~~~~~~-.. -   ~ ~~~~~  L- ~~M.k..bo
I k o l o  C,A q 6 6                     G                                       U7 'V *     C
NdjolR'9 
OR~~                   0.noroNC~\-onoooo                                                         AkiRn,      R
"I   IN G 0 Li N          ~LolyI ).
b6k6,    oModo                                '       IO      0
mi             M.-~~~~~~~~~~LcoiX NO 
71101                        Mg> J10                   oo,b 
N,~ ~~~~OG
NIGER/f                                                                                                                    /      -
Al.                  ~~~CHAO                                                                ~
A o\  NIGERIA     I                                                            r-/
"AFRICAN REPUBLICo~o~~
MR0  CIARGO.1           RGARBON, ~
I   -~~~~~~~ ~PILOT COMMUNITY  INFRASTRUCTURE
~~  ~~    G~ARON              DEWo, REPUP R DN                                                                       POJC
:ONGO)       CONGO                                                        02   06   O1012   O10KLMTR
ANGORA   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



