Report No. PID6716
Project Name                     Gabon-Pilot Community Infrastructure   (+)
Works and Capacity Building Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Urban Infrastructure
Project ID number                GAPE35626
Borrower                         The Gabonese Republic
Implementing Agencies            PAPSUT, Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 114
Libreville, Gabon
Date initial PID prepared        March 4, 1998
Date revised PID prepared        August 11, 1998
Projected Appraisal date         March 23, 1998
Projected Board Date             n/a (LIL)
1. Country Background. Gabon is sparsely populated, with a relatively high
level of average annual income of about US$3,800 per capita. Although the
country is reasonably well endowed with agricultural land, its economy has
been driven by the exploitation for export of the country's rich timber
resources and by the mining of manganese and uranium. Already in 1970, the
exploitation of natural resources accounted for 30 percent of GDP. Today, the
petroleum sector dominates the economy, representing about 43 percent of GDP,
while value added in agriculture accounts for less than 5 percent of GDP.
2. The impact of the development of extractive industries on the structure of
the economy has taken several forms. While the direct employment effort has
been relatively small (reaching about a fifth of total wage and salary
employment in 1970), it has led indirectly to the development of a substantial
service sector and to a massive rural exodus. The population of Libreville
has increased from 30,000 in 1960 to about 420,000 today. Port Gentil has a
population of about 95,000, Franceville 31,000.    Over 70t of Gabon's
population is urbanized. More importantly, the volume of oil revenues over
the last two decades has enabled the Government to undertake large investments
while substantially expanding the administration's operating budget. Total
government expenditures, including amortization, grew from CFAF 58 billion in
1972 to CFAF 2,512 billion in 1996. In the latter year, public expenditures
amounted to nearly two-thirds of non-oil GDP.
3. Sector Background. The main urban sector issue in Gabon is the development
of urban settlements without basic infrastructure and services: no or poor
access and transit roads, and inadequate drainage and sanitation services in
particular, make living conditions difficult especially during the long rainy
season that characterizes Gabon's climate.   Over 70t of the urban population
lives in three cities, Libreville, Port-Gentil and Franceville. More than half
of the population in these cities live in non-serviced neighborhoods. In a
relatively rich country by African standards (a GDP of about $5,000.00 per
capita), improving living conditions in poor neighborhoods is one of the main
channels to alleviate poverty, and a priority.



4. Insufficient central and local government's focus on poverty alleviation in
the past, excessive central and local budget allocations to large and costly
infrastructure projects in the transport sector, and poor institutional
coordination in urban sector management, have prevented the public sector from
efficiently addressing this issue. Despite Gabon's high rate of urbanization,
budget allocations to support urban management have only amounted to one tenth
of allocations for the construction of interurban and regional roads; although
the economic justification of such roads is debatable (high standard roads, in
particular), and their planning not aimed at supporting a comprehensive rural
development strategy. These problems have been significantly compounded by:
(i) insufficient budget allocations to cover recurrent operation and
maintenance costs of existing and new infrastructure, both at the central and
local levels; and (ii) the inability of end-beneficiaries to sustainably
support the operation and maintenance of such costly infrastructure schemes.
5. Project Objectives. The objective of the project is to design and test
management methods and procedures for carrying out of small scale urban
infrastructure works, in selected poor urban areas, and to disseminate
information on such methods and procedures, in order to strengthen the private
construction sector and increase employment in said sector.
6. Project Description. The proposed project will build the capacity of key
stakeholders -- including communities/beneficiaries, municipalities, local
contractors and engineering firms, local NGOs, and the Borrower -- to carry
out sustainable community infrastructure upgrading in urban Gabon. Local
capacity will be built through the pilot implementation of infrastructure
upgrading schemes in four selected poor neighborhoods in the main cities of
Gabon (Libreville, Port Gentil and Franceville). These pilot schemes will
further test the Transport Project's previously implemented Avea labor-based
approach to road upgrading in poor neighborhoods. In order to develop more
comprehensive, integrated and sustainable approaches to community
infrastructure upgrading, the proposed project will further elaborate on the
Avea concept by introducing community-based planning and design of
microprojects with high positive impact on living conditions in the selected
neighborhoods. To ensure the replicability of the approach and create a
sustained demand for such works, the project will help prepare a pipeline of
similar schemes to be financed, executed and maintained without external
assistance. To that end, the project will include the following components:
(a) capacity strengthening of key stakeholders ($551,039); (b) pilot
community-based infrastructure schemes (US$5,568,570); (c) project monitoring
and evaluation (US$633,303); and (d) support for a longer-term program of
institutional reforms (PROTTIPPEE) (US$622,757).
7. Project Financing. The proposed IBRD loan amounts to FRF 30.4 million.
The Government of Gabon will contribute US$2.4 million (equivalent).
Participating municipalities are expected to contribute an additional US$0.1
million (equivalent) towards local microprojects financing.
8. Project Implementation. The Ministry of Planning (MP) will be the lead
Government agency and IBRD's counterpart for the project. The MP will provide
policy direction, overall project supervision and technical assistance to
project beneficiaries (Municipalities, communities, and private local
contractors) through a central project implementation unit (PAPSUT). As the
ministry in charge of the Public Investment Plan (PIP) preparation and of
donor coordination with regard to this plan, the MP will also head the
-2 -



Steering Committee (SC) which will supervise this project and other projects
included in the PIP. The SC could include, inter alia, the Ministry of
Interior and Local Government, the Ministry of Town Planning and Urban
Affairs, and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport.
9. Activities included in the project will be implemented by PAPSUT (the
implementation unit of the ongoing Transport TA/IBRD-LN. 3777-GA Project).
Existing Municipal Technical Units (MTUs) in each of the three municipalities
will be associated to some project execution tasks, as part of the local
capacity building effort. PAPSUT will, inter alia, procure labor-based road
works, consultants and goods included in the project and provide beneficiaries
(the Municipalities and the communities) with technical assistance for the
preparation of community development plans and neighborhood agreements. On
behalf of the Ministry of Plan, PAPSUT will also be responsible for preparing
a labor-based infrastructure PIP, and for auditing, monitoring and evaluating
the impact of the proposed project. To that end, it will administer a project
account for counterpart funds, and a special account for IBRD funds.
10. Project Sustainability. As it relates to project outcomes, sustainability
of the project will mainly depend on prospects for key stakeholders to be
involved in similar schemes. The replicability of such schemes is therefore
critical to the overall question of sustainability. The bottom-up approach
initiated in the proposed project should create the conditions for easy
replication of such schemes: after the project closes, it is expected that
NGOs, in order to generate their own source of activity as advocate planners
on behalf of communities, will pressure local governments to target poor
communities, to allocate appropriate budget resources to them, and match
communities' in kind or financial participation. Local governments in turn,
are expected to pressure the central government to match communal
participation in infrastructure upgrading in the neighborhoods, if necessary.
As far as small contractors are concerned, the replication and expansion of
community infrastructure upgrading schemes is expected to sustain the activity
of the contractors who will have been involved in the proposed project.
Moreover, the PIP of labor-based works will increase their level of activity
over the years and further ensure their potential involvement in public works
execution. As it relates to project outputs, sustainability refers mainly to
maintenance and financing of recurrent costs for roads and community
infrastructure. It is expected that the participative planning and
implementation process to be carried out under this project will facilitate
the structuring of the community around common concerns and result in a sense
of ownership for community infrastructure. The recurrent costs are low
because of the adequate technology choice and adjustment of infrastructure
standards to what communities can afford. The maintenance cost of roads paved
with concrete cement blocks is almost nil; it involves the replacement of
cement blocks which can be done manually by the community; side drains need
only occasional repair, especially if they are well designed and constructed.
They simply need to be cleaned manually twice a year before rainy seasons, in
the absence of adequate solid waste removal in the catchment area.
11. Lessons Learned. The labor-based urban roads rehabilitation and community-
based infrastructure upgrading successfully implemented in the neighborhood of
Menontin (Cotonou, Benin) under IDA financing (IDA Cr. 2338) has largely
influenced the design of the Avea project which in turn served as a model for
this project. Gabonese officials and civil engineers unanimously chose to
implement the Avea pilot project after having visited the sites in Benin.
-3 -



Other international experience has suggested that key conditions for project
success and sustainability are: (a) the sense of ownership acquired by
beneficiaries through their early involvement in sub-project selection and
financing; and (b) affordable infrastructure standards and appropriate
technologies, which generally entail the use of local materials, local human
resources and construction enterprises, local engineering, and local technical
and social assistance. In the proposed project, communities will be asked to
contribute to subproject financing to up to 10. of microprojects costs; local
technologies and appropriate infrastructure standards will be used. In
addition, the execution of infrastructure upgrading schemes will rely entirely
on local human resources.
12. Poverty Aspects. Several assessments show: (a) that public health
indicators are alarming in the shantytowns, where high morbidity rates
essentially stem from parasitic and infectious diseases that are intrinsically
connected to inadequate drainage and sanitation in a heavy rain environment,
and to inadequate access to safe water and health services; and (b) that
unemployment is high and on the rise, particularly for unskilled workers.
Project design, in order to reduce poverty, has incorporated these concerns by
targeting the shantytowns and by prioritizing road work and supporting related
drainage, while developing local small firms and providing for community
participation.
13. Environmental Aspects. The project was classified as category B in that it
involves paving of existing key urban roads and access roads to the four
selected areas, and will involve small scale road construction and
microprojects. Major negative environmental impacts are not anticipated as a
result of the project itself, or of the construction activities, considering
that: (i) the project will pave existing roads; and (ii) each microproject
will be approved only after a specific environmental assessment will have been
carried out by NGOs supporting the community. A brief assessment of
environmental degradation related to existing roads has indicated that: (i)
environmental degradation such as extensive erosion has been caused by the
inadequate paving and drainage of existing roads; and (ii) current erosion is
likely to worsen and threaten neighboring housing (see project files: Projet
de Travaux d'Interot Public Pour la Promotion de L'Emploi, Rapport de Mission;
B. Peccoud, 9/8/97). In this context, specific measures have been built into
project preparation, bidding, and implementation (as part of TORs, bidding
documents and contracts) to avoid negative environmental impacts and to
improve currently inadequate environmental conditions, including: (a) the
setting of environmental and social standards to avoid environmental
degradation; and (b) the use of environmentally safe construction methods and
techniques.
14. Project Objectives Categories. Capacity building of local stakeholders is
the main objective of the project, which contributes to address two broader
issues that are key to the success of the Government of Gabon's macroeconomic
performance: private sector development and employment generation to alleviate
poverty.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
- 4 -



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



