                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 26004-CO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71340)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                               SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                               June 2, 2003




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                         (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2003)

                                                   Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (COP)
                                Colombian Peso $2,920.70 = US$ 1.00
                                                 US$ 0.0003424 = 1 Colombian Peso

                                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                                   January 1 -        December 31

                                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ARS      Administrator of the Subsidized Regime (Administradora del       MIS          Management Information System
          Régimen Subsidiado)
CAIPS     Centers for Integrated Attention for Pre-School Children         MOF          Ministry of Finance
Cajas     Cajas de Compensación Familiar                                   MOH          Ministry of Health
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                                      MPS          Ministry of Social Protection (Ministerio de
                                                                                        Protección Social)
CNSSS     National Council of Social Security in Health                    NGOs         Non Governmental Organizations
Codhes    Consultancy for Forcibly Displaced Persons and Human Rights      PAC          Annual Caja Plan (Plan Anual de Caja)
          (Consultoria para el Desplazamiento Forzado y los Derechos
          Humanos)
CONPES    National Council of Economic and Social Policy (Consejo          PLRSSAL      Programmatic Labor Reform and Social
          Nacional de Política Económica y Social)                                      Sector Adjustment Loan
DANE      National Administrative Department of Statistics                 QAG          Quality Assurance Group
          (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística)
DNP       Department of National Planning (Departamento                    QER          Quality Enhancement Review
          Nacional de Planeación)
DP        Development Plan                                                 RAS          Safety Net Programs (Red de Apoyo Social)
DTP3      Diphtheria-Tetanus-Pertussis Vaccine                             RSS          Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad
                                                                                        Social)
EN        New School Program (Escuela Nueva)                               SABER        National Evaluation System for the Quality of
                                                                                        Education
EPI/PAI   Expanded Immunization Program                                    SAT          System of Tutorial Learning (Sistema de
                                                                                        Aprendizaje Tutorial)
EPS       Health Promoter Enterprises (Empresas Promotoras de Salud)       SECAL        Social Sector Adjustment Loan
FOSYGA    Solidarity and Guarantee Fund (Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantía)  SENA         National Learning Service (Servicio Nacional de
                                                                                        Aprendizaje)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                                           SER          Rural Education Service (Servicio de Educación
                                                                                        Rural)
GOC       Government of Colombia                                           SFAL         Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development            SINERGIA     National System for Evaluation of
                                                                                        Results of Public Sector Performance
ICBF      Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de   SISBEN       System of Beneficiary Selection (Sistema de
          Bienestar Familiar)                                                           Selección de Beneficiarios)
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank                                  SNSSS        National System of Social Security in Health
IDP       Internally Displaced Population                                  SOH          Superintendent of Health
IMF       International Monetary Fund                                      SRM          Social Risk Management System
INS       National Institute of Health                                     SSR          Social Risk System (Sistema Social de Riesgo)
ISS       Institute of Social Security (Instituto de Seguridad Social)     TOR          Terms of Reference
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean Region                           UPC          Risk Adjustment Premium
MEN       Ministry of Education                                            WBG          World Bank Group




                                                 Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                               Country Manager/Director:                Isabel M. Guerrero
                                 Sector Manager/Director:               Ana-María Arriagada
                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                      Vicente B. Paqueo

                                         COLOMBIA
                                Social Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8 (additional). Partner comments full text                                 36

Project ID: P069861                                                      Project Name: CO- Social Sector Adjustment
Team Leader: Vicente B. Paqueo                                           TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CO- Social Sector Adjustment                             L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71340
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (30%); General education sector (30%); Other social services
                            (30%); General public administration sector (10%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Education for all (P); Other social
                            protection and risk management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/17/2002                                        Effective: 09/17/2002              09/17/2002
   Appraisal:    02/20/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    08/01/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Colombia/Ministry of Finance (Public Credit); Republic of
                                           Colombia/Department of National Planning; Republic of Colombia/and other
                                           agencies
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Cristopher Chamberlin                          Ana María Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Vicente B. Paqueo                              Vicente B. Paqueo
ICR Primary Author:             Vicente B. Paqueo; Tarcisio
                                Castañeda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Colombia Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) was prepared at the end of former President
Andres Pastrana's administration (1998-2002), when the peace process had broken down and Colombia
was suffering from a protracted economic and social crisis. In 1999, Colombia experienced its largest
recession in 70 years with GDP falling by 4.3 percent. The recession was accompanied by a growing fiscal
imbalance with public sector debt rising to close to 50 percent of GDP by 2000. On the social front, the
historical unemployment rate doubled during the late 1990s, inequality continued to rise, and a number of
poverty measures rose dramatically, including a 7 percentage point increase in urban poverty between 1995
and 1999, reversing a decade of poverty reduction progress. Politically, the crisis was accompanied by an
intensification of Colombia's internal conflict, the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people, and a
general increase in violence and insecurity.

The SECAL was designed to encourage and enable the outgoing Pastrana administration's momentum on
several key social reform initiatives that were developed with active World Bank support. The Government
of Colombia (GOC) and the Bank agreed on a broad policy agenda that would support efficiency
improvements with little or no additional budget allocations and several key reforms based on extensive
Economic and Sector Work, carried out jointly between the GOC and the World Bank. The loan was
approved in August 2002, just before inauguration of the current president of Colombia, President Alvaro
Uribe. The SECAL supported a smooth transition based on timely financial support, provided continuity in
Colombia's social sector development, and created an opportunity for the newly-elected government to
commit itself to key social reforms supported by the loan.

The SECAL, a one-tranche loan, was designed to establish a foundation for the expansion of critical
reforms that, combined with follow-up actions, would significantly contribute to the advancement of social
sector strengthening and the political sustainability of fiscal adjustments. The SECAL had three
overarching objectives. These were to:

    (a) Consolidate the current stage of Colombia's Bank-assisted social sector strengthening program
    based on supporting key reforms in education and health and an integrated social risk management
    strategy;
    (b) Encourage the incoming administration to incorporate follow-up activities in its medium-term
    strategic agenda to carry forward the reforms supported by the loan; and
    (c) Provide the GOC with a financial cushion and support for social measures to complement the fiscal
    reforms under the Bank-supported Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL, Loan 7092-CO,
    approved December 2001).

Assessment

The stated objectives of the loan were chosen satisfactorily. These objectives supported the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and given the political and financial circumstances, they were appropriate,
realistic, and responsive to the GOC's priorities.

The SECAL represented the culmination of the GOC's Bank-supported social sector strengthening
activities over previous years (1998-2002). The loan was complemented by the continual engagement of
the Bank with Colombia in support of social protection programs with the Human Capital Protection
Project (Familias en Acción-Families in Action, Loan 7050-CO) and the Community Works and



                                                      - 2 -

Employment Project (Empleos en Acción-Employment in Action, Loan 7017-CO) approved as part of the
Red de Apoyo Social (Social Support Network, RAS) emergency safety net program. Analytical work
included studies such as the Colombia Poverty Report (2002), the Colombia Social Safety Net Assessment
(2002), and Colombia: The Economic Foundation of Peace (2003), which all helped to identify major
social reform areas. The social sector program was also closely coordinated with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). The IDB Social Sector Adjustment Credit was processed in parallel and IDB
financed a complementary Youth Training Project (Jóvenes en Acción), also part of the RAS program.

As a SECAL, the processing and approval was pre-conditioned on maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework. In this respect, the GOC had obtained International Monetary Fund (IMF)
support for its macroeconomic program under a Stand-by Agreement dated January 2003.

In retrospect, the risks of negotiating with and supporting the outgoing administration were widely
recognized and discussed with representatives of the different presidential campaigns during loan
preparation and appraisal and later, with representatives of the new government, who, for the most part,
endorsed the conditions of the SECAL. Simplifying the Loan Policy Matrix could have lowered the project
risk. First, the project could have reduced the numerous specific actions set out as conditions of the
SECAL and the heavy burden on the large number of agencies that had to be mobilized in the preparation
of the project. Second, the project could have lowered the complexity arising from the wide range of
sectoral issues and the large number of central and local government institutions it had to deal with.
However, largely because of the strong ownership and commitment of the GOC, the project was not
impeded by delays in the fulfillment of the policy conditions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Program Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The social reform program under the SECAL consisted of four components, as detailed below and in the
Matrix of Conditions (see Annex 1).

Component 1. Improve Transparency and Citizen's Oversight of Social Programs.
Colombia has traditionally needed effective monitoring and evaluation systems of public sector and
specifically social programs. As a result, many programs of dubious impact continue to be operated at a
great expense to social budgets. Also, the public, particularly the poor, are not well informed about
assistance they can apply for when they are in desperate need of help.

This component was designed to improve the governance of social programs with greater transparency of
their impact and citizens' oversight of their performance through the introduction of a system of impact and
performance evaluations and public monitoring of the GOC's main social sector programs. This
component sought to help the government to address this situation by: (a) completing impact and
performance evaluations of the three newly created RAS safety net programs: Empleos en Acción,
Familias en Acción and Jóvenes en Acción; (b) inducing the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(Colombian Institute for Family Welfare, ICBF) and the Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National
Learning Service, SENA) to enter into the culture of monitoring and evaluation of their main assistance and
training programs; and (c) reinforcing monitoring and dissemination activities of social programs through
SINERGIA (National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Reform), the evaluation unit in the
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (Department of National Planning, DNP).



                                                     - 3 -

Component 2. Develop a Comprehensive Social Risk Management System.
As indicated in the Social Safety Net Assessment, Colombia lacked a coherent social assistance network for
protecting the poor and most vulnerable during crisis times and for addressing the needs of the chronically
poor. Due to the fact that the financing of most social insurance and assistance programs is tied to payroll
contributions, expenditures are highly pro-cyclical. For instance, the budget of ICBF declined by over 10
percent during the recession of 1999 (a much larger decline than GDP), due to the large increase in
unemployment to about 20 percent of labor force.

This component was designed to improve Colombia's state of readiness to assist the vulnerable poor during
times of crisis; strengthen social assistance and insurance to chronically poor during normal times; improve
the quality and coverage of early childhood development services; and assist the internally displaced
population (IDP). The main actions were to: (a) encourage the outgoing and, especially, the incoming
administration to undertake bold steps to create a comprehensive counter-cyclical Social Risk Management
System to protect the poor and vulnerable during crisis times; (b) improve coverage, effectiveness, and
efficiency of ICBF´s main assistance programs; and (c) improve coverage of services to the chronically
poor and displaced populations--a growing problem in Colombia with the intensification of the civil
conflict.

Component 3. Expand Health Insurance Coverage and Support Improvements in Resource Use.
Beginning in 1994 since the implementation of Law 100 (health sector reform), Colombia rapidly expanded
health insurance coverage through the contributory (formal sector) and subsidized (for the poor) regimes.
In 2001, 24 million people or 52 percent of the population were affiliated with the two regimes (13 million
in contributory and 11 million in subsidized). However, the switch from financing public hospitals (the
supply) to financing the demand (health insurance), which provides most of the money for the subsidized
regime, was difficult because of pressures from hospitals and other groups and the lack of efficient hospital
administration. In addition, public health activities have suffered since financing for public health activities
was transferred to health insurance companies and regional governments, without a clear definition of
responsibilities among the different actors. Law 715, enacted in 2001 to improve transfer mechanisms and
define responsibilities to departments and municipalities, corrected these flaws.

This component was designed to improve the health status and reduce financial risks from illness through
the achievement of universal health insurance coverage and the strengthening of the control of
communicable diseases. This component sought to encourage the GOC to: (a) promote further expansion
of the subsidized health insurance regime; (b) improve resource allocation of health sector transfers to
territorial entities through the application of the new formula of Law 715; (c) enhance the supervision role
of the Superintendent of Health (SOH); and (d) increase immunization coverage rates, which had dropped
to dangerous (ineffective) levels in the last few years.

Component 4. Improve Public Education Regulatory Framework.
Colombia's education spending increased rapidly over the last ten years, mainly as a result of the 1991
Constitution, which increased education (and health) resources, and mandated their decentralization to
departments and municipalities. The distribution formula in Law 60 of 1993 did not however, provide
incentives for efficient use of resources and increase coverage, but instead was driven by teacher costs in
each territorial entity. The new formula in Law 715 of 2001 links the transfer of resources to the number
of students attending, the coverage gap, and poverty, therefore creating incentives for increasing coverage
and attending to poor areas.

This component was designed to improve the overall educational status for children through increased


                                                      - 4 -

efficiency and equity in the allocation of resources. This component was proposed to help the GOC to: (a)
implement the new rules of Law 715 regarding resource transfers and support all the necessary measures
(including reorganization of territorial education secretaries, improvement of information systems, etc.)
which are needed for implementation at national and territorial levels; and (b) encourage the GOC to
introduce new service provision alternatives, including contracting out to the private sector and providing
scholarships (vouchers) to poor high performing students.

Assessment

These four components were well identified, each responding to the main sector issues and supporting the
overall project objectives. The main policy actions were developed through extensive sector work and
lessons learned from previous social sector adjustment operations. The Department of National Planning
(DNP), which is responsible for investment and program coordination and for preparation of the four year
Development Plans, coordinated all the components and requirements.

The achievement of these components was linked, to a large extent, to the enactment of laws and
regulations, most of which occurred during project preparation or before Board presentation. Bank staff
and consultants commented on drafts and made suggestions for improvement. Focusing on legislation and
basic institutional building was a judicious decision since it often takes a new administration time to
become informed and produce needed regulations (regulatory decrees and other norms and procedures)
thus, setting the stage for continuation of the reforms and providing the groundwork for faster
implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Project preparation was guided by a rich body of previous sector work in the
areas of the project objectives and there was close coordination with other donors, including the IDB and
the IMF and consultation with stakeholders. Since 1998, the GOC and the Bank were engaged in joint
sector work on poverty, an assessment of social assistance programs, and social protection lending
operations (reports listed in Section 3.1). The focus of the SECAL was to support the legal and basic
institutional underpinnings for the advance of social reforms in health, education, and social protection. In
this regard, the loan was fully consistent with the CAS, since its main objectives for Colombia were to
support the government's objectives, poverty alleviation, social development, and sustainable economic
growth.

To date, there has not been a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the SECAL, one is scheduled for
July 2003. However, the task team requested a Quality Enhancement Review (QER), which reviewed the
rationale for the adjustment operation, its timing, its design, and the substance of the policy matrix. The
QER was carried out by the network anchor, with participation of experts in and outside the sector, and
helped guide the development and implementation of the SECAL. The QER's recommendation focussed on
the risks of a one-tranch adjustment loan at the end of an administration.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                      - 5 -

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its three overarching objectives. The
lending operation encouraged and enabled the outgoing administration to continue its social reform
initiatives until its final days. At the same time, it provided a timely opening for the incoming government
to commit itself to the social reform agenda supported by the lending operation. The new government's
four year Development Plan, 2002-06 "Hacia un Estado Comunitario" (Towards a State Based on
Community Spirit) not only continues, but also extends and deepens many of the SECAL reforms,
including:

     (a) Greater transparency and citizens' oversight by extending this concept to the hiring of high-level
     regional officials of the Instituto de Seguridad Social (Institute of Social Security, ISS), SENA, ICBF
     and new Ministerio de Protección Social (Ministry of Social Protection, MPS) based on merit rather
     than on political considerations, under the "meritocracy" program headed by the Vice-President;
     (b) Implementation of institutional reforms to better coordinate and to increase impact of social
     spending, including health, social assistance and safety nets for the poor and most vulnerable, with the
     creation of the Ministry of Social Protection and the Social Protection Fund;
     (c) Continued expansion of the subsidized health insurance regime and increasing immunization
     coverage for 2002 and 2003; and
     (d) Rapid expansion of secondary and tertiary education and measures to improve efficiency of
     regional education budgets.

Macroeconomic Management

Colombia has a long tradition of prudent and successful macroeconomic management, including good debt
management. Nonetheless, GDP growth has slowed in recent years, with the economy growing by 1.4
percent in 2001 and by about 1.6 percent in 2002. The slowdown in growth is mainly the result of low
private investment levels (reflecting the deterioration of domestic security conditions) and a difficult
external environment. Colombia's traditional exports fell in 2001 and 2002, because of declining petroleum
production (and despite a rise in world oil prices); historically low international coffee prices; and
difficulties in the important Venezuelan market. Supported by prudent macroeconomic management,
declining imports helped maintain a surplus in the trade balance and kept the external current account
deficit under control (at an estimated 1.7 percent of GDP in 2002). Inflation declined in 2002, staying in
the 6-7 percent range over the last 12 months; this allowed the Central Bank to reduce interest rates, which,
along with enhanced prudential regulation helped the financial sector rebound from the significant crisis of
1999.

Over the past half-decade, new realities have emerged in Colombia's fiscal domain, including significant
public sector deficits and large future fiscal liabilities. Total public sector debt in Colombia is at about 56
percent of GDP, while the estimated fiscal deficit for 2002 is 4 percent of GDP. Nevertheless, the Uribe
administration has stressed its commitment to continue the fiscal adjustment efforts of the previous
administration. In December 2002, Congress approved a strong tax package estimated to yield an increase
in tax collections of about 1 percent of GDP in 2003, 1.2 percent in 2004, and 1.7 percent of GDP by
2005. In addition, Congress has already passed two key structural reforms: (a) a strengthened pension
reform to address the looming deficits of the social security sector; and (b) a labor reform to increase
flexibility in Colombia's rigid labor market. The fiscal deficit is expected to come down to 2.5 percent of
GDP in 2003 and 2.1 percent in 2004.

Previous and current administrations have continued to implement sound macroeconomic policies, within
the framework of the agreements with the IMF. The Uribe administration has already undertaken key
reforms to strengthen the fiscal accounts, while the Central Bank and other public bodies continue to


                                                        - 6 -

implement sound policies consistent with the overall policy framework. The GOC requested a new
Stand-by Agreement from the IMF, which was approved by the IMF Board in January 2003. The IMF
program proposes to slow the pace of growth of public expenditures, contain sub-national indebtedness,
and make the pension system more sustainable.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The specific status of each component, as of February 2003, is detailed in Annex 1. An evaluation of
achievement of the outputs by component is discussed below.

1. Transparency and Citizen's Oversight of Social Programs.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The main advances in this component occurred in the evaluation of the three
RAS safety net transfer programs--Familias en Acción, Empleo en Acción, and Jóvenes en Acción. For
Familias and Empleos en Acción programs, baseline surveys were carried out in mid-2002 for
experimental and control groups, and the final surveys and reports are expected during 2003/04. For the
Jóvenes en Acción program (IDB financing), the surveys will be carried out in 2003. More modest
advances occurred in evaluation of ICBF family welfare and SENA training programs. Terms of
Reference were prepared as indicated in the Policy and Evidence Matrix prior to Board Presentation
(Annex G of Program Document and Annex 1), and the studies are being carried out. ICBF and SENA
manage traditional programs, which were expected to be evaluated to assess their impact and
cost-effectiveness.

The institutional development impact of this component is considered Substantial. A coordination group
with responsibility for impact evaluations was created under the SINERGIA group (System of Public
Sector Results Monitoring) in DNP, to coordinate the impact evaluation studies and disseminate results. In
addition, local firms, working with international counterparts, are applying methodologies, statistical
analysis and other aspects of impact evaluation that will strengthen local capacity. Additional coordination
and better engagement in policy dialogue among DNP, the Bank, SENA, and ICBF to show the benefits of
good evaluations will be beneficial for future attempts to introduce impact analysis in these institutions'
programs.

The sustainability of this component is considered Likely. A CONPES (Consejo Nacional de Política
Económica y Social, an authoritative statement of government policy and guidelines issues by the
Legislature's National Council of Social and Economic Policy) was issued in 2002 mandating evaluation
studies for major social programs, including those of SENA and ICBF. Based on this CONPES and the
ongoing successful experiences with evaluation of the RAS programs (Familias and Empleos en Acción),
the GOC needs to develop specific policy measures and technical guidelines regarding the design and
costing of impact evaluations of social programs.

There are two significant issues in this component. First, although the impact evaluations of the RAS
programs are being completed, it is not clear that the other impact evaluations have been accorded the
necessary financial and technical attention for successful design and launching, particularly for the main
social assistance programs (ICBF and SENA) that were identified as needing evaluations by the CONPES
statement and whose evaluations are needed to inform reforms in the social risk management system. The
outgoing administration was unable to commit funds for the following fiscal year, it could only make
budgetary recommendations. Commitments involving financial allocations would have been more effective
if they could have been linked more directly to the budget. Second, SINERGIA has made considerable
advances, but needs to move beyond reporting to engaging both the public and the government more
systematically in order to move effectively toward a system of results-based management. This area is a


                                                     - 7 -

priority for follow-up in the proposed Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector Adjustment Loan
(PLRSSAL).

2. Comprehensive Social Risk Management System.
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. This component largely addressed identified sector issues and progress
was achieved in most areas. The social protection system was expanded and enhanced so that it can better
respond to vulnerability and improve living conditions of the population, particularly the poorest. A
CONPES was elaborated which defined the principal elements of the social protection and assistance
strategy, including the creation of a counter-cyclical Social Protection Fund to finance selected programs
during crisis times to help protect the poor and vulnerable populations. The Social Risk Management
Framework (Sistema Social de Riesgo, SSR) outlined in this CONPES articulated measures to be
undertaken by the RAS programs, ICBF, SENA and other agencies to better and more efficiently respond
to crisis periods and to help the chronically poor and displaced populations.

The institutional development impact of this component is considered Substantial and sustainability is
considered Likely. These ratings are based on four significant advances in this policy area: First, the
Ministerio de Protección Social (Ministry of Social Protection, MPS) was established in February 2003
through a merger of the Ministries of Labor and Health, as part of the government's response to developing
a more integrated and efficient system of Social Protection. The Ministry of Social Protection will oversee
a variety of previously uncoordinated agencies that provide the bulk of social assistance and insurance
protection in Colombia, including ICBF, SENA, ISS, and other agencies in health, labor, and Cajas de
Compensacion Familiar (decentralized social assistance agency that assists low income formal sector
workers and their families). This new ministry forms the institutional backbone of Colombia's new social
risk management system. Second, the Social Protection Fund was created in the Labor Reform Law
enacted in December 2002 to provide financing for social assistance. However, this Law lacked some of
the components detailed in the CONPES, such as the concept that the Fund would accumulate resources in
good economic times (GDP growth over 4 percent per year) to allocate to priority programs when
conditions deteriorate. It is important to note that the concept of earmarking of funds remains controversial
in Colombia, as it creates less flexible budget management, particularly in times of acute budget
constraints. Nonetheless, the new Social Protection Fund will be very important as a potential
counter-cyclical tool since it will manage all RAS funds and others not tied to payroll contributions. Third,
as part of the reform effort to better coordinate social insurance and assistance programs, all three RAS
programs are being transferred from the Presidency to the Ministry of Social Protection. Fourth, a renewed
effort to target poor populations has emerged with the nationwide implementation of the Sistema de
Selección de Beneficiarios (System of Beneficiary Selection, SISBEN) surveys to update municipal
databases (started in January 2003). This effort provides significant improvement in poverty measurement
through an improved SISBEN Index and improvements in administration, auditing, and the regulatory
framework, including sanctions for false information and mismanagement of the system. Although it
remains to be seen however, how effective the MPS will be in coordinating powerful institutions such as
ISS, ICBF, SENA, and Cajas, which have their own earmarked funding, the establishment of the ministry
represents a very important step forward in creating an integrated social risk management system.

Regarding actions related to ICBF, the increase in coverage and efficiency was pursued through: (a)
implementing pilot decentralization and co-financing agreements between ICBF and ten municipalities and
pilot testing of separation of financing and operation; (b) charging for services provided by the Centers for
Integrated Attention for Pre-school Children (CAIPS) to better off children, according to family income; (c)
promoting citizen's oversight and control of ICBF services through the regional offices; and (d) preparing
Terms of Reference and contracting services for improving ICBF´s design of the management information



                                                      - 8 -

system. While the objective of increasing coverage of ICBF services, such as school meals, was achieved
with the help of co-financing arrangements, less progress was made on decentralization of ICBF and
improving efficiency of the institution. The pilot testing of devolving Hogares Comunitarios (informal
daycare centers) to municipal administration and financing faced the legal challenges of how to pay
community mothers. While ICBF can legally pay a bonus or scholarships to community mothers (which is
less than the minimum wage) municipalities are unable do this and would have to pay the minimum wage
plus the other benefits associated with a labor contract. Future efforts need to address this issue and
develop a solution.

ICBF has created oversight committees at the regional level, as required in SECAL. The new ICBF
administration is deepening this process with the creation of Municipal Social Committees to improve
coordination between ICBF and municipal governments. Under Law 715, municipalities were charged with
providing (or contracting the provision) of food assistance (particularly school meals) and childcare
programs, and need to assign budgets for those purposes. Finally, based on the recommendations from the
consultancy contract (a condition of the SECAL), ICBF finished a draft of the design of the information
system that was sent to DNP for its review and approval. Contracting is expected in 2003.

Regarding attention to internally displaced populations (IDP), this was to be accomplished by: (a) adoption
of a common methodology for estimating the size and characterizing the IDP; and (b) adoption of a
time-bound plan for eliminating barriers for access of the IDP to RAS safety net programs. With support
from the Technical Committee established to validate the methodology [participation of the National
Statistical Institute, the Red de Solidaridad Social (Social Solidarity Network, RSS), Codhes (Consultoria
para el Desplazamiento Forzado y los Derechos Humanos, non-governmental organization that works
with internally displaced populations), and Pastorial Social (Catholic social service agency)], 2,800 surveys
in 13 cities will be carried out in the second semester of 2003. Within RAS, the Familias en Acción
program made special efforts to include IDP by accepting their SISBEN scores (or applying new surveys)
from the point of origin. Also, the Development Plan (2002-06) proposes to give special consideration to
IDP in the housing subsidy programs. Given the intensification of the civil conflict in the last few months,
the number of IDP will likely increase and more attention to this problem will be urgently required.

The design of this social protection component raises some issues. First, there may have been too many
conditions (twelve, not including agreements with municipalities) involving a large number of agencies and
making it difficult for DNP and the Bank to keep track of and monitor all activities. Second, there was a
lack of prioritization of those conditions. The component could have been much stronger if a smaller
number of priority conditions (e.g. for ICBF) had been established in support of the main sector and
institutional objectives. Third, since there was a need to improve the legal and institutional framework in
this component (i.e. the social risk management framework and ICBF improvement of incentive structure),
more emphasis should have been given to outputs or outcomes (e.g. number of children 0-7 attended by
ICBF, number of IDP attended by RAS, etc.). It is important to note, however, that the time frame of
SECAL preparation (less than seven months from Initiating Memorandum to Board presentation) was too
short to have strong output-based conditions for ICBF (and other agencies) and reforms to improve
targeting and efficiency of ICBF programs. The proposed Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector
Adjustment operation provides an opportunity for the GOC and the Bank to have in-depth discussions on
these issues.

3. Health Insurance Coverage and Resource Use Improvements.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. In checklist terms, all of the eighteen conditions requiring evidence in the
Policy and Evidence Matrix (Annex G of the Program Document and Annex 1) were met, in timing and
content. As of February 2003, many of these conditions are being implemented and are included in the new


                                                     - 9 -

Government's Development Plan, 2002-06. The GOC expanded health insurance coverage by over one
million people during 2001-02 and is planning to expand coverage of the subsidized regime by five million
people over the four-year period ending in 2006. After a precipitous fall, vaccination rates improved,
reaching the following coverage rates nationwide by the end of 2002: Triple Viral: 93 percent, BCG: 87
percent, and Polio: 83 percent.

The new improved formula for distributing resources to departments and municipalities (which includes the
number of uncovered poor as a distribution criteria) started to be applied in 2002, along with measures to
allocate resources for public health activities to departments and municipalities responsible for public
health (e. g. vaccination). A new law allowed the Superintendent of Health Services (SOH) to charge
supervised agencies a fee to finance supervision activities. By the end of 2002, funds paid by supervised
agencies were providing most of the SOH financing.

The institutional development impact of this component is considered Substantial. The laws and
regulations have established a new institutional framework with a more clear definition of functions and
responsibilities among the different government levels. In addition, the new Ministry of Social Protection
will have a strong coordinating Vice-Ministry (in addition to the Vice-Ministry of Health and Labor
Relations) to help assure horizontal coordination among sectors, regional government agencies, and social
welfare agencies.

The sustainability of this component is considered Likely since laws and regulations aimed at solving
previously identified problems back most of these measures and they were incorporated into the new
Development Plan (2002-06).

The design of this health sector component raises some questions. First, there were eighteen conditions,
which although they were complied with in their entirety, may be considered excessive in other cases.
Many of the conditions related to inputs or processes (which were well understood by the GOC and the
Bank as evidenced by the large amount of high quality sector work), could have been eliminated to focus
more specifically on outputs and targets. For instance, this component could have concentrated on targets
for immunization coverage, financial allocations for the Superintendent of Health, and supervision, leaving
the GOC more latitude on the precise ways it achieved agreed targets. However, as previously indicated,
the timeframe of SECAL preparation was considered too short to have measurable outputs as conditions,
all of which, had to be met before Board presentation and loan effectiveness. In the proposed
Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector Adjustment Loan, the GOC and the Bank are concentrating
efforts on measurable outputs as loan conditions. Second, the component design could have benefited from
a better definition of priorities. Given the magnitude of the identified health sector problems, priorities
could have been ranked beginning with immunization coverage, coverage of the subsidized regime, and
supervision activities of the Superintendent of Health.

4. Public Education Regulatory Framework.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. As described below, all conditions under this component were met and all have
supported the objectives of the previous government and the new administration. The new distribution
rules of Law 715 started to be applied in 2002. There is a strong commitment of the new authorities in the
Ministry of Education to help territorial Secretaries of Education rationalize their education spending,
particularly the teaching force. The Ministry of Education has started the design and implementation of
information systems at the national and territorial levels and these information systems will be key to
implementation of the new formula and for monitoring and supervision activities. Rules and regulations to
be applied by territorial entities for contracting out education services to private providers were established
and a large number of student places in primary and secondary education (about 640,000) are proposed to


                                                       - 10 -

be created through contracting service agreements with private sector providers and scholarships (demand
subsidy) in the Development Plan (2002-06). Finally, the Ministry of Education plans to expand rural
education by 60,000 places during 2002-06 through innovative models (Education Services Portfolio,
including pre-school; Escuela Nueva, (approach to primary education designed for multi-grade schools in
rural areas); Telesecundaria (Telesecondary); Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial (System of Tutor
Learning, SAT), etc.) supported by the loan.

The institutional development impact of this component is considered Substantial. The Ministry of
Education is providing technical assistance to territorial Secretaries of Education and designing and
implementing information systems to support implementation of the new distribution formula and for
monitoring and evaluation purposes. Unlike in the past, now that distribution of resources will be based on
number of students attending, coverage gaps, and poverty indicators, good information systems are
fundamental. Significant efforts will be needed to ensure the accuracy of information provided. Efforts by
the central Ministry of Education will be concentrated in the 42 decentralized municipalities and in
Departmental Secretaries of Education, which will support the municipalities still not decentralized.
Institution building at national and territorial levels is a complex task, as evidenced by the slow progress
achieved since 1994 when Law 60 started to be implemented. Possible political interference at all
government levels and the continued change of authorities could impede rapid progress in these areas.

The sustainability of this component is considered Likely, since most of these changes have occurred
through Law 715, a statutory law that required enactment of a Constitutional change. In addition, through
the same law, beginning in January 2003, financing was decentralized, beginning with a pilot project in 42
municipalities with over 100,000 residents (over 70 percent of the student population). The Ministry of
Education has established agreements with municipal and departmental Secretaries of Education for
technical assistance and debt restructuring in the education sector, conditional on restructuring and
efficiency improvements of education services. These measures provide assurances that these positive
changes should be maintained in the future.

There are two issues that deserve attention. First, as in the other components, there may have been too
many conditions and a lack of prioritization of those conditions. Second, the emphasis on inputs and
processes may have been appropriate in this component, since major restructuring was needed to improve
efficiency of the sector. For the future, as Law 715 begins to be fully operational, more emphasis will need
to be placed on outputs or outcomes of the education sector since territorial entities will need to comply
with restructuring agreements signed with the Ministry of Education. This output-based approach is being
pursued in the ongoing preparation of the proposed Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector
Adjustment operation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

ICR Rating: Substantial. Considerable progress was made in setting up mechanisms that provide greater
institutional support to each of the program's stated objectives. The SECAL supported institutional
development impacts in three areas to improve: (a) citizen's oversight of social programs and community
participation; (b) the institutional setting for coordinating and making social protection more effective for



                                                       - 11 -

the poor and most vulnerable populations; and (c) the efficiency of health and education spending though a
better allocation formula to departments and municipalities, based on services rendered rather than on
historical costs. Assessment of the institutional development impact for each component is described in
Section 4.2.

The new Ministry of Social Protection will be a strong force in helping coordinate insurance and assistance
schemes for protecting the poor and vulnerable populations. The Ministry will coordinate ISS, ICBF, and
SENA actions to better manage insurance and assistance programs. The responsibilities assigned to the
Board of Directors of these various agencies have still not been changed. The Social Protection Fund is
potentially a strong arm of the MPS to direct social spending and assistance to MPS priorities and respond
quickly to crises or other emergency events. However, it will depend on a strong minister to secure
allocations from the general budget and/or to control spending earmarked to ISS, ICBF, SENA, and Cajas
de Compensación Familiar.

Law 715 (health reform and new model of education transfers, 2001) provides major improvements over
Law 60 (decentralization of health and education resources, 1993) on the distribution formula and the
definition of responsibilities for different government levels. It provides better incentives to territorial
entities to reform their institutions and to increase coverage and improve services. Municipalities are free
to allocate teachers and apply personnel actions in their territories. Municipal and Departmental
Secretaries of Education and Health are pressed to improve performance and show results, and many cities,
especially the larger ones, such as Bogotá and Medellin, are becoming models of efficient administration.

Finally, in terms of citizens´ participation and oversight, the project promoted extensive impact evaluation
studies for major social assistance and safety net programs and wide dissemination of results. It also
promoted the expansion of monitoring activities of ICBF by local governments and the strengthening of the
SINERGIA ex-post evaluation unit of the DNP. While impact evaluations of the three RAS programs
have been or will be undertaken, other programs such as SENA´s training programs and ICBF´s assistance
programs have not yet started to be evaluated. Efforts made to evaluate RAS programs have, nonetheless,
served to improve SINERGIA's capacity to design, contract, and follow-up on impact evaluation studies,
activities that were not done previously. It remains to be seen if SENA and ICBF can enter into the culture
of scientific evaluation studies and provide adequate funding for those studies. Regarding citizens'
participation, ICBF is promoting the creation of Social Policy Coordination Committees in most
municipalities to coordinate ICBF actions and budget with local planning and budgeting processes.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The SECAL was prepared at the end of the Pastrana administration (2002-06), when Colombia was
experiencing difficult economic conditions and acute budget constraints. The loan was approved in August
2002, just when the new government was taking office and, thus, it inherited the challenge of putting in
place and starting implementation of these reforms. The pace of implementation has proceeded rapidly and
so far, the objectives have been reached. This is due to two factors. First, during preparation, both the
GOC and the Bank agreed on a broad policy agenda that would support efficiency improvements with little
or no additional budget allocations. Thus, the main focus of the loan was to support landmark reforms,
such as the reform of the transfer Law 60. Second, these reforms had been proposed for a long time by
local experts, academics, and Bank-supported Economic and Sector Work, but had not been passed
because of the opposition of vocal groups (teachers, health sector workers, among others). The Pastrana
administration had the opportunity and the backing of Congress to reform the law (which required a



                                                      - 12 -

Constitutional change).




                           - 13 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The incoming administration of President Uribe was quick to begin implementation of most of the reforms
and to establish a foundation for strengthening and deepening those regulations at the central and local
levels. Most education coverage expansion will be derived from savings and restructuring of the teacher
force and other inputs. Similarly, in health, the proposed rapid expansion of the subsidized regime will have
to result from increased allocations of the health budget to "demand subsidies" away from direct payments
to hospitals. There is a hospital restructuring plan and legal initiatives to eliminate the bailout of public
hospitals, which commonly run deficits by the end of each year. In terms of social protection, the GOC
proposes to improve coordination and efficiency of assistance spending under one roof: the MPS. The
challenge is now to implement these measures and to design effective instruments to achieve coordination
and improved efficiency.

In addition, the government was successful in providing an appropriate macroeconomic environment for the
reform program. The GOC implemented a stringent fiscal adjustment to reduce fiscal deficits, in
accordance with its Stand-by Agreement with the IMF approved in January 2003. The government
proposes to contain the expansion of public expenditures at the national level, control the growth of debt by
territorial entities, and control the growth of expenditures on pensions. Control of the growth in spending,
in addition to increased revenues brought about by the fiscal reform of December 2002 and the pension
reform of January 2003, are expected to reduce the consolidated public sector deficit from 4.0 percent of
GDP in 2002 to 2.4 percent of GDP in 2003 and 2.1 percent of GDP in 2004, according to the
Development Plan (2002-06).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

DNP coordinated the entire package of loan conditions and provided coordination with the Bank, IDB, IMF
and stakeholders.. The implementing agencies, including the Ministries of Health, Education, SENA, ICBF
and selected departments and municipalities (which had subscribed agreements with the Ministry of
Education to restructure Education Secretaries, and with ICBF for coordination of assistance programs)
have continued implementation of the measures supported by the loan. Despite changes of personnel at the
top, many key officials have stayed in their posts ensuring the continuation of activities under the loan.
One important aspect is that regional governments did not change at the same time that the national
government did, making it easier for the continuation of the reforms undertaken with sub-national
governments.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Likely. Sustainability ratings are provided for each component in Section 4.2. The Uribe
administration proposes to implement most of the components of the reform program, as stated in the
Development Plan (2002-06), which will remain in effect for the next three and a half years. In addition,
Law 715 is a statutory law so it is unlikely that it will be changed in the near future. This law provides an
overall framework for the transfer of resources for health and education mandated by the National



                                                     - 14 -

Constitution. Departments and municipalities have to start rationalization of their health and education
agencies to conform to the new distribution rules. The creation of the new Ministry of Social Protection
provides a strong institutional focus for coordination of social insurance and social assistance spending.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Preparation of the SECAL was preceded by substantial high-quality sector
work and previous project lending on related social protection and poverty areas. Support through SECAL
was seen as complementary to investment loans in the social areas in the portfolio and in the pipeline at the
time (see page 2.) The preparation process consisted of joint work and substantive discussions with
proposed implementation agencies, including DNP, the Ministries of Education and Health, SENA, and
ICBF, and visits to selected departments and municipalities. Key components, such as the implementation
of new rules for inter-governmental transfers, were a deepening of previous conditions under the
Bank-supported Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL), which proposed to reduce the rate of growth
of transfers to departments and municipalities and apply fiscal restrictions at all government levels.

As part of sector work in social protection, project preparation benefited from results of surveys of
beneficiaries and studies of the most vulnerable people, displaced populations, and of people most affected
by the economic crisis of 2000/01. Also, previous sector work had identified issues affecting the
implementation of the original decentralization law (Law 60 of 1993), many of which were addressed by
Law 715, and generated a number of actions to be carried out under the Loan Agreement. The risks of
preparing and negotiating a one-tranche adjustment loan with an administration that was leaving office
were all recognized and discussed with government authorities. These risks were worth taking given that
most candidates during the presidential campaign and the team of the President-elect supported the
conditions put forward in the loan. The long-lasting technical engagement of Bank staff (from
Headquarters and the Colombia Office) with Colombian policy makers at DNP, academic institutions, and
the research community was important for identifying issues critical for Colombia's reform process, and
for the continuation of implementation of the reforms in the new government.

Coordination with the IDB was close and appropriate in two main areas. First, the SECAL was processed
in parallel with IDB´s Social Sector Adjustment Loan. A few critical conditions were shared between the
two loans, but most of them were complementary, particularly in the field of social protection where the
two Banks have shown active cooperation with sector work and joint loan operations (e.g. the Human
Capital Protection and Community Works and Employment Projects approved in 2000/01). Second, this
coordination continued during the implementation phase of the SECAL when IDB was involved in
preparation of two IDB loans (the Emergency Loan and the Fiscal Sustainability Program), both to be
approved in 2003, which will support the GOC's implementation of ongoing reforms in health, education
and social protection. In social protection, the IDB has supported the updating of SISBEN and the
protection of key social assistance programs from budget cuts in 2003 and 2004.

7.2 Supervision:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Since this was a one-tranche operation, the major supervision task was to help
smooth the transition to the new administration and ensure ownership of the loan components. Most of the


                                                     - 15 -

work has occurred jointly with DNP and Education, Health and Labor (Social Protection) line ministries,
and affiliated organizations, such as SENA and ICBF in the context of the proposed Programmatic Labor
Reform and Social Sector Adjustment follow-up loan requested by the GOC. This new loan will deepen
the reforms supported by the SECAL and will support implementation of major labor reform legislation
passed by Congress in December 2002. Although substantial progress was achieved in implementation of
the SECAL, the extent of the deepening of the reforms remains to be seen, especially in the restructuring of
hospitals, regional education bodies, and the implementation of the new Ministry of Social Protection.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, Bank performance has been satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Borrower preparation was satisfactory, particularly considering the large
number of loan conditions. Many of these conditions required preparation and approval of CONPES and
regulatory decrees, which typically require extensive negotiations by DNP with the parties involved, and
active participation of the Council of Ministers and the President. DNP and the Ministry of Finance were
active coordinating partners with the Bank to produce the numerous pieces of evidence required before
Board presentation and loan effectiveness. The Ministries of Health and Education, along with staff from
ICBF, produced the required regulatory decrees, resolutions and other normative acts, including
performance agreements with territorial entities. Many officials from these government agencies are now
involved in the implementation process of the reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Government implementation performance was satisfactory, particularly since
there was a change of administration. The change of administration did not affect implementation
adversely; to the contrary implementation was enhanced. Despite this change, there have not been
noticeable delays in implementation and further deepening of the reforms has taken place as described in
the government's letter of Developmentt Policy that was an annex to the Program Document. The
Government maintained a satisfactory macro-economic framework and ensured continued commitment to
the agreed sectoral policies and the program. The actual situation for each condition, as of February 2003,
is detailed in Annex 1.

Advances were particularly noticeable in implementation of the new rules for distribution of resources to
departments and municipalities and the issuance of norms to help implement those changes, particularly
related to information systems and contracting out education services to the private sector to expand
coverage, among others. Also, important advances were produced in evaluation systems and in
dissemination of information regarding public programs, including the subsidized regime of the health
sector. Regarding social protection, a Social Protection Fund (a condition of both the SECAL and IDB
Social Sector Loan) is currently being regulated and it will be very important to provide counter-cyclical
funding to selected programs. However, intensified attention and leadership at the top will be needed to
carry out and implement these reforms that put social protection as a main backbone of social policy in
Colombia.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                    - 16 -

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. DNP had a
strong coordinating team that was able to maintain the many implementing agencies and conditions on
track. The implementing agencies were able to implement reforms that, in many cases, are now an integral
part of their routine. The changes in leadership with the new administration have not affected
implementation. Most managers have become familiar with the proposed changes and have further
improved these changes. With the renewed impetus the new government has given to the reforms, it
appears there is not yet a reform fatigue, which often occurs when reform efforts take place over many
years, as has been the case with health and education sectors in Colombia.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Integrated Social Protection Support. This loan was part of a continuum of actions implemented by
the GOC in the social sector over several years, with support from the Bank, through previous and
expected sector work, adjustment loans, and investment operations. This support created the conditions for
the GOC to rationalize and integrate the social protection functions and to improve efficiency and
effectiveness of service delivery to poor and vulnerable populations. The SECAL not only addressed broad
social protection management issues, but also included specific attention to one of the most vulnerable
groups in Colombia, the internally displaced populations.

2. Value of Joint Sector Work. The strong involvement of the GOC with the Bank to produce high-quality
joint sector work was very important for the design and the achievement of the program objectives of the
loan. Sector work permitted the GOC and the Bank to develop a deep and common understanding of issues
affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of social spending and of the institutions in charge of delivering or
financing services. For instance, several reports in the mid-to-late 1990s focused on the tremendous growth
and lack of equity of inter-governmental transfers for health and education. These issues started to be
addressed when Congress passed Law 715 in 2001 and implementation was supported by the Structural
Fiscal Adjustment Loan, approved near the beginning of 2002, preceding the SECAL. Another example is
the comprehensive Social Safety Net Assessment, which led to specific recommendations on the need to
improve social risk management framework, ICBF assistance programs, and the assistance to vulnerable
groups and displaced populations.

3. Appropriate Reforms. The SECAL focused on structural reforms that the GOC was willing to carry
out to improve the institutional underpinnings of the social sector. For example, this was the case of the
consolidation of the health sector reform (Law 100 of 1993), creating the insurance system for the poor
(subsidized regime), which the GOC was willing to rapidly expand.

4. Continuity of Bank Team. The continuity of the Bank team working on human development reforms
was valuable in terms of building a consensus on the need and desirability of supporting those reforms
among the outgoing and incoming governments and the Bank. The team was able to support follow-up
programmatic lending operations and analytical work for the medium-term to deepen and extend the
implementation of the structural reforms and to focus on outputs and outcomes.

5. Strategic Choices and Trade-offs. The design of a sector adjustment loan must balance the
establishment of policy conditions with a realistic assessment of the expected objectives and what can be
accomplished in the available timeframe. The SECAL may have benefited from a smaller number of
conditions and prioritization of those conditions to facilitate preparation and follow-up activities by the



                                                     - 17 -

GOC and the Bank, and to allow the implementing agencies to concentrate on the most important
conditions. However, the option of including stronger conditions in return for a smaller matrix was not
realistic, given the political timing of the loan. Ultimately, even the "minor" conditions were highly useful
in terms of keeping the new administration aware of the wide range of issues that needed to be followed by
subsequent operations.

6. Social Protection Framework Monitoring Options. Specific output or target indicators should be
considered to evaluate the long-term impact of reforms in selected social protection programs and the
service provision to the poor and vulnerable populations. The fast-track timing of this SECAL led to a
focus mainly on process and input indicators and prevented the inclusion of measurable outputs as
conditions since all of them would have had to be met prior to Board presentation and loan effectiveness.
Many of these output indicators are now being addressed through the proposed Programmatic Labor
Reform and Social Sector Adjustment Loan operation.

7. Prioritization of Sector Problems. In a situation where there are numerous, significant, and complex
problems affecting a social sector, such as the health sector in Colombia, the project design would benefit
from a prioritization of identified problems in the Policy Matrix. For example, in this SECAL, this might
have begun with immunization coverage, subsidized insurance coverage, and the supervision of the
Superintendent of Health.

8. Addressing Major Sector Restructuring Needs. When there is a need for major restructuring of a
social sector to improve efficiency, such as the education sector in Colombia, a more limited focus on
inputs and processes in the Policy Matrix is appropriate. Only when the major reforms are fully
operational, would a discussion of output-based indicators be indicated. In this case, the output-based
approach is being pursued under the proposed Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector Adjustment
operation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The full text of Borrower comments is included as Annex 8. The GOC provided a summary description of:
a) the achievement of each project objective, including social and macroeconomic objectives; b) assessment
of conditions achieved, as specified in Table 4.1 of the Policy Matrix (and Annex G) of the SECAL Loan
Agreement; and c) lessons learned with respect to the scope of the project objectives and conditions, among
other aspects.

One of the risks referred to in the Report of the President of the World Bank to the Board of Executive
Directors related to the timing of loan approval and the change of government, which raised questions
about the continuity of the reforms agreed in the policy matrix. That risk did not materialize, and as noted
earlier the reforms and objectives in the policy matrix have been implemented and indeed strengthened in
the National Development Plan. In other words, the objectives established in the medium-term framework
of Table 4.1 of the Policy Matrix in the loan agreement have been backed by the new government and are
part of its priorities, as announced in the development plan.

The Social Protection and Security System that the present government plans to implement seeks to protect
the most vulnerable through the articulation, coordination and execution of existing programs as well as
new social programs, accompanied by financing mechanisms to guarantee their timely delivery.




                                                       - 18 -

In the health area, the plan calls for increasing insurance coverage and for achieving and maintaining
vaccination coverage rates above 95 percent for children under age five, under all categories of the
Expanded Immunization Program.

In education, expanded coverage goes hand-in-hand with the objective of improving the quality and
efficiency of the system, by redefining the resource allocation structure, among other measures.

Finally, the National Development Plan calls for a broad dissemination campaign to publicize the results
from monitoring the commitments established by the entities through the CONPES, as well as the outcomes
of the targeted evaluations of government programs. By articulating the components of monitoring,
targeted evaluations and dissemination, the National System for the Evaluation of Results will become a
tool for increasing the effectiveness and transparency of government management, enhancing the efficiency
of expenditure, improving the design of government policies and programs, and involving the public at the
various stages of administration.

Lessons Learned

With respect to performance of the GOC, the government feels that the loan was successful for several
reasons: a) it was properly prepared, despite the short time that elapsed from the first mission until
approval by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on August 1, 2002 (approximately seven months); b)
the economic and political risks cited in the Bank President's memorandum to the Board did not materialize;
c) given the short preparation time and the involvement of the various government entities, leadership by
the DNP, as the agency responsible for the loan, was important in terms both of coordination and of the
technical support provided to those entities; d) permanent communication between the DNP and the Bank;
and e) continuity of the actions agreed in the policy matrix, which have received the backing of the new
government.

With respect to performance of the Bank, it is important to note: a) the Bank supported the government
both in implementing the structural (and non-cyclical) reforms of the social sector and in establishing a
social safety net; b) the constant technical support received from the Bank, not only from the task manager
and his team but also through the Japanese grant and the joint study on the "Social Safety Net
Assessment"; c) the confidence that the Bank contributed in the political context of a changing government;
and d) the smooth flow of communication between the Bank and the government.

In general, other difficulties that arose, although they were overcome, revolved around the short preparation
time for the loan. Given the pressure to fulfill the conditions within the established time limit, any delay in
improving internal procedures for managing external loans could have delayed approval of the loan beyond
the established time limit. Moreover, that time limitation, coinciding with the end of the Bank's fiscal year,
prevented greater development and execution of the Bank's non-reimbursable financial support.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                      - 19 -

          Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


      Tranche Release            Specifications and Definitions                  Evidence            Documents in File          Actual Situation
          Conditions                                                                                                            (February 2003)

A. General Condition of       The fact that the macroeconomic          The Bank staff, in                                   IMF Stand-by Agreement,
the SECAL                     framework of the Republic of Colombia consultation with the                                   2002-2004.
                              is consistent with the objectives of the government and the IMF,
The macroeconomic             program (as described in the             will exchange views on the
framework of the Republic     government's Letter of Development       macroeconomic
of Colombia is consistent     Policy sent to the Bank) implies that    performance, and will assess
with the objectives of the    the macroeconomic program supported progress in the program's
program.                      by the IMF's three-year extended         implementation through
                              arrangement facility (approved in        exchange of information via
                              December 1999) is on track. The          e-mail and missions to
                              macroeconomic program is considered Colombia.
                              to be on track if the quarterly
                              performance criteria--namely, the
                              overall fiscal deficit of the combined
                              public sector, the inflation targets, the
                              net international reserves, the increase
                              in medium- and long-term debt, and the
                              issuance of guarantees by the public
                              sector for private external debt--were
                              observed; and the Bank staff is satisfied
                              with the overall progress of the program
                              as defined in the Letter of Development
                              Policy.
Transparency and citizens'
oversight of social
programs

1.  Introduction of a system 1i. With respect to the periodic impact 1i. Official copy of approved 1i) CONPES No. 3188- 1i) CONPES defined
of impact and performance     and performance evaluations, the GOC CONPES.                          Evaluación de Impacto general framework for
evaluations and public        will have issued a CONPES defining                                    de Programas Sociales evaluations, programs to
monitoring of Colombian       the norms for the periodic evaluations,                               01-08-2002              be included and scope,
Government's (GOC) main including: (i) which programs will be                                                               but failed to define
social sector programs.       subject to impact evaluations; (ii) the                                                       periodicity, norms and
Approved CONPES               scope and content of the performance                                                          responsibilities for the
establishing: (i) periodic    assessments; (iii) how often the                                                              evaluations.
impact and performance        evaluations will take place, (iv) what
evaluations of the main       elements will be considered in the
social sector programs        evaluations, and (v) norms and           1.i. Official copy of a      1i) Document of budget 1i) For Empleos en
financed by the national      responsibilities for carrying out the    document showing resource allocation for impact      Acción, and Familias en
government; and (ii) public evaluations, particularly in order to      allocation in the 2003       evaluation of RAS       Acción there are contracts
monitoring to improve social ensure objectivity and policy relevance. proposed budget and terms programs. For SENA          and the process of
sector transparency and       Initially the periodic evaluations will  of reference for: impact and and ICBF impact         evaluation started. For
accountability. The system be conducted on Colombia's main             performance evaluation       evaluations there is a  Jovenes en Acción; the
will be launched through: (i) social assistance and training programs: work of the 3 RAS safety     general budget assigned contract is about to be
impact and performance        the Red de Apoyo Social (RAS) safety net, the main ICBF               for social reform       signed, ICBF and SENA
evaluations of the main       net programs (conditional cash transfer, (Colombian Institute for     (31-07-2002). There     contracting processes have
ICBF family welfare, RAS      workfare and youth training), the main Family Welfare), and SENA are TORs for impact          not been done.
safety net transfer and       ICBF nutrition and day care programs, (National Training Service) evaluation of RAS
SENA training programs;       and the main SENA training programs, programs.                        programs (Familias (no
and (ii) the establishment of with results to be produced in 2004.                                  date), Jovenes (no
a system of public            The results should provide information                                date), Empleos
monitoring of social sector   on not only reforms to the individual                                (12-2000)), SENA
programs to improve           programs under evaluation, but also to                               (07-2002 ) and ICBF



                                                                       - 20 -

transparency and              the network of social assistance and                                    programs (09-2001).
accountability through the    training programs as a whole.
dissemination of monitoring
and evaluation results and    1ii. With respect to the public            1.ii. Official copy of a     1.ii) CONPES 3188
consultation with civil       monitoring activities, a CONPES will       document (DNP) showing       defined actions for
society. [A CONPES is an      have been issued defining (i) the form resource allocation in the       disseminating public     1.ii) With respect to
authoritative statement of    and content of the public monitoring       2003 proposed budget and     activities (01-08-2002). public monitoring
government policy and         activities, building on the information    terms of reference for:                               activities CONPES 3188
guidelines issued by the      established by SINERGIA (the system dissemination and                   Document with budget defined the development
Legislature's National        of public sector results monitoring);      consultation activities for  allocation for 2003      of a system of citizen
Council of Social and         and (ii) norms and responsibilities for    public monitoring activities.(30-7-2002) and TOR participation through
Economic Policy.]             managing the dissemination and                                          for contracting out and SINERGIA for evaluating
                              consultation activities. The public                                     design of system for     performance of public
                              monitoring activities will be launched                                  public monitoring        actions. It defines ways to
                              through regular, specific dissemination                                 activities.              disseminate performance
                              (websites, press releases, etc.) and                                                             of public activities but it
                              consultation (town hall meetings,                                                                failed to define norms and
                              opinion polls, etc) measures outlined in                                                         responsibilities or time
                              the time-bound action plan included in                                                           bound action plan.
                              the CONPES. Public information                                                                   The new Development
                              campaigns to make citizens aware of                                                              Plan (DP) gives high
                              the resources should also be included.                                                           priority to strengthening
                                                                                                                               of community
                                                                                                                               participation in definition,
                                                                                                                               execution and oversight of
                                                                                                                               public activities (Chap IV,
                                                                                                      TOR for international    P. 183).
                                                                                                      seminar of evaluation.
                                                                                                      (No date).               Seminar was carried out
                                                                                                                               on 09-2002.
Social Safety Net

2. Development of a           2. The SRM system will be detailed in 2. Official copy of approved 2. CONPES No. 3187            2. CONPES and DP
comprehensive Social Risk     either a CONPES or decrees (`decretos CONPES on the design and Desarrollo                        establish a Social Risk
Management System,            reglamentarios').                          implementation of a Social   Institucional del        Management System,
including: norms for its role The discussion of the SRM in times of Risk Management System,           Sistema Social de        including: norms for its
in normal and crisis periods, crisis should specify: (i) characteristics with a time-bound action     Riesgo y del Fondo de    role in normal and crisis
including a system for        of the crisis that would trigger the       plan.                        Equilibrio y Protección  periods and this will be in
maintaining/ expanding the expansion of the SRM; (ii) norms                                           Social (31-07-2002)      charge of the Ministry of
coverage of pre-qualified     governing the expansion of                                                                       Social Protection. A
programs during crisis        pre-qualified programs during crisis                                                             Social Protection Fund
periods using emergency       periods using emergency financing                                                                will finance projects for
financing; and the function (either from the social protection                                                                 most vulnerable in crisis
of and relationship between stabilization fund or alternative sources                                                          periods (Chap. III, P.
social assistance and         such as international lending if the                                                             156-7). The DP proposes
insurance programs.           stabilization fund is undercapitalized);                                                         a policy directed to
                              (iii) rules governing the protection of                                                          protect human capital of
                              pre-identified social programs during                                                            infancy of the poor and
                              crises; and (iv) guidelines governing                                                            vulnerable groups (P.
                              how to target populations affected by                                                            149). The DP defines
                              the crisis.                                                                                      SISBEN I and II
                              The discussion of the SRM during                                                                 populations as the
                              normal times should include: (i)                                                                 beneficiaries of public
                              incentives for improving the targeting                                                           family welfare programs
                              of social programs, including                                                                    prioritizing children less
                              incentives for the regular and effective                                                         than 5 years starting in
                              application of SISBEN, the                                                                       2004 (P. 150).
                              prioritization of expansion of program
                              coverage among SISBEN 1 and 2




                                                                         - 21 -

                             populations, and norms for targeting
                             the non-structural poor; (ii) steps to be
                             taken in the future to achieve a more
                             efficient and effective SRM system,
                             outlining areas to build on current
                             reform efforts.
                             The discussion of the SRM will
                             recognize (i) the inclusion of both
                             social assistance and social insurance
                             programs in a comprehensive SRM that
                             function in both crisis and normal
                             periods and (ii) the role of subsidized
                             health insurance and the pension
                             solidarity fund that are social insurance
                             programs with a safety net role.
                             The document will specify and assign
                             areas of action and investigation for the
                             development of a comprehensive SRM
                             system.

3. Improving the coverage, 3. To meet this condition, ICBF will       (3i) Official copies of      3i) About twenty         3i) DP establishes
effectiveness and efficiency have (i) developed a pilot to            agreements (`convenios')     co-financing agreementsagreements between MEN
of ICBF through (i) a pilot  decentralize and separate financing      between ICBF and each        between municipalities and ICBF to improve
decentralizing and separatingfrom provision of ICBF services in 10    participating municipality   and ICBF for provision quality of childcare
financing from provision in municipalities; (ii) received ICBF        concerning the establishment of different services.   centers (Chap. III, P. 126).
10 municipalities; (ii) ICBF Board approval of cost-recovery norms of the decentralization pilot                            It also indicates the need
board approval and           to be applied in CAIPS formal day care project; copy of evaluation                             to restructure ICBF to
implementation of a          program and holding of workshop with reports approved by the                                   specialize its function as a
cost-recovery policy based onregional offices concerning new norms; National Planning                                       managerial and technical
sliding-scale fees graduated and (iii) launched a policy established Department (DNP) regarding                             agent, and to decentralize
by income from users of      by the ICBF Board requiring each ICBF physical and financial                                   the operation in territorial
CAIPs formal day-care        regional office to submit an analysis of progress relative to targets                          entities and community. It
centers; (iii) improved      what has been done and time-bound        established for separating                            proposes evaluation of
monitoring through the       action plan for the strengthening of     financing from provision.                             different administration
launching of a citizens'     citizens' oversight actions (Veeduria                                                          alternatives for ICBF
oversight plan in each ICBF Cuidadana), with an accompanying                                                                centers through NGOs
regional office; and (iv) a  ICBF central office led evaluation of the                                                      (Chap. III, P. 150).
technical review of the      implementation of action plan; and (iv)
management information       developed terms of reference and         (3ii) Official copies of a   3ii) Agreement No.
system.                      launched a technical review of the       letter from ICBF Board       005, establishing the
                             management information system.           stating adoption and         compensation rate and
                                                                      describing implementation    other dispositions for
                                                                      (physical and financial      the integrated attention
                                                                      progress) of new             to children under age 7
                                                                      cost-recovery policy.        in households
                                                                                                   (03-04-2002).

                                                                      (3iia) Official copy of ICBF 3iia) Two memos from
                                                                      directive to the regional    the Director of Regional
                                                                      offices to present plans for offices. These were sent
                                                                      improvement of social        to regions asking for the
                                                                      control.                     citizens' oversight plan
                                                                                                   (10-12-2001 and
                                                                                                   25-07-2002).

                                                                                                   3iib)Twenty-eight        3iib) DP proposes the
                                                                      (3iib) Official copy of      action plans (Matrix) of implementation of local
                                                                      citizens' oversight plans    regional and local ICBF surveys to promote
                                                                      from at least 65% of ICBF    offices. They            community participation




                                                                      - 22 -

                                                                        regional offices;              correspond to over 65% in the design of infancy
                                                                        corresponding letter from      of the regional offices  policy (Chap. III, P. 150).
                                                                        ICBF Board outlining           (Received from 12-2001ICBF is promoting the
                                                                        strategy for the evaluation of to 08-2002).             creation of municipal
                                                                        the plans and follow-up                                 social policy committees
                                                                        actions concerning                                      to improve coordination
                                                                        improvements in citizens'                               with ICBF and other
                                                                        oversight activities.                                   programs.
                                                                                                       3iv) Terms of reference
                                                                                                       (20-05-2002) and         3iv) A draft report on
                                                                        (3iv) Official copy of terms Contract for technical     recommended MIS has
                                                                        of reference and a signed      review of the MIS        been prepared and sent to
                                                                        contract for the technical     (06-07-2002).            DNP for review and
                                                                        review of the management                                approval.
                                                                        information system.
4. Attention to the internally 4. This would include: (i) adoption of a (4i) Establishment of a        (4i) Document with the 4i) DP includes
displaced population (IDP)     common methodology for estimating thecouncil composed of DANE members of the council establishment of a housing
though (i) adoption of a       size and characteristics of internally   (the National Statistical      and progress made        policy for IDP (Chap. III,
common methodology for         displaced population (IDP); (ii) a       Institute), RSS, Codhes and (29-07-2002).               P. 174). Familias en
characterizing the IDP; and time-bound action plan for eliminating Pastorial Social to validate                                 Acción Program is making
(ii) development and           barriers to access that would include thethe methodology to be                                   special efforts to include
launching of a time-bound      following components: (a) the possible applied to estimate the                                   the IDP.
action plan for eliminating    use by displaced persons of their        characteristics and size of
barriers to IDP's access to    SISBEN cards from their municipality the IDP population.
social programs.               of origin to have access to public
                               services; (b) a signed agreement (`      (4i) Copy of sign    (4ii)     (4ii) Action plan of IDP
                               convenio') between RSS (the Social       Official copy of the action    signed by DNP and RSS
                               Solidarity Network responsible for IDP plan signed by RSS and           (31-07-2002). There is
                               policy), the Office of the Presidency    DNP.                           another Document:
                               (responsible for the RAS safety net                                     action plan for inclusion
                               programs) and DNP outlining                                             of IDP as beneficiary of
                               time-bound steps for eliminating IDP's                                  RAS (No date).
                               barriers to access to Red de Apoyo
                               Social (RAS) safety net programs; and    (4iii) Official copy of a      4iii) Document of
                               (iii) proposed allocation in the 2003    document showing resource budget allocation for
                               budget for implementing the action plan allocation   in the proposed    implementation of IDP
                               for eliminating barriers to access.      2003 budget including          action plan (it includes
                                                                        financing for the              SISBEN and RAS
                                                                        implementation of the action budgets) (31-07-2002).
                                                                        plan.
Health
5. Expansion of health                                                  (5i) Official copy of PAC      5i) Decree No. 2190      5i) Over 1.5 million
insurance coverage and                                                  (MOF budget authorization showing additions to          additional insured
improvement of resource use                                             document) of 2001 showing 2001 budget for MOH individuals in 2001.
through: (i) expansion of the                                           that a budget (85,000          (17-10-2001).
subsidized health insurance                                             million pesos) has been                                 DP proposes an increase
coverage (Régimen                                                       programmed to finance                                   of 5 million affiliates to
Subsidiado) by 350,000                                                  health insurance coverage of                            the subsidize regime
additional individuals                                                  350,000 additional                                      based on transfer of
belonging to SISBEN levels                                              individuals of SISBEN level                             supply to demand
1 and 2 by December 31st,                                               1 and 2 (done).                                         subsidies, effective
2001.                                                                                                                           reduction of evasion and
                                                                                                                                better regulation of
                                                                                                                                operation of ARS (Chap.
                                                                                                                                III, P. 144).
(ii) approval of new resource                                                                          5ii) Law715
allocation model for                                                    (5ii) Official copy of Law     (21-12-2001).            5ii) Law 715 includes a
territorial entities according                                          715 as published in Official                            new distribution of
to the number of affiliates,                                            Gazette (Diario Oficial)                                resources according to




                                                                        - 23 -

number of vinculados and                                               (done).                                                 number of poor people
public health coverage                                                                                                         attended and to be
targets (e.g. vaccination                                                                                                      attended and public health
rates).                                                                                                                        coverage targets.
                                                                                                      5iii) CONPES 057
(iii) approval of CONPES                                               (5iii) Official copy of        (28-01-2002).            5iii) CONPES 057
(legal document of the                                                 CONPES 057 `Distribution                                defined implementation
National Council of Social                                             of the General System of                                rules for distribution of
Policy) defining the                                                   Participations, Year 2002'                              health transfers pursuant
implementation rules for the                                           (done).                                                 to Law 715 of 2001.
distribution of health
transfers pursuant to Law
715 of 2001.
                                                                                                      5iv) Letter from
(iv) agreement to use the                                              (5iv) Official copy of a letterMinister of Finance      5iv) It is not always
FOSYGA Solidarity                                                      of commitment duly signed      certifying that the      implemented.
Account resources                                                      by the Minister of Finance     FOSYGA resources
exclusively for subsidizing                                            certifying that the use of     will finance exclusively
health insurance coverage.                                             resources in the FOSYGA        subsidized health
                                                                       Solidarity Account will be     insurance regime (No
                                                                       dedicated exclusively to       date).
                                                                       financing the subsidized
                                                                       health insurance regime.
                             (5v) Law 715 mandates that the                                           5v) i) Decree159 of
(v) enactment of regulations responsibility for public health should (5v) Official copies of          2002 (20-01-2002)        5v) i) Decree 159 defined
(decretos reglamentarios)    be removed from the Health Promoting      (i) Decree 159 of 2002                                  information to consider in
for the implementation of    Entities of the contributory regime       providing information and                               distribution of health
Law 715 with respect to the  (EPSs) and assigned to the Nation         defining the methodology for                            transfers to territorial
assignment of                (article 46 of said law). The resources   the distribution of health                              entities and defined
responsibilities for public  financing components of public health     transfers pursuant to Law                               methodology according to
health and the methodology   which under Law 100, which were           715 (done) and                                          Law 715.
and information for the      received by the EPS, should now be                                       ii) Accord No. 229 of
distribution of health       received by the territorial entities      (ii) Accord of the CNSSS       the CNSSS de 2002        ii) Accord No. 229 of the
transfers pursuant to said   (municipalities and departments). The     defining the amount of         (17-05-2002).            CNSS defined share of
law.                         National Council of Social Security in    resources destined to                                   UPC destined to
                             Health (CNSSS) is responsible for         territorial entities for the                            territorial entities for
                             defining the amount of resources          financing of public health.                             financing public health.
                             subtracted from the Risk Adjustment
                             Premium (UPC) of the Contributory
                             Regime, which will now be used by
                             territorial entities for the financing of
                             public health activities.

                                                                                                      5vi) Document from
(vi) allocation in the 2003                                            (5vi) Official copy of         MOH with plan for        5vi) Plan included
proposed budget of                                                     time-bound communication       communicating rights     information on affiliation
necessary resources to                                                 action plan informing          and duties of affiliates to the general health
inform eligible poor                                                   eligible poor population       to the general health    system, including
population about the                                                   about subsidized health        system, and budget for procedures to enter into
subsidized health insurance                                            insurance rights and           2003 to carry out the    the subsidized regime.
regime rights and affiliation                                          affiliation procedures; and    plan (22-07-2002).       Also, municipalities have
procedures.                                                            official document showing                               disseminated information.
                                                                       resource allocation in the
                                                                       2003 MOH budget proposal
                                                                       needed to carry out said
                                                                       plan.

6. Strengthening of the      (6i) Law 488 of 1998 establishes that     (6i) Official copies of        6i) i) Decree1405 of    6i) i) Decree 1405 defined
operation of the National    the National Health Superintendent has (i) Decree 1405 regulating        1999 (28-07-1999).      methodology for annual




                                                                       - 24 -

Health Superintendent          the right to charge a fee to the entities the system and methodology                               fee to be charged to the
through: (i) approval of the that are under its supervision (e.g.,       employed for the definition                              entities subject to control
necessary decrees requiring EPSs, ARSs, public hospitals and             of the National Health                                   of the Health
fee payments by EPSs,          territorial entities). According to said  Superintendent's fee (done);                             Superintendent (SOH).
ARSs, territorial entities and law, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is and
hospitals to the National      responsible for the definition of the
Health Superintendent and      methodology used in the calculation of (ii) Decree 2787 establishing ii) Decree 2787 of 2001 ii) Decree 2787
establishing the fee level;    the fee. The MOF has regulated the        the fee level (done).          (20-12-2001).             established costs of
                               above-mentioned issues through two                                                                 supervision and control to
                               decrees; (i) Decree 1405 of 1999 which                                                             be paid to the SOH.
                               regulates the system and the
                               methodology employed for fee
                               definition and (ii) Decree 2787 of 2001
                               which establishes the level of the fee
                               for the various entities supervised by
                               the National Health Superintendent.

(ii) signed contract for a     (6ii) A business study financed by the    (6ii) Official copy of contract6ii)Consultancy contractii) Objective of this
business study, financed by Program Apoyo a la Reforma will have for business study of the              for evaluating            contract was to evaluate
the Program Support to the been contracted with respect to the           National Health                supervision and control and propose actions to
Reform (Apoyo a la Reforma different aspects of the operation of the Superintendent.                    activities of the General change processes,
), regarding the operation of Health Superintendent. The study aims                                     Health System             strategies and public
the Superintendent and the    to assist the Health Superintendent        (6iii) Actual availability of  (22-12-1999).             entities at central and
ways that its role can be     identifying actions that will increase     information in the Internet.                             local level in charge of
re-enforced; and              vigilance and improve control. The                                                                  supervision and control of
                              study can draw lessons from the                                                                     the General Health
                              experience of other Superintendencies                                                               System. DP includes
                              in Colombia.                                                                                        strengthening of
                                                                                                                                  supervision and control
                                                                                                                                  activities in the sector by
                                                                                                                                  SOH (Chap. III, P. 146).

(iii) internet dissemination                                                                            6iii) Bulletin with       6iii) Information includes
of information on the                                                                                   comprehensive             news in the sector,
performance of EPSs, ARSs,                                                                              information published performance reports of
territorial entities and                                                                                in internet               supervised entities in
hospitals by the National                                                                               (24-07-2002).             2000-01, and new
Health Superintendent.                                                                                                            legislation.
7. Strengthening of the        (7ii) The Colombian Government            (7i) Official copy of PAC      7i) Letter from INS       7i) Letter indicated
Expanded Program of            (GOC) will have carried out the           2002 showing that a budget showing PAC for               detailed PAC for vaccines,
Immunization (EPI) through: following actions to improve the             has been programmed to         vaccination coverage      and transfers for territorial
(i) budget allocation to       immunization system: (i) budget           finance year 2002              (25-07-2002).             entities for 2002. Increase
finance year 2002              allocated to finance year 2002            immunization needs to                                    in budget guarantees a
immunization needs to          immunization needs to achieve at least achieve at least 95%                                        total coverage of children
achieve at least 95%           95% vaccination coverage; (ii)            vaccination coverage.                                    less than 5 years,
vaccination coverage;          development of detailed Action Plan to                                                             according to MOH plan
                               strengthen the EPI immunization                                                                    (EPI).
                               program and initiation of certain key
(ii) development of detailed measures; and (iii) allocation of           (7ii) Official copies of       7ii)                      7ii)
Action Plan based on the       resources for executing the action plan. (i) the Action Plan             i) Report from INS of i) Report presented
recommendations of the                                                   developed and signed by        EPI program               activities, evaluation and
National Evaluation to                                                   both the MOH and INS,          ( 19-07-2002).            chronogram of EPI
strengthen the EPI             The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the presenting the activities                                     program. DP establishes a
immunization program and National Institute of Health (INS) will described in Specifications                                      goal of 95 percent in
initiation of certain key      have finalized the above-mentioned        and Definitions, cost                                    vaccination for children
measures;                      Action Plan, including short and          estimates and a chronogram;                              less than 5 years with all
                               medium-term activities to strengthen                                                               vaccines in EPI (Chap. III,
                               the EPI program. The Plan uses the                                                                 P. 147).
                               Final Report of the National EPI




                                                                         - 25 -

                                Evaluation as a basis and covers all        (ii) a report signed by MOH 7ii) ii) Report from       7ii) ii) Report presented
                                components in the evaluation. Emphasisand the INS on the initiation INS of EPI program (           activities, evaluation and
                                is placed on: (a) financing, (b)            of the above-mentioned        19-07-2002).             chronogram of EPI
                                strengthening management, (c)               selected key measures and                              program.
                                infrastructure and staffing development, other activities underway;
                                (d) strengthening information systems,
(iii) allocation of resources   (e) cold chain, and (f) enhancing           (iii) official document from 7ii) iii) Letter from INS7ii) iii) Letter provided
for executing the EPI plan;     coordination between providers by           MOH showing allocation of showing PAC for              detailed allocation for EPI
and                             assigning necessary funds to ensure the resources for executing the       executing EPI plan       components. DP indicates
                                adequate coordination and flow of           EPI plan; and                 (25-07-2002).            Nation will guarantee
                                information.                                                                                       needed resources to buy
                                                                                                                                   vaccines when needed to
                                The government will have assigned                                                                  ensure proposed coverage
                                funds for the National Plan of Action                                                              target (P. 147).
                                and will have begun implementation of
(iv) clarification of the       the plan. Initial priorities for immediate (iv) a contract for the first  7ii) iv) Contract was    7ii) iv) Annexes 9 and 10
assignment of                   initiation include steps for adequate       phase of a study to conduct not found. Annexes 9       of EPI report also showed
responsibilities at the central staffing, national vaccination guidelines an inventory of the national and 10 of EPI report        chronogram and costs for
level regarding                 will be under development and training cold chain system.                 contained proposal for improving the national
immunization                    scheduled, surveillance workshops will                                    improving and updating cold chain system. DP
                                be scheduled, a Supervision Plan will                                     the national cold chain proposes creation of
                                be in place, and evaluation activities to                                 system.                  inventory of the national
                                monitor vaccination coverage levels and                                                            cold chain system to
                                surveillance sensitivity will be ongoing.                                                          improve it (Chap. III, P.
                                Installation of computer software for                                                              146).
                                disease surveillance (e.g., MESS and
                                PESS) at the Department level will be (7iii) Official copies of:          7iii) i) Resolution 228 7iii) i) Resolution 228
                                ongoing. The government will have           (i) Resolution 228 of 2001 of (18-02-2001).            delegated to INS, EPI
                                contracted (the first phase in all capitals the MOH delegating to the                              program implementation.
                                of the 33 Departments and in the 4          INS the implementation of
                                Districts of a study) to conduct an         the EPI program at an
                                inventory of the national cold chain        operational level (done); and
                                system and will have estimated the cost
                                of its renovation. As a first step,                                       7iii) ii) Resolution 537 7iii) ii) Resolution 537
                                Supervisory and training activities         (ii) Resolution 537           (18-04-2001).            created a Special Group of
                                should be initiated. The national           mandating the creation of a                            Technical Support for
                                inventory should be underway and            Special Group of Technical Inter-administrative        execution of agreement
                                purchase orders will have been placed Support for the execution of agreement to develop            between MOH and INS
                                for needed equipment.                       the agreement between the     resolution 228-2002 to (Inter-administrative
                                Assuming that the results of the pilot      MOH and the INS (done).       delegate functions to    agreement to develop
                                testing of PAISOF-2 are acceptable, the                                   INS (23-03-2001).        resolution 228-2002 to
                                government will have assigned funds                                                                delegate functions to INS
                                for, and will have begun, the                                                                      (23-03-2001).
                                implementation of PAISOF-2 at
                                different levels within the health care
                                sector. Training activities will have
                                been initiated. The MOH/INS will be
                                monitoring vaccination coverage levels
                                at the municipal level and by health
                                plan using the following indicators:
                                · 95% coverage for DTP3 (and/or,
                                pentavalent), OPV3, MMR, BCG,
                                Hepatitis B, at the appropriate ages,
                                e.g., 1-year of age for MMR and less
                                than 1-year of age for the other
                                vaccines.
                                · Proportion of children living in
                                municipalities with 95% coverage
                                levels by vaccine and by the appropriate




                                                                            - 26 -

                              age
                              · Proportion of municipalities with
                              95% coverage levels by vaccine and by
                              the appropriate age
                              Performance target indicators will
                              include DTP3 coverage over time
                              among children less than one year of
                              age, measles coverage over time among
                              children 1-year of age, and the
                              proportion of children living in
                              municipalities with coverage of 95% for
                              DTP3 and measles vaccine.
                              Finally, a mechanism will have been
                              identified, formalized and implemented
                              that permits a child to receive needed
                              vaccination from any vaccination center,
                              regardless of affiliation. Based on this
                              activity, missed opportunities to
                              vaccination will be minimized.
                              (7iii) Both the MOH and INS are
                              responsible for the implementation of
                              the EPI program. Decisions at a policy
                              level are taken by the MOH, while at an
                              operational level by the INS. Resolution
                              228 of 2001 of the MOH delegates the
                              operational execution of the EPI
                              program to the INS and Resolution 537
                              of 2001 mandates the creation of
                              Special Group of Technical Support for
                              the execution of the agreement (
                              convenio) between the MOH and the
                              INS.
Education

8. Improving public                                                    (8i) Official copy of Law   8i) Law 715 changes       8i) It is being
education regulatory                                                   715 as published in the     the old rules for         implemented. DP
framework through: (i)                                                 Official Gazette (Diario    distributing resources    considers this Law a
approval of a new resource                                             Oficial) (done)             to departments and        fundamental tool for the
allocation model for                                                                               municipalities. New       solution of the equity and
territorial entities according                                                                     rules assign resources    efficiency problems in the
to number of students,                                                                             according to number of sector (Chap. III,
population to be attended,                                                                         children attended and     Construir equidad social,
and poverty indicators;                                                                            to be attended. It also P.124).
                                                                                                   clarifies responsibilities
                                                                                                   of Territorial Entities
                                                                                                   and Nation
                                                                                                   (21-12-2001).

(ii) approval of CONPES                                                (8ii) Official copy of      8ii) CONPES 057           8ii) It is being
defining the implementation                                            CONPES 057 `Distribution (28-01-2002).                implemented.
rules for the distribution of                                          of the General System of
the educational transfers                                              Participations, Year 2002
pursuant to Law 715; and                                               (done).
(iii) enactment of
regulations (decretos                                                  (8iii) Official copy of     8iii) Decree No. 1526     8iii) It is being
reglamentarios, ministerial                                            regulations (decree,        (24-07-2002), about       implemented. DP
directives, resolutions and                                            ministerial directives,     administration of         indicates information
circulars) for the                                                     resolutions, and circulars) information system in     system is key element in
implementation of Law 715                                              duly signed by authorized   education sector.         implementation of Law




                                                                       - 27 -

in regard to information          representatives.                                        715 and evaluation of
system, including                                               Decree No. l523           performance of agents
regulations strengthening                                       (24-07-2002) regulating involved (P. 124).
the capacity of the Ministry                                    Law 715, arts 23, 27
of Education to assist                                          about contracts rules for DP sets out the goal of
territorial entities develop                                    providing public          640.000 new education
their education information                                     education service.        places through demand
systems for resource                                                                      subsidies and contracting
allocation, and guidelines                                                                out of the education
for public education                                                                      service with private sector
institutions contracting with                                                             (P.125-6).
private providers for the
delivery of educational
services; and
(iv) allocation in 2002           (8iv) Official copy of Budget 8iv) Done.                8iv) Done.
budget of resources to            Law 2002 (done).
strengthen the Ministry of
Education's capacity to
assist territorial entities
develop their education
information systems.

9. Ten performance                (9) Official copies of the    9) Follow-up Matrix for 9) It is being implemented
agreements (Matriz de             duly signed agreements        reorganization for:       in all regions. DP
Seguimiento al Plan de            (done).                       Cartagena (2002),         proposes close follow up
Reorganizacion) signed                                          Santa Marta (2002),       and technical assistance to
between the authorized                                          Barranquilla (2002),      local education secretaries
representatives of both the                                     Atlantico (10-2001),      in reorganization process
National Government and                                         Caldas (07-2001),         (Chap. III, P. 132).
Territorial Entities to                                         Valle del Cauca
rationalize the teaching                                        (08-2001),
force and extend education                                      Guajira (08-2001),
system coverage.                                                Norte de Santander
                                                                (10-2001),
                                                                Boyaca (09-2001),
                                                                Bogota (no date),
                                                                Cundinamarca
                                                                (08-2001), Sucre
                                                                (08-2001).

10. Signing of a Monitoring       (10) Official copies of the   10) Agreements with       10) Agreements with
Agreement (Convenio de            duly signed agreements.       districts included in     districts included in
Seguimiento) between                                            preceding numeral.        preceding numeral.
authorized representatives of
the national government and
the Mayors of selected
districts receiving
educational transfers
according to the Law 715
formula. Said agreement
will allow the Ministry of
Education to monitor
compliance of the following
measures that the districts
agreed to undertake: (i)
improve the reliability of the
information on the number
students; (ii) streamline the
administrative structure of




                                  - 28 -

the Education Secretariats (
Secretarias de Educacion);
and (iii) increase investment
in non-salary education
inputs and universal
assessment of the
educational achievement of
children.
                                  (11i) Physical evidence of  11i) Documents:          11i) Results disseminated
11. Public dissemination of       dissemination, e.g., press  a) Evaluation of Quality through press releases,
information through, inter        releases, brochures, and    of Education- Results of radio. DP includes
alia, national media,             internet.                   Evaluation in grades 3, establishment and
publications and press                                        5, 7 and 9 Math and      dissemination of quality
releases regarding: (i)                                       Language                 standards and assessment
student learning                                              Cauca (03-2001).         of achievements of
achievement of the last                                        b) Results of           students and teachers
SABER assessment; and                                         Evaluation of Quality of (Chap. III, P. 128).
                                                              Education, Executive
                                                              Summary (03-2001).


(ii) the updating of the          (11ii) Official copies of   11ii) Copies of 7        11ii) Updated and
"Portfolio of Education           updated drafts of the       programs of Portfolio of disseminated with unit
Services" (Portafolio de          Portafolio de Ofertas       Educational Offerings    cost estimates. DP
Ofertas Educativas) and its       Educativas.                 (no date):               proposes to increase by
inclusion of unit cost                                        a) Escuela Nueva         60.000 places rural
estimates. [The Portfolio is a                                b) Postprimaria Rural education through
brochure on pedagogical                                       c) Aceleración del       portafolio programs
models local authorities                                      Aprendizaje              (Chap. III, P. 126).
should consider for                                           d) Sistema de
increasing both enrollment                                    Aprendizaje Tutorial ­
and quality.]                                                 SAT
                                                              e) Servicio de
                                                              Educación Rural- SER
                                                              f) Programa de
                                                              Educación Continuada
                                                              ­ Cafam
                                                              g) Jornada Escolar
                                                              Ampliada Cajas de
                                                              Compensación
                                                              Familiar.

12. Development of a              (12) Official copies of the 12) Short list of        12) Consultancy contract
methodology and shortlist         methodology, terms of       consultants, contract    No. 061/2002 was made
for selection of consultants      reference and shortlist of  and terms of reference   between Instituto
to evaluate models for            consultants.                with methodology for     Interamericano de
expanding basic and middle                                    impact, performance      Cooperación para la
education using education                                     and quality evaluation   Agricultura (IICA) and
technology (e.g. SAT,                                         of Programa de           PNUD.
telesecundarias,                                              Educación Rural (PER)
postprimaria and accelerated                                  with options such as
methodologies).                                               preschool, escuela
                                                              nueva, learning
                                                              acceleration,
                                                              post-primary,
                                                              telesecondary, SAT;
                                                              SER, CAFAM (no
                                                              date).

13. $5 million will be aside                                  13) Approved project in  13) Spent on
                                                                                       implementation of



                                  - 29 -

set for technical assistance              national investment
(TA) and added to the 2002                plan for technical   SISBEN surveys in 2003,
budget and/or 2003 budget                 assistance in        done by municipalities.
Proposal.                                 implementation of Law
                                          715 (25-07-2002).




                                - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable.




                                      - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                    No. of Persons and Specialty                               Performance Rating
                                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)                   Implementation Development
                        Month/Year           Count                  Specialty                                   Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                   HQ/RM
                   04/23/2001                               8    TM, SM, ES/CO-TM, PS, FM,
                                                                 E, ES, SA/PS.
                   11/05/2001                               8    TM, Eval/Spec., ES., CH,
                                                                 PAHO/H, C- FEDESARROLLO,
                                                                 PSM, ES.
                   12/07/2001                               7    TM, DML, HDS, CSS, C-PAHO,
                                                                 CH, SA.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                   04/01/2002                               7    TM, HDS, LEGLA,
                                                                 C-PAHO, CH, SAP, DML.
                   05/06/2002                               9    TM, CM, HDS, E, DML,
                                                                 E/Health, ES, SAP, SP.

 Supervision
                   HQ/RM                                    1    TM                                                  S               S
                   12/17/2002

 ICR
                   HQ/RM                                    1      TM                                                S               S
                   02/12/2003


CE: Country Economist                      DML: Deputy Mission Leader                PSM: Public Sector Mgmt
CH: Consultant/Health Specialist E: Economist                             SA: Social Assistance Specialist
CM: Country Manager              ES: Education Specialist                 SAP: Social Asses.Participation
CE:: Country Economist                     FS: Financial Management Specialist       SM: Sector Manager
C:   Consultant                            PS: Procurement Specialist                SP: Social Protection Specialist
CSS: Civil Society Specialist              PS: Procurement Specialist                TM: Task Manager

Note: TBC: to be completed by TM


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                    No. Staff weeks                          US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                47.22                           236, 811.09
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                     32.82                            148,709.20
  Supervision                                               16.00                            100,000.00
  ICR                                                         4.44                            20,542.48
  Total                                                    100.48                            506,062.77




                                                                  - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      World Bank, Colombia: Proposed Social Sector Adjustment Loan. Program Document. Report
No. 24489. June 18, 2002.

2.      World Bank, Colombia: Human Capital Protection Project. Project Appraisal Document.
Report No. 21608-CO. March 1, 2001.

3.      World Bank, Colombia: Community Works and Employment Project (Manos a la Obra:
Proyectos Comunitarios). Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 20159-CO. April 18, 2000.

4.      World Bank. The Social Safety Net in Colombia: Issues and Options in the Face of Economic
Shock. Washington, D.C. 2001.

5.      World Bank, Colombia: The Economic Foundation of Peace. July, 27, 2002.

6.      Vélez, Carlos Eduardo, Vivian Foster, Mauricio Santamaría, Natalia Millán and Bénédicte de la
Brière. 2001. Colombia Poverty Report. World Bank. Processed.

7.      Decree 205, Creation of Social Protection Ministry. February 2003.

8.      IMF Letter of Agreement, January 2003.

9.      Departamento Nacional de Planeación (DNP). Credito de Ajuste del Sector Social- Secal
(7134-Co). Informe del Gobierno. Marzo, 2003.

10.     Departamento Nacional de Planeación (DNP). Cartilla. Bases del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo,
2002-2006. "Hacia un Estado Comunitario".

11.     Presidencia de la Republica- Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico- Departamento Nacional de
Planeación. Proyecto de Ley No. 169/03C de 2003 "Por la cual se expide el Plan de Desarrollo: Hacia un
Estado Comunitario".




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner comments full text (unofficial translation)

                  SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN -- SECAL (7134-CO)

 Following is the Government's assessment of the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL), in terms of
 the implementation and achievement of objectives, as input for preparation of the Implementation
 Completion Report for the project, pursuant to Article 1, section 1.01 (e), of the General Conditions of
 the Loan Agreement.

 This document covers the following topics: a) achievement of each project objective, including social
 and macroeconomic objectives; b) assessment of conditions achieved, as specified in Table 4.1 of the
 Policy Matrix (and Annex G) of the SECAL Loan Agreement; and c) lessons learned with respect to the
 scope of the project objectives and conditions, among other aspects.

 I. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

 A.    SPECIFIC CONDITIONS

 TRANSPARENCY AND MONITORING OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS

 1. Introduction of a system of evaluation and public monitoring of social programs

 Impact evaluation of social programs

 Families in Action (Familias en Acción)
 Progress achieved
 i) Contract execution began in January 2002; ii) 35 percent of contract has been executed; iii) initial
 results from the first information survey are in hand; iv) the second information survey will be
 conducted in June 2003; v) the third information survey will be conducted in June 2004. Contract
 execution will be completed at the end of that year.

 Employment in Action (Empleo en Acción)
 i) Contract execution began in September 2002; ii) 20 percent of contract has been executed; iii) initial
 results from the first information survey will be available in June 2003; iv) the second information
 survey will be conducted in June 2003; v) the third information survey will be conducted in June 2004.
 Contract execution will be completed at the end of that year.

 Youth in Action (Jóvenes en Acción)
 The contract between the consortium and the Investment Fund for Peace (Fondo de Inversión para la
 Paz), which is responsible for budgetary aspects of the evaluation, has yet to be signed. The contract
 value is US$750,056 and is to run for 24 months. The delay in signing the contract was due, in the first
 place, to the change of Government, and to doubts that arose initially about continuity of program
 execution, and subsequently about changes in program design, including such matters as the executing
 institution.

 SENA
 The Government is committed to provide SENA training services more efficiently, and that entity is
 consequently undergoing a series of reforms. The changes, some of which are already being



                                                   - 37 -

implemented, include applying meritocracy in the assignment of positions and duties, making greater use
of installed capacity in training centers, and rationalizing functions as well as reforms, both qualitative
and quantitative, in the field of occupational training, involving the incorporation of new technologies,
reorientation towards the needs of the productive sector, and equipping graduates with the skills for
creating their own employment. Efforts are also being made to strengthen SENA's ability to provide
occupational training for the unemployed, by involving public and private entities in building the
National Vocational Training System (sistema nacional de formación para el trabajo).

An evaluation is not appropriate when SENA is undergoing a complete overhaul, and an impact
evaluation of SENA has accordingly been postponed for the short term. As part of its reform, SENA
will design a system of regular monitoring and evaluation.

ICBF
ICBF is currently pursuing a series of reforms involving strengthening of its technical and psychosocial
services, decentralization, merger of regional offices, and financial sustainability of the Institute, among
other aspects.

The Institute has been working to reform its nutrition programs, such as nutrition assistance for
schoolchildren and teenagers, and to reform the purchase and distribution of foods of high biological
value (bienestarina), topics for which an impact evaluation was planned. It was therefore decided to
examine alternatives for evaluating programs such as the community centers for integrated child and
family care in order to restore and guarantee their rights.

Dissemination of outcomes by the National Government

The DNP is currently working to implement a government strategy for disseminating outcomes,
targeting all citizens throughout the country. The dissemination strategy will make public the progress
and achievements in national government management, in order to foster confidence, increase
transparency and make accountability a reality. The specific objectives of dissemination are: a) to
generate information on: i) the results of monitoring and evaluation of the national government's
management; ii) the results of the Citizen Perceptions Surveys; iii) the views of experts on issues that
affect the quality of life in the country; and b) to publicize information through the mass media, in order
to enrich debate on the management of issues that affect the quality of life; and c) to provide feedback to
the process of defining annual government goals.

The information will be generated through the national system for evaluating the results of public
management, targeted evaluations, public opinion surveys, and studies by academic and research
centers. Information will be disseminated through the mass media (radio, press, television) as well as
through public forums and meetings. Finally, input into goals definition will be obtained from special
feedback forums and meetings and working papers.

To guarantee its effectiveness, credibility and sustainability, the dissemination strategy relies on
partnership with representatives of the private sector and civil society, to support each stage in
constructing and implementing the strategy instruments.

SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEM

2. Development of the Social Protection System




                                                   - 38 -

The national Government has considered it essential to adopt a State strategy to protect the poorest and
most vulnerable population groups, particularly in times of economic crisis, by developing prevention
and social assistance instruments.

For this purpose, the Basic Principles of the National Development Plan (NDP) call for articulating
government policies and addressing the harmful effects of poverty and vulnerability to risk. This
translates into a commitment to create an operational social safety net, which means ensuring continuity
for the programs of the Social Safety Net (RAS), creation of the Social Protection Ministry, creation of
a social protection fund as a permanent source of financing, and implementation of the SISBEN reform
so that programs will be properly targeted.

To achieve these objectives, various measures were proposed, several of which are already being
implemented: i) updating the SISBEN; ii) special attention to the needs of the displaced population; iii)
gradual decentralization in the delivery of the main social programs; iv) evaluation of RAS programs to
determine which ones should be maintained; and v) creation of a Social Protection Fund.

At the same time, Law 789 of 2002 was approved, setting standards for supporting employment and
expanding social protection, and amending several articles of the Labor Code. The law stipulates that
the social protection system will constitute a set of public policies designed to reduce vulnerability and
improve living standards, particularly for those most at risk, so that they can enjoy their rights to health,
pensions and work. With respect to pensions, the idea is to create a workable system to guarantee
acceptable income levels for current and future pensioners. On the health front, programs will be
designed so that people will have timely access to quality basic services. With respect to labor issues,
conditions will be created to allow workers to adopt new forms of work, organization and the workday,
and at the same time to socialize the risks inherent in economic and social change.

3. Improving the coverage, effectiveness and efficiency of ICBF

In order to make further improvements in efficiency and coverage of ICBF programs, the national
development plan makes it a policy to reinforce the separation of financing and the provision of services,
by strengthening mechanisms for cofinancing with territorial entities. At the same time, alternatives will
be evaluated for decentralizing or delegating program execution by "zonal centers" or territorial entities,
respectively.

This strategy has produced favorable results in terms of cofinancing: for the fiscal year 2000, territorial
entities made contributions valued at COL$28.269 billion; the corresponding figures for 2001 were
COL$61.470 billion and for 2002, COL$78.928 billion.

In support of citizen oversight over its activities, ICBF will continue to sponsor the Childhood
Policy-Building Workshops to identify public needs and take them into account in formulating policies
affecting the family and children.

4. Addressing the problem of forced displacement

Within the Technical Committee DANE, RSS, Codhes and Pastoral Social, DANE evaluated the
methodology for estimating the displaced population. It proposed adjustments to the data collection
dynamics, as well as to the instruments used, so as to ensure more reliable sources of information. This
demonstrates that DANE has made a greater commitment to the issue of forced displacement and is
providing increased technical support in this area.


                                                    - 39 -

Progress has also been made in adjusting the methodology for estimating and characterizing the
displaced population, and 2,800 surveys will be conducted in 13 cities, with the assistance of DANE.

With the intensification of the armed conflict, forced displacement ­given its magnitude and
characteristics--has now become the major humanitarian problem facing the country. Thus, the
Development Plan "Towards a State Based on Community Spirit" ("Hacia un Estado Comunitario")
calls for a strategy for preventing forced displacement and caring for its victims, with four basic
components: i) prevention and protection; ii) emergency assistance; iii) creating conditions for
reestablishment; iv) strengthening the national comprehensive care system.

Under the prevention and protection component, the early warning system will be reinforced,
humanitarian assistance will be given to victims of the conflict, educational assistance will be provided
for children through subsidies to cover enrollment and tuition fees in public education institutions, and
psychosocial care will be provided.

Under the humanitarian emergency assistance component, basic social services will be provided to meet
the needs of displaced groups. This assistance will cover nutrition, shelter and health, including health
assessments, care and control of infectious diseases, and education in health and hygiene.

Under the reestablishment component, programs have been designed to provide housing subsidies, to
facilitate the granting of land titles, to support productive, income-generating projects, and to promote
vocational training, in order to give displaced people alternatives and conditions for returning to their
lands. As well, efforts will be made to incorporate displaced groups into emergency employment
creation programs and into the social security and protection system, not only to guarantee families a
source of income but also to provide them with access to health, education and nutrition services.

In addition to the foregoing, the chapter on social equity in the Development Plan includes displaced
persons within the strategy for implementing the Social Risk Management System. Specifically, it notes
that special attention will be paid to the needs of displaced persons. Efforts will focus on regions
receiving the greatest number of displaced persons, to ensure that there are no barriers to prevent their
access to health and education programs.

HEALTH

5. Expanding health insurance coverage

The national Government is continuing to make major efforts to broaden the coverage of health
insurance. In 2001 and 2002, provision was made for 1.3 million new enrollees in the subsidized
regime, and the National Development Plan has set a goal of expanding the regime by 5 million enrollees
between 2003 and 2006.

In order to achieve these coverage expansion goals, the Government will need to continue to target
investments for this purpose from the FOSYGA Solidarity Account. In addition, it is expected that
territorial entities will continue to finance subsidies for new beneficiaries with their own funds, in
response to the incentives offered by the funding distribution criteria under Law 715 of 2001.

As to the allocation of public health responsibilities as defined in Law 715 of 2001, the National Board
for Social Security in Health (Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social en Salud) issued Order 229 of


                                                    - 40 -

2002 requiring that 4.01 percent of UPC-S (risk adjusted premium ­ health) funds must be earmarked
for the health promotion and prevention activities that were transferred to the districts and
municipalities. In addition, the Ministry of Health issued resolution 0052 of 2002 containing technical
guidelines for territorial entities to follow in discharging their public health responsibilities, and
identifying the public health priorities that they must observe.

Finally, one year after implementation of the General System for Transfers, the effects of the efficiency
incentives can be clearly seen in the fact that territorial entities have met the goals in terms of
vaccination coverage. Similarly, the cofinancing scheme for the subsidized regime and assignment of
this responsibility to the municipalities and districts have made these territorial entities more aware of
the meaning of the policy for continued expansion of coverage, as noted earlier.

6. Strengthening the Office of the National Superintendent of Health

Strengthening the Office of the National Superintendent of Health has been furthered through
implementation of the fee paid by entities under its supervision. The methodology for collecting that tax
was established in Decree 1405 of 1999.

In 2002, COL$10.768 billion was collected, of which COL$4.472 billion in the first half of the year,
and COL$6.295 billion in the rest of the year. For 2003, collections are expected to amount to
COL$9.4 billion, with COL$3.786 billion expected in the first half of the year: by March 11, collections
stood at COL$533 million.

At the same time, the Superintendent's Office prepared and submitted a proposed management model
defining mechanisms for coordinating the entities responsible for surveillance, inspection and control of
the health sector at the national and local levels.

As a parallel measure, national Government, through the state restructuring project, is preparing
amendments to the health surveillance, inspection and control system, consistent with the conceptual
framework of regulation and control that will be introduced in the new institutional design for the State.

7. Strengthening the immunization program

Efforts to reinforce the immunization program by allocating sufficient funding for its implementation
have had an important impact in terms of coverage. According to records as of December 2002, the
scope of coverage was as follows: 93 percent triple viral, 87.2 percent BCG, 82.8 percent polio.

The national Government remains committed to this program and has given it priority in its investment
plan for 2003-2006.

At the same time, the application of new funding distribution rules, together with the policy guidelines
issued by the Ministry of Social Protection, have brought greater efficiency to public health spending at
the local level.

EDUCATION

8. Improving the regulatory framework for education

Law 715 of 2001 has become a basic tool for resolving problems of inefficiencies in the education


                                                    - 41 -

sector. The Law made changes to the prevailing financing distribution rule, which gave priority to
territorial entities with the largest staff numbers, without offering any incentives to encourage efficient
use and distribution of resources: the new rule takes into account the number of boys and girls served
and not yet served. This new distribution formula has made it possible to provide incentives not only to
expand coverage but also to maintain it.

During 2002, funding was allocated on a per-student basis to the school districts in general, and to all
municipalities in the country, for investing in quality [improvements] that will be reflected in expanded
coverage. These incentives have helped to meet the coverage goals in the National Development Plan,
and have encouraged local education authorities to adopt programs for expanding the number of children
served, in the expectation of greater funding. As of 2003, some 40 municipalities are certified, and
quality-improvement funding has been distributed on a per-student basis, which has led local entities to
adapt gradually to this new system.

Besides reforming the funding distribution system, the new law clarified responsibilities of the various
local authorities (departments, municipalities and districts) and the national Government. This means
that the community can now identify those responsible for providing service, and this has facilitated the
monitoring of results. The ministry has issued regulations to standardize information and to request data
concerning boys and girls enrolled with a registration number for allocation of resources in 2004.

Finally, reforming the system of allocation and responsibilities in education is an essential part of two
strategies of the National Development Plan: expanding coverage and promoting the more efficient use
of education resources and modernizing education departments.

9. Matrix for monitoring the reorganization plan

In certain departments that signed the monitoring matrices, the following results were obtained with
respect to the goal of expanding enrollment for the year 2002: the target was 124,639 new students
enrolled, yet although positive results were achieved in all departments, only 67 percent of the target was
met, with the addition of 83,287 children during the period.

One department actually exceeded the goal (which was 4,083 students), by increasing its enrollment by
5,583 children. Two other departments achieved the proposed goals by increasing their enrollment by
33,755 and 3,500 students respectively.

Given the positive outcome from the agreements negotiated with the departments under the NDP
monitoring matrices, the reorganization plan is one of the actions of NDP related to the expansion of
coverage. The Government has continued and has reinforced the institutional reorganization process in
order to achieve more equitable distribution of physical, human and financial resources, and greater use
of installed capacity, so that coverage can be expanded and quality can be improved with the same level
of funding. This process will be strengthened through training, monitoring and evaluation of territorial
entities and the establishment of technical standards, taking into account the number of children served,
the diversity of regions and the differences that exist between educational levels and between zones.
These efforts will create 800,000 new places.

10. District monitoring agreement

In light of the progress that the districts have made in monitoring the per-student allocation system, the
Government, in CONPES Social 68 of 2003, recommends continuing with the monitoring agreements


                                                    - 42 -

that it signed with the districts in 2002 for evaluating performance of the new funding allocation system,
and presenting the results for 2002. The purpose would be to take those results into account in allocating
resources per student for the year 2004.

11. Information on SABER tests and the Portfolio of Education Services

Based on the SABER tests, and incorporating the mandate from Law 715/2001, one of the key
proposals of the National Education Ministry for improving the quality of education is to conduct a
census-type evaluation of skills as an element for triggering improvements in the school system. To test
this idea, during 2002 some 900,000 students in grades 5 and 9 were evaluated in the areas of
mathematics and language.

The ultimate purpose of these census-type evaluations is to equip the various education stakeholders,
and in particular educational institutions, with objective criteria for assessing the quality of education.
They will provide valuable information for designing the Education Quality Improvement Plans by
providing data on how students are progressing in their learning, in the context of evaluating skills. The
approach also includes using different reference groups for comparing education elements, such as
sector, zone, other education institutions, other municipalities or departments. Finally, it allows for
comparisons across different points in time, which is essential if educational improvement is viewed as a
process and as a constant that educational institutions must strive to achieve.

In a series of operations conducted during 2002, 384 municipalities and the country's four districts were
evaluated. If the results are analyzed in terms of the number of children served, they are even more
significant. In fact, in terms of the enrollment achieved by the municipalities and districts evaluated,
coverage at this level stood at 67 percent for grade 5, and at 56 percent for grade 9.

To complete the census-type evaluations of education quality, and to ensure that all educational
institutions in the country have appropriate information for designing Education Quality Improvement
Plans, the Ministry of Education plans to assess the quality of education in the remaining 709
municipalities by April 3.

12. Expanding basic and intermediate education through the use of educational technologies

With the Rural Education Program, different educational methodologies have been introduced for
expanding educational coverage and quality in rural areas. Those methodologies were previously
evaluated in different regions. They include Telesecundaria, SAT, post-primary programs, and
accelerated learning, which in 2002 generated, respectively, 594, 1,878, 1,189 and 679 new places in six
departments for a total of 966 experiments throughout the country. The goal set for 2002 (11,824 new
students) was achieved only to the extent of 73 percent (8,630); the 3,194 places that were not filled will
have to be filled in future years.

In addition, the NDP's goals for expanding coverage included the generation of 60,000 new places for
rural dwellers, through the introduction of previously tested education models such as those referred to
above, including Escuela Nueva, Telesecundaria, SAT, SER, post-primary education and accelerated
learning. These methodologies also figure in the strategies for improving the quality of education, in the
"relevance mechanism" that seeks to serve the most vulnerable people such as those in rural areas.




                                                   - 43 -

B.    GENERAL CONDITIONS

MACROECONOMIC ASPECTS

One of the general conditions in SECAL I was to keep the macroeconomic framework consistent with
the objectives of the loan. In this respect, it should be noted that in January 2003 the Government of
Colombia signed a Stand-By Arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The
Memorandum of Economic Policy and the Technical Memorandum of Understanding, which are part of
that arrangement, describe the new Government's economic policies and objectives for 2003 and 2004.

The program for those years is designed to reinforce macroeconomic policies and reduce vulnerabilities
at a time when the external environment has become increasingly difficult and Colombia faces the
challenges of fostering higher economic growth, providing enhanced social services, and strengthening
domestic security. The program seeks to enhance fiscal revenues, curtail public expenditure, support the
economic recovery, tackle corruption, and promote social services and a better distribution of income.

The macroeconomic framework for the program is based on real economic growth of between 2.0 and
2.5 percent and inflation in the range of 5 to 6 percent in 2003. The current account deficit is projected
to narrow to 0.8 percent of GDP. It is hoped that strengthening public finances will reduce the combined
public sector deficit from 4.0 percent of GDP in 2002 to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2003. The fiscal
reforms include tax measures and an expenditure freeze.

Structural reforms are also planned, such as the second-generation pension reform, and restructuring
and downsizing the State. Various additional measures will be taken. For example, the Government
will design measures to address issues of accountability, transparency, and flexibility of the public
finances; the financing of the fiscal program will be based on an appropriate combination of domestic
and external sources; and the financial system will be further strengthened in terms of regulation and
supervision.

II. EVALUATION OF THE CONDITIONS ACHIEVED

One of the risks referred to in the Report of the President of the World Bank to the Board of Executive
Directors related to the timing of loan approval and the change of Government, which raised questions
about the continuity of the reforms agreed in the policy matrix. That risk did not materialize, and as
noted earlier the reforms and objectives in the policy matrix have been implemented and indeed
strengthened in the National Development Plan. In other words, the objectives established in the
medium-term framework of Table 4.1 of the Policy Matrix in the loan agreement have been backed by
the new Government and are part of its priorities, as announced in the development plan. This will be
demonstrated below.

The Social Protection and Security System that the present Government plans to implement seeks to
protect the most vulnerable through the articulation, coordination and execution of existing programs as
well as new social programs, accompanied by financing mechanisms to guarantee their timely delivery.

In the health area, the plan calls for increasing insurance coverage and for achieving and maintaining
vaccination coverage rates above 95 percent for children under age five, under all categories of the
Expanded Immunization Program.




                                                   - 44 -

In education, expanded coverage goes hand-in-hand with the objective of improving the quality and
efficiency of the system, by redefining the resource allocation structure, among other measures.

Finally, the National Development Plan calls for a broad dissemination campaign to publicize the results
from monitoring the commitments established by the entities through the CONPES, as well as the
outcomes of the targeted evaluations of government programs. By articulating the components of
monitoring, targeted evaluations and dissemination, the National System for the Evaluation of Results
will become a tool for increasing the effectiveness and transparency of government management,
enhancing the efficiency of expenditure, improving the design of government policies and programs, and
involving the public at the various stages of administration.

III. LESSONS LEARNED

a.    Performance of the Government

The Government feels that the loan was successful for several reasons: i) it was properly prepared,
despite the short time that elapsed from the first mission until approval by the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors on August 1, 2002 (approximately seven months); ii) the economic and political
risks cited in the Bank President's memorandum to the Board did not materialize; iii) given the short
preparation time and the involvement of the various government entities, leadership by the DNP, as the
agency responsible for the loan, was important in terms both of coordination and of the technical
support provided to those entities; iv) permanent communication between the DNP and the Bank; and v)
continuity of the actions agreed in the policy matrix, which have received the backing of the new
Government.

b.    Performance of the Bank

Note should be taken of the following: i) The Bank supported the Government both in implementing the
structural (and non-cyclical) reforms of the social sector and in establishing a social safety net; ii) the
constant technical support received from the Bank, not only from the task manager and his team but also
through the Japanese grant and the joint study on the "Social Safety Net Assessment"; iii) the confidence
that the Bank contributed in the political context of a changing Government; and iv) the smooth flow of
communication between the Bank and the Government.

c.    Other lessons

The difficulties that arose, although they were overcome, revolved around the short preparation time for
the loan. Given the pressure to fulfill the conditions within the established time limit, any delay in
improving internal procedures for managing external loans could have delayed approval of the loan
beyond the established time limit. Moreover, that time limitation, coinciding with the end of the Bank's
fiscal year, prevented greater development and execution of the Bank's non-reimbursable financial
support.




                                                  - 45 -

- 46 -

