Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 7134-CO
Loan Agreement
(Social Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 6, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7134-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated June 24, 2002, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower’s social sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, 
the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase 
with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency of such 
deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such 
deposit account.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”;
(d)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Page  3
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 
9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CAIP” means 
Hogares Infantiles de Bienestar Familiar
,
the Borrower’s Center 
for Integrated Attention for Pre-School Credit;
(b)
“CNSSS” means 
Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social en Salud
,
the 
Borrower’s National Council of Social Security on Health;
(c)
“CODHES” means 
Consultoría para los Derechos Humanos y el
 
Desplazamiento
,
a
non
governmental organization which promotes human rights and 
consolidation of peace through research and dissemination of, 
inter alia
,
the problems of 
Colombia’s internally displaced population;
(d)
“CONPES” means an authoritative statement of government policy and 
guidelines issued by the Colombian Executive’s National Council of Social and Economic 
Policy;
(e)
“DANE” means 
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística
,
the 
Borrower’s National Department of Statistics;
(f)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(g)
“DNP” means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s National 
Planning Department;
(h)
“EPI” means 
Programa Ampliado de Inmunizaciones
,
the Borrower’s Expanded 
Program of Immunization;
(i)
“FOSYGA Solidarity Account” means 
Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantías
,
the 
Borrower’s account used to finance its general system of social security; 
(j)
“ICBF” means 
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the Borrower’s 
Institute for Family Welfare;
(k)
“INS” means 
Instituto Nacional de Salud
,
the Borrower’s National Health 
Institute;
(l)
“Law 715” means the Borrower’s 
Ley por la cual se Dictan Normas Orgánicas 
en Materia de Recursos y Competencias y se Dictan Otras Disposiciones para Organizar la 
Page  4
Prestación de los Servicios de Educación y Salud Entre Otros
,
published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette on December 21, 2001;
(m)
“MOE” means 
Ministerio de Educación
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(n)
“MOF” means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit;
(o)
“MOH” means 
Ministerio de Salud
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(p)
“NHS” means 
Superintendencia Nacional de Salud
,
the Borrower’s National 
Health Superintendency;
(q)
“Pastoral Social” means an organism within the 
Conferencia Episcopal 
Colombiana
 (Colombian Bishops Conference) that works on programs against poverty and has 
developed an information system on Colombia’s internally displaced population;
(r)
“Portfolio of Education Services” means 
Portafolio de Ofertas Educativas
,
the 
Borrower’s zone-based (rural/urban) education methodologies including 
Sistema de Aprendizaje 
Tutorial, Postprimaria Rural, Telesecundaria y Escuela Nueva
; 
(s)
“RSS” means 
Red de Solidaridad Social
,
an entity operating under the 
Borrower’s office of the President dealing with Colombia’s internally displaced population; and
(t)
“Territorial Entities” means the Borrower’s 
entidades territoriales 
defined in 
Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution, which consist of the departments, districts, 
municipalities and indigenous territories.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred and fifty five million 
Dollars ($155,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account: (i) pay the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; (ii) open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Page  5
Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or 
(ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be paid by the Borrower not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
Page  6
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal $155,000,000 
shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such 
amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01
.
The Borrower
 
shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any measure or action specified in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: (a) the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) an action has been taken or a policy has 
been adopted to reverse any action or policy under the Program (including any action or policy 
included in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) in a manner that would in the opinion of the Bank, 
after consultation with the Borrower, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The date December 5, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Bogotá, D.C.
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 350-9344
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Page  8
By  /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          
-
Alcoholic beverages
121                          
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                          
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
Page  9
525                          
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                         
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                         
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                         
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2007
through November 15, 2017
5%
(except on May 15 and
November 15, 2008,
dates in which no Installment
Share will be paid)
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any 
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
Page  11
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
1.
The Borrower’s executive has issued a CONPES describing a system of periodic impact 
and performance evaluations and public monitoring for the Borrower’s main social sector 
programs aimed at improving social sector transparency and accountability, as evidenced by 
issuance by DNP of an official document showing resource allocation in the Borrower’s 
proposed 2003 budget and terms of reference for: (a) impact performance evaluation for the 
Borrower’s safety net programs; and (b) dissemination and consultation activities for public 
monitoring activities.
2.
The Borrower’s executive has issued a CONPES specifying the design and 
implementation of a social risk management system and a time bound action plan for its 
implementation.
3.
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to improve the coverage, 
effectiveness and efficiency of ICBF: (a) development of a pilot program to decentralize and 
separate financing of ICBF programs from its provision in 10 municipalities, as evidenced by: (i) 
official copies of signed agreements between ICBF and each participating municipality for the 
establishment of said decentralization pilot project; and (ii) copies of evaluation reports approved 
by DNP on the progress of targets established for separating financing from provision; (b) 
ICBF’s board approval and implementation of an income-based cost-recovery policy for CAIP 
users, as evidenced by an agreement from the ICBF’s board confirming adoption and 
implementation of said cost-recovery policy; (c) improvement of monitoring through the 
launching of a citizens’ oversight plan in each ICBF regional office; as evidenced by:
(i)
copies of ICBF’s directive to its regional offices requesting them to 
present citizens’ oversight plans to improve social control;
Page  12
(ii)
copies of said plans from at least 65% of said regional offices; and 
(iii)
copies of ICBF’s board documents outlining an evaluation strategy of 
said plans and follow-up actions; and
(d)
initiation of a technical review of the management information system, as 
evidenced by copies of terms of reference and signed technical review contract.
4.
The Borrower has prepared a strategic plan, comprising the following actions, to assist 
its internally displaced population (IDP): (a) adoption of a common methodology for their 
characterization, as evidenced by the establishment of a council composed of DANE, RSS, 
CODHES and Pastoral Social to validate said methodology; and (b) development and 
implementation of a time bound action plan to eliminate their barriers to access the Borrower’s 
social programs, as evidenced by: (i) copies of said action plan signed between RSS and DNP; 
and (ii) issuance by DNP of an official document showing resource allocation in the Borrower’s 
proposed 2003 budget.
5.
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to expand health insurance coverage 
and improve related financial resource use: (a) expansion of the subsidized health insurance 
coverage (
Régimen Subsidiado
), as evidenced by copy of official document from MOF showing 
resource allocation to expand health insurance coverage to at least 350,000 additional 
individuals; (b) approval of new resource allocation model for Territorial Entities, as evidenced 
by Law 715; (c) issuance of a CONPES detailing the implementation rules for health transfers 
distribution pursuant to Law 715; (d) commitment to use the FOSYGA Solidarity Account 
resources exclusively for subsidizing health insurance coverage, as evidenced by copies of 
commitment letter from MOF; (e) enactment of regulations for the implementation of Law 715 
with respect to: (i) assignment of responsibilities for public health; and (ii) methodology for the 
distribution of health transfers, as evidenced by copies of enabling decree and copies of signed 
agreement of CNSSS defining the amount of resources destined to Territorial Entities to finance 
public health; and (f) allocation in the Borrower’s proposed 2003 budget of necessary resources 
to inform eligible poor population about the subsidized health insurance regime rights and its 
affiliation procedures, as evidenced by copies of the Borrower’s time-bound communication 
action plan and issuance by MOH of an official document showing resource allocation in the 
Borrower’s proposed 2003 budget.
6.
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to strengthen the operation of NHS: 
(a) enactment of decrees establishing the payment of fees by health insurers and providers to 
NHS and establishing the fee level; (b) contracting of a business study on NHS operation and 
identifying ways to re-enforce NHS role; and (c) internet dissemination of information by NHS 
on the performance of said health insurers and providers.
7.
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to strengthen EPI: (a) allocation of 
funds in the 2002 budget to finance immunization needs in year 2002 to achieve at least 95% 
vaccination coverage; (b) development of a detailed action plan and initiation of agreed key 
measures to strengthen EPI, as evidenced by copies of said action plan signed between MOH and 
INS; (c) allocation of necessary resources to execute said action plan, as evidenced by copy of 
official document from MOH showing resource allocation and signed contract for the first phase 
of a study to carry out an inventory of the Borrower’s cold chain system; and (d) definition of the 
assignment of responsibilities at the national level regarding immunization, as evidenced by 
Page  13
enactment of enabling decrees.
8.
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to improve its public education 
regulatory framework: (a) approval of a new resource allocation model for Territorial Entities 
based on number of students, population to be served, and poverty indicators, as evidenced by 
Law 715; (b) issuance of a CONPES detailing the implementation rules for education transfer 
distribution pursuant to Law 715; and (c) enactment of regulations for the implementation of 
Law 715 with respect to: (i) development of an education information system; (ii) strengthening 
the capacity of the Ministry of Education to assist Territorial Entities to develop their education 
information systems and their private education contracting guidelines, as evidenced by copies of 
said regulations; and (d) allocation of funds in the 2002 budget to assist Territorial Entities 
develop said systems, as evidenced by copy of official document from MOE showing resource 
allocation.
9.
The Borrower has signed and has started the implementation of at least ten performance 
agreements with Territorial Entities to rationalize the teaching force and extend education system 
coverage, as evidenced by copies of signed agreements.
10.
The Borrower has signed and has started the implementation of a monitoring agreement 
with Territorial Entities receiving educational transfers (pursuant to Law 715) to monitor 
compliance of the following agreed measures: (a) improvement of the reliability of the 
information on the number of students; (b) streamlining of the administrative structure of the 
Borrower’s education secretariats; and (c) increasing investment in non-salary education inputs 
and universal assessment of the educational achievement of children, as evidenced by copies of 
signed agreements.
11.
The Borrower has disseminated to the public at large information regarding: (a) student 
learning achievement of the last quality education assessment; and (b) the updating of the 
Borrower’s Portfolio of Education Services with inclusion of unit cost estimates for said 
services; as evidenced by: (i) press releases, public brochures and factual availability of internet 
information; and (ii) copies of revised drafts of said education portfolio.
12.
The Borrower has developed a methodology and short listed consultants to carry out an 
assessment of models for the expansion of basic and middle education through the use of 
education technology, as evidenced by copies of said methodology, terms of reference and 
shortlist of consultants.
13.
The Borrower has allocated in its 2002 budget and/or proposed 2003 budget $5,000,000 
for a technical assistance fund for the purposes of supporting the Program.
