Document of
The World Bank
Report No:19155
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
July 2, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 10, 1999)
Unit of currency: Kuna
US$1.0 = Kuna 7.08385
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALC       Alternative Level of Care
CAS       CounLry Assistance Strategy
CEE       Central and Eastern Europe
CIHI      Croatian Institute for Health Insurance
CQI       Continuous Quality Improvement
CVD       Cardiovascular Disease
DALY      Disability Adjusted Life Year
DC        Direct Contracting
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
EDL       Essential Drug List
ENT       Ear Nose & Throat
EU        European Union
FMS       Financial Management System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GP        General Practitioner
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICD       International Classification of Diseases
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IS        International Shopping
JCAH      Joint Council on the Accreditation of Hospitals
LTC       Long Term Care
MIS       Management Information System
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOH       Ministry of Health
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NCD       Non-Communicable Diseases
NIPH      National Institute of Public Health
NS        National Shopping
PHC       Primary Health Care
PHCC      Primary Health Care Center
PHRD      Population and Human Resource Development
PMU       Project Management Unit
PMR       Project Management Report
POM       Project Operational Manual
SCT       Social Costs of Transition
SFRY      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
WHO       World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director: Chris Lovelace
Team Leader: Verdon Staines



iii
Croatia
Health System Project
CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective  ........................                               .........................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance  indicators  ..............                                    .................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the Project .....................................................2
2.  Sector issues to  be addressed by the Project and  strategic choices .............................3
C. Project Description  Summary ................................................................                                        10
1. Project components ................................................................. 10
2. Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the Project ................................. 12
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                12
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ......................................................... 13
5. Disbursement mechanisms ................................................................                                       15
6. Finance ................................................................                                                       15
7. Retroactive Financing ................................................................                                         16
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                   17
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ........................................... 17
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..... 19
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed Project design .......................................... 19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................                                ................... 20
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this Project ............................................................... 20
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ...............................................................                                          20
1. Economic ............................................................... 20
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                      22
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                      22
4.  Institutional ............................................................... 22
5.  Social ............................................................... 22
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                       22
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................                                         23
F.  Sustainability  and Risks ...............................................................                                          24
I.  Sustainability .............................................................                                                  24
2. Critical risks .............................................................                                                   24
3.  Possible controversial aspects .............................................................                                  25
G.  Main  Loan Conditions ............................................................... 26
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ............................................................... 26
2. Conditions of Disbursement (for Component 3 only) ................................................. 27



iv
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                                                27
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................................................                                                             27
ANNEXES ..............................................................                                                                                       29
Annex I Project Design Summary ..............................................................                                                                29
Annex 2  Detailed Project Description .............................................................. 34
Annex 3 Estimated Project Costs ..............................................................                                                                38
Annex 4 Overview  of Economic Analysis ..............................................................                                                         60
Annex 5 Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities (not applicable) ........ 74
Annex 6 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................... 75
Annex 7 Review of Financial Management Arrangements .............................................. 118
Annex 8 Pharmaceutical Waste Disposal Component ....................................................... 122
Annex  9   Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule  ............................................................  136
Annex  10   Documents  in  Project File                               ............................              .................................. 137
Annex 11 Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    ........................................... 138
Annex 12 Country at a Glance ..............................................................                                                                 140
Map               Republic of Croatia (IBRD 30459)



1
Croatia
Health System Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Date: July 22, 1999                                     Team Leader: Verdon S. Staines
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann                      Sector Director: Chris Lovelace
Project ID: HR-PE-5 1273    Sector: H-NP                Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan (S IL)       Program of Targeted Intervention:    [X] Yes       INo
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan          [ICredit        [IGuarantee         []Other [Specif~y]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$29 million
Proposed terms:                           [I Multicurrency         [x)  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5             [] Standard Variable   [3 Fixed                [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge:
Front End Fee: 1%
Financing plan (UJS$m):
Source                                Local               Foreign             Total
Government                                                        10.9                 0                 10.9
IBRD                                                              2.9                 26.1               29.0
Total                                                 E13.9                           26.1               40.0
Borrower: Republic of Croatia
Guarantor: not applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        2000        2001       2002        2003
Annual      5.3        11.0         10.0         2.7
Cumnulative     5.3        16.3        26.3        29.0
For Guarantees:                                    [I    Partial credit   liiPartial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                [3     Yes               [3    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years  Expected effectiveness date: 1/1/00  Expected closing date: 06/30/04



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (Annex 1):
The proposed Loan would enhance Croatia's capacity to achieve a more effective,
efficient, and financially sustainable health system, through: (a) strengthening institutional
capacity within the health sector; (b) introducing pilot delivery system improvements and a
national heart disease program; (c) strengthening public health activities; (d) developing policy
options that will increase the sector's financial sustainability; (e) improving and expanding the
health information system; and (f) disposing of outdated and unusable pharmaceuticals.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14088-HR.
Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1999 (with Government)
The CAS recently discussed with the Board presented Croatia as "a country at a critical
juncture, having to face difficult economic, political and external challenges. After several years
of growth and recovery, deep structural reforms are now necessary to maintain macroeconomic
stability and sustain growth. These challenges need to be met while coping with the negative
impact of the conflict in Kosovo ... Recovery of sustainable growth will require the maintenance
of macroeconomic and financial stability. A reduction in fiscal expenditures and banking sector
reforns are necessary, to maintain fiscal balance and accommodate tight monetary policy....
(M)easures need to address issues of the size and role of the state and efficiency of public
administration. A reduction in social expenditures through pension and health system reforms is
essential. Preparation of a multi-pillar pension system is well advanced. Public expenditures
need to be reduced, and managed efficiently and with transparency."
In short, the new CAS emphasizes development objectives that are framed in terms of
preserving or restoring the preconditions for economic stability and, on this basis, supporting the
transition from economic and social stabilization to economic and social sustainability. Social
sustainability will entail health system reform and modernization as well as completion of
pension reform, a poverty assessment, and education sector work. Economic sustainability will
require that the public sector shrink from its present level of almost 50 percent of GDP through
ftirther progress in privatization, priority setting among public investment projects, and greater
selectivity in other public spending. In particular, the drain on the budget flowing from
structural deficits in the extra-budgetary health and pension funds will need to be addressed.
Health policies and the health-care system will need to be designed and managed so that total
health expenditures-an aggregate that reflects millions of decentralized clinical decisions made
during interactions between physicians and patients-are at levels that the country wishes, and
can afford, to sustain.
In August 1993, the Government initiated sweeping changes in the health system Croatia
inherited. A Health Care Act established primary care as the foundation of the health-care
system, transferred ownership of most health facilities from social ownership to the state and
counties, defined a new management structure for all health institutions, authorized private
practice and health facilities, and mandated that the Ministry of Health define a national network



3
of health institutions that would be eligible for financing under a new health insurance system.
The latter was to be overseen by a Croatian Health Insurance Institute (CIHI) with considerable
authority to collect contributions, contract with health providers, and regulate the business
transactions of health facilities and private practitioners. In most respects, the 1993 reforms have
served the health sector and the country well.
Despite Croatia's progress so far in health sector reform, underlying pressures in its
health-care system are causing expenditures to out-strip revenues to an increasing degree. The
visible problem is that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute (CIHI) faces a large structural
deficit. The excess of health expenditures over CIHI's actual revenues was about one percent of
GDP annually from 1996 through 1998. (However, CIHI's outstanding liabilities at end-1998
were roughly matched on paper by outstanding obligations for unpaid contributions, with public-
sector institutions among the major defaulters.) The underlying, and more fundamental, problem
lies in Croatia's failure to change the unsustainably high cost structure of health facilities or to
reduce the yawning gap between public and professional expectations of the health sector, on the
one hand, and available national resources, on the other.
Croatia has a population of 4.8 million and its overall epidemiological conditions are
characteristic of an aging population, with high adult mortality, especially among males,
dominated by lifestyle-related non-communicable diseases. (In fact, the population consumes
less alcohol than many of its Eastern and western European neighbors, though its consumption of
cigarettes is about the same as most CEE countries.) Life expectancies have risen continuously
since 1970, with the exception of 1991-2, due to the war. In 1995, life expectancies were 69 for
men and 77.2 for women . Infant mortality rates have declined: in 1990 the infant mortality rate
was 10.7 per 1000 live births and by 1996 it had decreased to 8.0. A major cause of death was
circulatory diseases for which the standardized death rose from 344 per 100,000 in 1980 to 543
per 100,000 in 1996. (The second major cause of death was malignant neoplasms for which the
standardized death rate rose from 186 per 100,000 in 1980 to 213 per 100,000 in 1990, then
declined to 201 per 100,000 in 1995 and rose again to 215 per 100,000 in 1996.)
2. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
The main sector issues are how to: (i) continue the transformation from a socially
managed health system functioning in a socialist framework to an effective, efficient and
affordable system  functioning in a market-oriented environment; (ii) achieve financial
sustainability and realistic expectations within the evolving system; (iii) optimize the mix of
preventive and curative services as the burden of illness shifts towards non-communicable
diseases; (iv) create a delivery system that offers a range of affordable interventions that is better
matched to the major causes of illness, disability and death among the population; (v) complete
the process of sectoral recovery from war-related damage and dislocation; and (vi) restructure
medical education accordingly.
Continuing the Transformation
The over-arching medium-term issue facing health policymakers is how best to balance
'OECD Health Data, Paris, 1997



4
the trade-offs among four intermediate objectives. These are: -(-i) incentives for efficient behavior
by consumers and providers; (ii) equity, in the form of universal access to needed care at
affordable prices; (iii) consistent attainment of high quality care; and (iv) containment of health-
care costs within limits judged politically to be socially appropriate. Since 1993, Croatia has
established a modem administrative framework for health insurance. It has also made significant
progress towards a predominantly private system of primary health care (PHC) that is structured,
financed and equipped more appropriately than before and that offers a viable alternative to
seeking basic care from the hospital sector. Now, the practical issue is how best to restructure
the system of hospitals and other secondary health services so as to complement the PHC system
in a clinically effective but cost-conscious way. To address either the practical issue or the over-
arching issue, however, will require parallel efforts to improve health information, financing,
governance and regulatory systems within the sector.
The Government has approached continuation of the sector's transformation by first
defining a sequenced medium-term program of needed changes for the sector and then carving
oujt part of this program for a manageable loan Project supported by the Bank. The medium-term
reform program extends the earlier 1993 reform agenda to address structural problems in the
health sector and thereby to make more effective use of the resources available to the sector on a
sustainable basis. To oversee the health reform program, the Government established a broadly
based Project Council, ten expert working groups focused on key areas, and a core steering
committee.
The reform strategy is built partly around a process of well-informed experimentation
rather than a preordained set of solutions. Croatian health authorities have refrained from
assuming that the right answers to Croatia's health-sector problems can be specified in advance
based on theory and overseas experience alone. They are justifiably wary of the unintended
consequences of complex and potentially interacting innovations transferred from other
countries. Accordingly, they are seeking to diagnose their systemic problems clearly and then to
develop credible alternative options for addressing the most significant problems. They will then
pilot those options and evaluate them. In this way, they will simultaneously test what potential
solutions actually work in Croatia, either individually or in combination, and will create
demonstration projects that offer examples of successfully functioning model solutions. The
demonstration value of the pilots should help substantially in building political acceptance,
among both health professionals and the public, for innovative approaches that require changes
from traditional approaches to sectoral organization and management.
Achieving Sustainability
Although the reforms of 1993 helped accelerate the development of a modern health
system, the health financing crisis that emerged in October 1998 shows that those reforms alone
have not stabilized the sector. Croatia must now choose between adopting further reforms in its
health sector or allowing the system to regress. The status quo is not an option.
To deal effectively with the financing crisis and to renew the momentum of sectoral
development, the country needs to commit itself to a well-designed strategy for wide-ranging and
sustainable reforms with a medium-term focus. Accordingly, Croatia should reach a social



5
judgment through its political processes about what share of its. total resources it wishes, and can
afford, to devote to the health sector. It must then design a system that functions within that
resource ceiling to prevent illness where possible and, when necessary, to provide clinically.
appropriate, technically proficient and cost-effective curative care. This system must ensure that
every Kuna spent makes the maximum possible contribution to good health status among the
population and good health outcomes from care provided. Also, the substantial evolutionary
change required must be accomplished while retaining the overall confidence of the public and of
health professionals.
Achieving financial sustainability within the evolving system will require coordinated
short-term and medium-term strategies. This is because the medium-term strategy's impact on
health expenditures would not begin to affect the level and effectiveness of health spending until
2000 although it would have a growing effect thereafter.
The Government's short-term strategy has addressed CIHI's immediate arrears problem
through a combination of budget support and short term paper, issued by the Croatian Institute
for Health Insurance and guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance. This left unresolved the
anticipated new deficit for 1999, which in December was projected to be 1.5 billion kuna (or
12.9 percent of CIHI's expected revenues) if wage growth for health workers is modest.
Accordingly, in January 1999, the Government announced the introduction of a reference pricing
system for pharmaceuticals and new hard budget ceilings for individual health facilities,
although the effectiveness of each measure in reducing expenditures will depend on
implementation arrangements. In addition, the Government is investigating other possible policy
measures that could have a short-term impact. That investigation has recently been linked to a
new initiative to prepare emergency Bank adjustment support and to associated efforts to reduce
spending by the extra-budgetary health and pension funds.
Concerning a medium-term strategy, in June 1998, the Ministry of Health outlined the
broad directions of its recommended reform program for the sector's development in Croatia
2000: Project Health. The Government of the Republic of Croatia elaborated these directions in
its Report on the Situation in Health Care in Croatia in the Period 1995-1998, which it
submitted to the Parliament in December 1998. The Government's report endorsed and included
a health reform matrix that was developed in June 1998 as an initial proposal for the Health
System Project. The report also outlined more recent Government thinking about longer term
reform, which goes beyond the earlier matrix. The report expressed interest in longer-term
solutions that include budgetary financing of contributions for children and those over age 65,
introduction of state-run "complementary insurance" to elicit larger contributions to health
financing from the non-poor, reference pricing for pharmaceuticals (implemented in February
1999), categorization and accreditation of hospitals, as well as contracting out of their hotel
service functions, and fund-holding for general practice. Some further reductions in the numbers
of hospital beds or health-care workers are planned through contracted levels and re-
categorization.
The Government's position is further indicated by recent actions relating to the first
Bank-supported Health Project. The Government and the Bank agreed to a one-year extension
of the closing date of the Health Project so that unallocated funds can be used, consistent with



6
that Project's objectives, to finance additional activities that will provide a bridge to the second
Project and accelerate introduction of the reforms that the second Project would support. Taken
together with preparation activities for the second Project, the activities include technical
assistance to prepare options and proposals relating to alternative sources of health financing,
primary health-care group practices that function as fund-holders, pilots for more cost-effective
approaches to hospital care, categorization of hospitals, standards and accreditation, clinical
protocols, pharmaceuticals, and initiatives for health information systems. These initiatives will
give CIHI and policy makers additional technical and institutional tools that are prerequisites for
achieving increased overall control over total health expenditures.
Croatia's health-sector development has reached a critical point. The Ministry's
proposals for sectoral reform will help create the organizational and informational prerequisites
for a system that can use resources much more effectively. However, serious reform programs
inevitably involve difficult decisions. Ultimately, these are political rather than technical in
nature. New investments under a second health Project that lay the groundwork for more
effective resource use would offer increasing benefits, and have an increasing impact on sector
expenditures, to the degree that rationalization programs are implemented boldly during the life
of the Project.
Optimizing the Mix of Services
One priority in ongoing reform of the health system will be to reduce the high prevalence
of avoidable illness through continued emphasis on health promotion, further attention to
primary and secondary prevention of disease, and expanded public health measures. Croatia has
a long-standing history of public health capacity and training. This has been primarily oriented
toward infectious diseases, but a substantial effort at non-communicable diseases (NCD) control
and health promotion was part of the first Bank-supported Health Project. This included: a
media campaign; a 1995 baseline health survey; a high school student survey on knowledge,
attitudes, and practices; and training of health educators. A Health Strategy and master plan
have been developed that include substantial health promotion objectives, but that do not clearly
spell out the actual implementation activities.
The need now is to re-orient public health activities from infectious disease towards NCD
issues. This could include establishing an organizational structure for sustainable health
promotion within the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH); strengthening NCD
epidemiological capacity for planning, evaluation, and related public health analysis and decision
making within the Ministry of Health (MOH); facilitating such analysis by improving links
between epidemiological, clinical and health financing data systems; establishing more
systematic behavioral surveillance to monitor risk factors; improving secondary prevention
activities with development of guidelines for GPs and linkages to county public health programs;
andL expanding the health promotion campaign to be policy-oriented, targeted to risk groups, and
more hard-hitting.
As part of its policy to optimize the mix of services and modernize patterns of clinical
care, the Ministry of Health is committed to a new national program for heart disease that will
address this crucial area of non-communicable disease through a broadly based, coordinated
program of initiatives at the primary, secondary and (to a limited degree) tertiary levels, all



7
supported by additional public health measures. At the primary level, for people without known
heart disease, the main focus is on reducing risk factors (for example, through institutionalizing
financial support for ongoing health promotion activities within the Ministry's budget; expanded.
risk-monitoring, risk-counseling and risk-management activities; and continued regulatory
initiatives to control tobacco advertising and use). At the secondary level, for people known to
have cardiovascular conditions that pose a health risk, the program will incorporate behavioral
and pharmaceutical risk-management strategies, stronger incentives for group practices within
PHC pilots to manage more complex conditions so as to avoid acute incidents, and development
of clinical protocols and practice guidelines for effective cardiovascular care. At the tertiary
level, for people experiencing acute episodes, the Ministry envisages investments in cardiac
diagnostic centers, emergency care units, and training, as well as improvements in the system of
emergency medical services that build on those introduced during the first Health Project.
Annex 4 provides further details and related discussion.
Aligning Care Offered with Care Required
Because most purely financial levers for constraining health expenditures (such as
capitation of primary health care and use of facility-level global budgets) are already being used
in some manner, further improvements in the effectiveness of resource use within the sector will
require changes in the way the health-care delivery system functions. In particular, it will
require: (a) better matching of clinical services to medical needs through changes in the structure
of the delivery system and in the modes of clinical practice that health professionals employ,
and (b) a careful review of the optimal mix of inputs to the production of health-care services.
Introducing and sustaining reforms along these lines would require complementary initiatives in
the systems of health financing, health information and health regulation.
Within the PHC subsector, achieving more clinically appropriate and effective use of
resources would require enhanced coordination of care at the patient level, greater integration of
care with community-based services, and greater focus on early intervention and ambulatory
disease management. To achieve this, the governrment intends to experiment with group
practices of differing size and composition, supported by appropriate technology, that would
have medical and financial responsibility for managing an expanded set of services. These could
include referrals, diagnostic and lab services, prescriptions, case (disease) management and,
possibly for some practices later on, discretionary hospital care. They would be paid through
capitation arrangements that are modified to reflect (and reward) the greater responsibilities.
Options would be developed about risk and the use of any savings achieved. Together, these
changes would create new incentives and opportunities for better care and more effective use of
resources.
In the hospital sector, achieving more clinically appropriate and effective use of resources
would involve: differentiating more carefully the levels of inpatient care that patients require;
matching these more appropriately with new arrangements that offer alternative levels of care;
supporting the changes with both appropriate technology and new approaches to hospital
payment (for example, that bundle elements of the current payment formula and thereby
restructure incentives); reducing the emphasis on long inpatient stays; and outsourcing hospitals'
hotel services (catering, cleaning, and laundry) to private contractors. Programs involving
alternative levels of care could include day surgery, day hospital, hospice, respite and home-



8
support programs. These approaches would also be linked to the development of a new process
for planning hospital rationalization.
Overcoming the Consequences of War
Following its declaration of independence from the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY) in June 1991, Croatia was involved in a war that did not completely end
until 1995. This substantially degraded the already inadequate health infrastructure that Croatia
had inherited from SFRY. Residual unrepaired damage from the warfare includes damage to
hospitals and other health facilities in Eastern Slavonia and elsewhere. In addition, Croatia must
still deal with the residue of a large volume of pharmaceutical products that were donated
through international aid programs but that are either outdated or otherwise inappropriate. This
residue is itself a large stock. It remains in storage around the country that is often inadequate
and that represents a risk to both the population and the environment.
Restructuring Medical Education
Croatian authorities recognize the need for complementary changes in the system of
medical education. The restructured system should graduate a smaller class of new doctors who
have been trained through a less compartmentalized curriculum. A higher proportion of them
should have chosen, and been trained, to become general practitioners rather than specialists.
Medical education should also prepare physicians to work effectively within multi-disciplinary
teams and to maintain an ongoing involvement in continuing medical education programs.
Of these six sectoral issues described above, the Project addresses aspects of five:
*  The Project will assist in continuing the transformation, achieving medium-term
sustainability, and aligning care offered with care required, by supporting: (a) evaluated
pilots for fund-holding group practices as well as for alternative levels of care, (b) supporting
complementary initiatives in health financing, health information strategies and systems, and
health-sector regulation and governance, and (c) a multi-faceted national health-care program
for heart disease .
*  A public health component will help to optimize the mix of services.
*  A  pharmaceuticals component will support the disposal of outdated or unusable
pharmaceuticals received as war-related humanitarian aid.
The Project, however will not address medical education reform, partly because of the
scale of that undertaking and partly because medical education is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Education and Science rather than of the Ministry of Health.
The choice among alternative project structures reflects a series of strategic decisions.
The key threat to Croatia's health-care system is its lack of financial sustainability.



9
*  In principle, the solution has three elements. First, reduce the extent of avoidable illness.
Second, develop new, more cost-conscious approaches to the organization and delivery of
care-particularly hospital care-that do not undermine either access to needed care or the
quality of care. Third, design the health financing system so that it can impose an overall
ceiling on health expenditures that reflects a social judgment, reached through Croatia's
political processes, about what share of total resources the country wishes, and can afford, to
devote to health. (The second and third elements require creating new levers and mechanisms
that increase control over the quality and costs of clinical care, especially that within
hospitals.)
* Making that solution operational requires a medium-term strategy with multiple elements.
To formulate this medium-term strategy, Croatia should adopt an open process that identifies a
reform program that can elicit the support of a professional consensus within the country.



10
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                       Category      Cost IncL.    % of    Bank        % of
Contingencies  Total  Financing    Bank
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
1. Health Services Delivery
US$26.4 million (total cost of component)                            26.4       66       18.5        64
1A. Primary Health Care (PHC)                                         2.9        7        2.3         8
Development of group practice pilots in Koprivnica for
medical group practices through the provision of medical Physical
equipment, training and technical assistance in financial  Investment
management.
1B. Hospitals and Secondary Services                                 23.5       59       16.2       56
Hospitals and Secondary Services: (a) Technical  Physical
assistance to develop a strategy for restructuring and  Investment
rationalization of the acute care unit in the Koprivnica  Policy/
Hospital; (b) development of demonstration programs    Institution
for alternative levels of medical care including day  Building
surgery, hospice, respite, home and ambulatory care; and
(c) provision of resuscitation/monitoring equipment for
twenty county emergency rooms and equipment for two
cardiac diagnostic centers in Zagreb to provide
sophisticated secondary prevention services.
2. Public Health - US$1.5million (total cost of                        1.5       4        1.0         3
component)
2A. Health monitoring and Program Evaluation     Physical
Investment
Support to series of initiatives building on activities of
the first Health Project, including surveys, data  Policy/
collection, analysis and reporting, national health  Institution
planning and strategy development, health promotion  Building
training, and media advocacy campaign.
2B. National health promotion
Support to the Croatia National Institute of Public
Health (NIPH) for a unit specializing in health
promotion; national health planning and strategy
development; health promotion training; and a strong
media advocacy campaign will be developed and
implemented as a tool of the health promotion.



11
Component                       Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank        % of
Contingencies  Total  Financing    Bank
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
3. Pharmaceutical Waste Disposal -US$3.8 million    Physical          3.8       1 0       3.1       11 
(total cost of component)                        Investment
Unusable or outdated pharmaceutical materials, donated  Policy/
during the period of war, and which now represent a  Institution
hazard to segments of the population and the      Building
environment, would be disposed of using methods
consistent with international environmental best
practices and acceptable to the World Bank.
4. System-Wide Initiatives - US$6.9 million (total cost
of component)                                    Physical             6.9       17        5.3        18
Investment
Strengthen systems in ways that support the first three
components and that also provide essential building  Policy/
blocks for regulatory, governance and management  Institution
initiatives within this component. Initiatives would  Building
include: (a) support for new management information
systems in the Koprivnica hospital and county that
integrate clinical, administrative, and financial
information; (b) development of new system to collect
and analyze patient-level data; (c) development of
clinical protocols that could incorporate pharmaceutical
protocols; (d) development of formal standards for
facilities and guidelines for care; (e) development of a
department within the MOH to supervise and coordinate
these activities; (f) development of inter-related
simulation models for health revenues and expenditures;
(g) training of practice managers to create a new cadre
of experts to provide administrative and managerial
support for PHC groups;
5. Project Management - US$1.3 million (total cost of
component)                                       Physical              1.3       3        1.1         4
Investment
The Project Management Component through the
establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU),   Institution
will be responsible for: implementing the Project;  Building
monitoring progress of the four primary components;
ensuring the proper sequencing of studies, pilots and
expansion activities; and maintaining all required records
and management systems.
Total        39.9     100       29.0       100



12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
The Project will support systemic reform of the health system by piloting primary health-
care group practices, hospital reform and restructuring, and initiatives in public health, data
collection, health financing standards and protocols, and health promotion. More specifically,
these will include:
*  Fostering a culture that values healthy lifestyles and exploits all opportunities to prevent
disease, including through the creation of an institutional home within NIPH for health
promotion activities initially supported through the Health Project.;
*  Structuring the decision-making responsibilities of physicians with different roles in the
health system so that the system as a whole provides coordinated, clinically appropriate, cost-
effective care for each individual, while promoting clinical practice patterns that adapt the
best medical evidence and professional judgment to Croatian circumstances, including
through the piloting of fund-holding group practices;
*  Developing information and management systems as a step towards giving health sector
managers both the technical tools and the autonomy they need if they are to be held
accountable for clinical excellence and effective resource use; and developing a more
integrated national structure of health data collection with a broadened scope that includes
information on co-morbidities and secondary diagnoses;
*  Improving institutional capacity to plan and manage health-sector reform;
D  Supporting development of clinical protocols and practice guidelines for selected principal
disease conditions;
D  Supporting the development of projection models for health revenues and expenditures;
*  Piloting and evaluating options for capitated group practices with and without fund-holding
and options for bundled, prospective or case-mix-adjusted payment of hospitals; and
*  Preparing and piloting rationalization plans for a pilot hospital, together with associated
management and fnancing improvements, and development of alternative levels of care.
3. Benefits and target population:
The key benefits resulting from this Project will be: (a) progress in establishing the
preconditions for improved health status for the Croatian population; (b) a health sector that is
becoming more effective at preventing avoidable illness, at offering the most clinically
appropriate care when people require it, and at using available resources in an economically
efficient manner that is fiscally sustainable; and (c) removing potentially hazardous
pharmaceutical materials without diverting resources from current clinical services.
The key beneficiaries include: (a) the population of Croatia in general and Koprivnica
county in particular; (b) the Ministries of Health and Finance as well as CIHI and NIPH; (c)
physicians, nurses, and other health professionals; and (d) associations, trade unions and other
stakeholders.



13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management: The proposed Project would be implemented over a four year
period by the Ministry of Health, which is the executing agency for the Project. The Ministry of
Health will work in collaboration with the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance (CIHI) and the
National Institute of Public Health (NIPH), both of which agencies will be beneficiaries of the
loan, as well as being involved in implementing the Project. Overall responsibility for the
Project would rest with the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health will have a Project
Management Unit (PMU) which will have management responsibility for the project activities.
In addition to task forces which were formed prior to Negotiations, additional task forces could
be formed by decision of the Minister of Health from time to time during the course of
implementation to provide policy advice and guidance concerning the Project.
To provide policy oversight and direction, a Steering Committee, comprising the Minister
of Health, Director of CIHI, Director of NIPH, and the Project Director and Program Director
from the PMU, will be established. This committee will be chaired by the Minister of Health. In
addition to working groups prior to Negotiations, additional task forces could be formed by
decision of the Steering Committee from time to time during the course of implementation to
provide policy advice and guidance concerning the Project.
The PMU will build on already existing capacities, in particular in project management,
developed under the on-going Health Project which is scheduled to close at the end of 1999. The
PMU will comprise, at minimum, six full-time positions: Project Director (project management
responsibilities), Program Director (policy management), Technical Specialist (to support the
Program Director), Procurement Officer, Financial Officer, and Administrative Assistant.
Additional support in areas of procurement and working group coordination will be financed
through short-term consultancies. Initial training will be funded through the Japan Grant to
develop skills in the areas of World Bank procurement and financial management.
Summary of Implementation Responsibilities: The Project will be implemented in close
coordination and collaboration with the central and county offices of the MOH and CIHI, and
with the NIPH, as well as with other donor funded activities in the health sector (e.g., EU-
PHARE, WHO). From the operational point of view, the Project will be implemented by the
existing departments of the MOH, with technical assistance provided, as needed.
The responsibilities of the PMU regarding general project management are:
*  To establish and secure the functional operation of the PMU;
*  To oversee and manage Project activities to ensure the successful and timely implementation
of the Project;
*  To set the policies, strategies and targets to ensure achievement of Project objectives for the
MOH; to review them as required; and to take necessary steps to secure the Government's
political commitment required for implementation of sector reform activities;
* To ensure that financial resources are provided from the Loan and that the Government funds
are made available in a timely manner;



14
*  To undertake planning, coordination, management, monitoring and reporting functions for all
activities financed under the Project;
*  To monitor Project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process disbursement
applications in collaboration with the (designated commercial Bank), track disbursements of
the Loan and Government funds; and maintain Project records and accounts;
*  To ensure compliance with the procurement procedures to be agreed with the Bank in the
acquisition of equipment and software packages, administration of supply and technical
assistance contracts; and to ensure consolidation of requests and procurement of goods and
services in accordance with World Bank Guidelines;
*  To ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Project Management
Reports) to the relevant government and other participating institutions, including the Bank,
reflecting: (a) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective
actions needed; and (b) current costs of each Project component and estimated costs of
completion;
*  To ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government institutions and the
Bank of annual audit reports of Project expenditure, including periodic Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) and accounts;
3  To ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through the usual approval
processes and undertake measures to expedite their release;
a  To ensure the most efficient use of Project resources; financial, staffing and time; to develop
administrative and operational procedures for this purpose, and to assemble this information
in a Project Operational Manual, to be prepared before Project Effectiveness;
* To ensure coordination with other donor-funded activities to ensure that all externally funded
activities support the medium-term strategy for sector reform; and
*  To ensure the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months
after Project completion.



15
5. Disbursement Mechanisms
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four and a half years,
which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven years). The
disbursement profile for the Project has been based on experience gained during the previous
Bank-funded Project in the health sector. The Project has been designed within the capacity of
the Ministry of Health to execute over a four year period.  Implementation and related
disbursements will be facilitated by having defined equipment lists and agreed terms of reference
prior to Project implementation. The Closing Date will be June 30, 2004. A summary of the
disbursement plan is shown on page 1 of this document.
By effectiveness, an acceptable financing management system (FMS) will have been put
in place. Disbursements will start using traditional disbursement methods - Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) reimbursements, direct payment, etc. After the PMU has gained experience
with the FMS and reporting under project management reports (PMRs), and provided that an
improved FMS is reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, and with agreement of the
Borrower, the Project will move to PMR-based disbursements. All disbursements against
contracts for goods and works costing US$300,000 or more equivalent, and services and training
for consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more and individual consultants costing US$50,000
or more will be fully documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) with the exception of the first two International
Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS), and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) packages and
the first Minor Works (MW) package. This documentation will be made available for the
required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the PMU for at
least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the
proceeds of the Bank Loan and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PMU,
in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, denominated in
US dollars. The authorized allocation for Special Account will be US$1.0 million. However,
during the initial stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$0.4 million will be deposited in
the Special Account. When the aggregate amount of disbursement reaches US$5.0 million, the
amount deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of
US$1.0 million.
Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation
6. Finance, Accounting andAuditingArrangements.
The MOH will be responsible for financial management of the Project (see Annex 7 for
detailed financial management arrangements). The Financial Officer in the PMU will design a
Project and Financial Management Information System (PFMIS) which will include, inter alia,
an accounting and control module with the capability to record and retrieve, in a timely manner,
all financial transactions under the Project. The PFMIS will comply with internationally
accepted standards and will: (i) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial
transactions of the Project; and (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing and



16
monitoring Project activities. The accounting module will have a Chart of Accounts, which will
reflect the sources of funds; it will be broken down into different types of expenditures by type
and component. Furthermore, it will provide information on the receipt and use of funds and
will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given
time. The system will be capable of providing financial data to measure performance when
linked to the outputs of the Project. The PMU will maintain consolidated accounts and will
ensure appropriate accounting of the funds provided. The PMU will prepare project management
reports (PMRs) on a quarterly basis. These reports will include financial statements, Project
progress reports and procurement management reports. The PMR will be in a format that was
discussed during Negotiations and will follow examples given in the Bank's Project Financial
Management Manual. The Special Account will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines
for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982) and
the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, 1995. The annual audits of the
Project accounts will be financed under the Loan. Project audits will be carried out by a
commercial auditing firm under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  Acceptable
accounting and auditing standards for the purposes of Section 4.01 are: International Accounting
St,andards, published by the International Accounting Standards Committee; and International
Standards on the Auditing, published by the International Federation of Accountants.
7. Retroactive Financing
The Project may include retroactive financing for works, goods and consultant
services/training. Only those contracts will be acceptable under retroactive financing which
meet the Bank's procurement guidelines. Agreement was reached with the Government at
Negotiations on retroactive financing in the amount of US$1.0 million for items and services
relating to Project implementation that are needed urgently, and also for consultant services and
training for the PMU staff, including foreign study tours. The date for retroactive financing is
June 30, 1999.
Flow of Funds
The Government of the Republic of Croatia will channel funds (through Ministry of
Finance) to the MOH. The PMU will be responsible for handling all disbursements under the
Loan.
Mid-term Review.
At the time of the estimated mid-point of the Project - December 2001 - the Borrower
will be required to undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project. This
review will be undertaken in consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory, to the Bank. By
March 31, 2002, the Borrower will prepare and furnish to the Bank a report regarding the results
of the mid-term review, including progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and
measures recommended to ensure the achievement of the Project's operation and development
objectives during the remaining Project period.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The PMU will prepare in collaboration with the Bank, an ICR upon Project completion,
and in any event, not later than six months after final disbursement of the Loan proceeds. The
ICR will include an assessment of the execution of the Project, costs and benefits derived or to



17
be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in Project
implementation, regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments, and including
lessons learned. The ICR will also include plans for the future operation of the facilities which
had been financed under the Project, including proposed indicators to monitor and evaluate
future operations.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out in five main areas: (a) procurement
and physical delivery of goods; (b) physical implementation of Project activities; (c) impact on
service delivery; (d) financial management and control of Project funds; and (e) capacity
building under the Project. As noted in Annex 1, the final set of objectively verifiable
(quantitative) indicators was agreed at Negotiations.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Initially, the Government of Croatia was interested in borrowing, as in the first Health
Project, to meet a number of short-term  or specific needs.  Those proposed included
cardiovascular surgery centers, housing for hospital staff unable to be transferred to war-
damaged Vukovar because of accommodation shortages, and computer systems for GPs offices
that would provide on-line linkages to CIHI. These were envisioned as separate, discrete
activities, rather than as part of a comprehensive health strategy that linked different parts of the
health system, or provided overall reform and development.
Subsequently, however, as underlying pressures within the system became more
apparent, the Government, working with the Bank team, decided on a more strategic and
integrated concept that would support health system reform and modernization. The Government
appointed a steering committee and working groups whose aim was to develop a comprehensive
strategy for reforn that linked changes in financing, health care delivery, public health,
management and governance. From discussions based on the work of these groups, a more
detailed concept of the Project emerged.
That concept envisages selected system-wide initiatives complemented by more tailored
initiatives to reform and modernize the delivery system, reinforce the reorientation of public
health activities, and eliminate the lingering stockpile of unusable but potentially hazardous
pharmaceutical materials donated during the war. The strands of this Project, along with other
reform strands including bridging activities being initiated under the on-going Health Project,
would gradually be woven together into a stronger fabric for the health system's management
and governance.
* The system-wide initiatives would address underlying constraints on improved health system
performance that derive from inadequacies in information systems, incentives, and provider
payment arrangements.
> One initiative would set technical standards for the future architecture of Croatia's health
information system; a second would develop pilot information systems, consistent with



18
those standards, that would give providers more powerful tools for managing care in cost-
effective ways; and a third would facilitate the more integrated use and management of
clinical, administrative and financial data currently collected by CIHI, NIPH and MOH.
> Another initiative would incorporate secondary diagnoses into the standardized patient
record data that soon will be reported centrally by primary health care providers and that
will need similarly to be developed for hospitals (beginning with the Koprivnica pilot).
>  Once available, data on secondary diagnoses would permit development of severity-of-
illness adjusters for case mix in Croatia. Those would then be used: (a) to analyze case-
mix patterns within and across facilities and primary health care practices; (b) to refine
preliminary methods for inventorying and categorizing facilities that are being developed
as a bridging activity under the on-going Health Project and that will later support both
rationalization plans and formal systems of accreditation for facilities; and (c) to develop
or refine not only options for prospective or case-mix-adjusted payment of facilities for
inpatient care for several common diagnoses but also options for case-mix-adjusted
payment of fund-holding group practices. Trials of those payment options within pilot
facilities or group practices would form part of the health care delivery system initiatives.
> Other initiatives would build on the Health Project's "bridging" activities, support
training for practice managers and others, develop a range of new policy options, and a
unit to coordinate these reform-related activities within MOH.
X Delivery system initiatives would seek to achieve more appropriate and effective care that
uses resources more efficiently and, in this way, responds to urgent concerns about the
sustainability of the present health system. Accordingly, two initiatives would focus on
pilots that develop and evaluate modified ways to organize the delivery of PHC (through
fund-holding group practices) and of hospital and other secondary care (through
differentiation of alternative levels of clinical care). A further initiative would respond to
the growing prominence of cardiovascular and other non-communicable diseases as sources
of morbidity and mortality by supporting a series of clinical and public health measures that
together constitute a multi-faceted, national heart disease program. The program elements
would include: strengthened health promotion; new protocols and guidelines for care that
emphasize enhanced case management at the PHC level, improved secondary prevention,
more effective management of patients newly arriving at hospitals for emergency cardiac
care, and guidelines for tertiary clinical care; modest improvements in emergency room
equipment in 20 hospitals; and investments in equipment for more sophisticated cardiac
diagnosis and related interventions at two hospital centers.
* Public health initiatives would support further the reorienting of public health activities from
communicable to non-communicable disease, would initiate new surveillance and survey
programs to monitor and document behavioral risk factors affecting health, would
institutionalize health promotion activities within NIPH and expand their scope to include an
advocacy function, and would comprise an integral part of the national heart disease
program.
* The pharmaceutical initiative would sort, consolidate and dispose of an estimated 2,700 tons
of expired or unusable pharmaceuticals and related materials that were donated during the
period of war and that are now stored in as many as 250 temporary and often insecure
locations around the country. The initiative would dispose, in environmentally acceptable
ways, of the major portion of the residual donated material, concentrating on about 25 of the



19
largest and/or highest priority sites. Similar material from smaller sites might first be
consolidated at the larger sites, provided the sorting and transportation of this material to the
larger sites could also be accomplished in an environmnentally acceptable way. Croatian law
mandates incineration of outdated pharmaceuticals; and an incinerator meeting European
Union and WHO standards for environmentally acceptable operation is located in Zagreb.
Material for incineration would be separated from other materials and would then be
transported to the Zagreb incinerator for destruction. Residual ash and sludge from the
incineration process would also be disposed of subsequently in the most technically and
enviromnentally appropriate way.
Separately, consideration was given to the option of an adaptable program loan (APL),
which would provide a series of loans to develop and implement the reforms over a fixed period
of time through a series of pre-agreed stages. Under this approach, the initial loan would
extensively pilot hospital restructuring and primary health care in multiple pilot sites. The
piloted reforms would then be expanded in the loan(s) that would follow. However, Bank staff
and country counterparts noted the Government's self-imposed borrowing constraint, its desire to
address quickly several pressing health goals, and its preference for a rolling reform strategy that
it could re-evaluate periodically. They concluded that a standard investment loan would be more
appropriate to the goals of the reform and would provide greater flexibility.
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                 Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Health Reform               First Health Project             S               S
Other development agencies
Council of Europe           Health-care Facilities
Reconstruction in Danube
Region
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
Experience with the on-going Health Project has demonstrated the significant capacities
of country counterparts and the potential effectiveness of using local consultants to support
policy development initiatives of the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute for Health
Insurance. This is particularly significant, given the piloting aspect of the second Project where
it will be critical to have experienced and capable staff on the ground conducting and evaluating
the reforms.
In addition, in the on-going Project, a Project Management Unit as such was not
established. The project management responsibilities were split between the Project



20
Implementation Officer and his assistant, on the one hand, and the Croatian Institute for Health
Insurance on the other.  This proved to be less than optimal as a project management
arrangement. Under the proposed Project, a Project Management Unit with full implementation
responsibilities, will be established.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower has successfully implemented the first health Project, demonstrating a high
level of commitment and ownership. The Borrower has produced numerous documents
envisioning expected reforns to be completed through the second Project, including "Croatia
2000: Project Health," an analysis of the Croatia health sector and a detailed plan of the reforms
the Government intends to undertake. In addition, the Government is administering a PHRD
grant under which they are executing preparation activities for the second health Project.
Discussions with the Office of the President, a panel of social sector Ministers during CAS
discussions, and with current and past Ministers of Health all revealed strong commitment to
focusing the second health Project on health system reform.
In his address to a joint session of both chambers of the Croatian National Parliament in
January 1999, the President of Croatia devoted a page of his speech to health care. In part, he
stated: "During the last year, in line with my initiative presented in my last year's State of the
Nation Address, the Ministry of Health embarked on a large-scale effort to reorganize the health-
care system, in cooperation with the World Bank and with the support of experts and public
figures independently of their party affiliation, in order to achieve a structure allowing for stable
fumding and general provision of basic health care.' (p.36) This was the speech's only reference
to the World Bank.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project:
Bank support has helped to articulate the issues, the strategic choices, and the principal
options and components of systemic reform. In addition to its valued contribution to the policy
dialogue (including its ability to relate international experience to Croatian circumstances), the
Bank's investment funds and its supervision role will help to facilitate a continued focus on the
main priorities during the reform process.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (For the complete economic analysis, see Annex 4):
Annex 4 presents an economic analysis of the Project's benefits and costs. There are,
however, limitations of such an analysis for the Health System Project and caveats that should be
recognized when interpreting the significance of the analytic results for decisions about the
merits of the Project.
Annex 4 analyzes the Project's direct economic benefits from induced reductions in input
costs for the health-care delivery system pilots. It also considers the indirect economic benefits
of the Project in the form of increased productivity that would result from shortened hospital
stays if, as a result, the people hospitalized worked during 20 percent of the days when they
would otherwise have been receiving inpatient hospital care. Almost all other Project benefits
remain unquantified. Based on consideration of the quantified benefits alone, the economic
analysis estimates a negative net present value (NPV) for the Project.



21
Annex 4 is valuable as an illustration of what can and cannot be achieved through a
careful attempt to undertake formal cost-benefit analysis of the proposed Project. It would be
inappropriate, however, to infer that the negative estimated NPV adequately reflects the full
economic benefits and costs of the Project. This is because many benefits, including possibly the
most important ones, are not quantified.
Considerations Omitted from Analysis
Perhaps the dominating value of this Project is that it will give the Government of Croatia
additional tools and thus additional options if and when-perhaps after the election required by
January 2000-it decides to proceed with a serious rationalization of the health sector and the
sector's associated expenditures. Total health expenditures reflect millions of decentralized
clinical decisions made during interactions between physicians and patients. The challenge for
policy makers is to design and manage health policies and a health-care system that can impose
an effective ceiling, at a level that the country wishes-and can afford-to sustain, on the total
health expenditures that result from those myriad decentralized clinical decisions. This is
technically very difficult to do and, to be successful, governments require technical tools that
increase their leverage over expenditures. Among these are such tools as fund-holding PHC
group practices, case-mix adjustments for provider payment, alternative levels of hospital and
secondary care, categorization of hospitals, standards and accreditation, clinical protocols,
rationalization plans, options for regulatory and policy regimes that could lead to more effective
use of pharmaceuticals or to alternative sources of health financing, and improved health
information systems. The Project will develop precisely these tools.
CIHI manages an overall budget equivalent to about $US 2 billion. If CIHI could
achieve (say) a two percent improvement in the efficiency of resource use within its health
sector-either through reductions in resource use, or through improvements in the effectiveness
with which those resources are used-it would imply a stream of economic benefits of the order
of $39 million per year in perpetuity. That would far outweigh the investment costs associated
with the Project.
The economics literature acknowledges that options, whether used or not, can have a
value. A key question for economic analysis in this Project is what value should implicitly be
placed on measures supported through the Project that would give the Government increased
options for controlling health expenditures effectively.
There is a further global consideration that is not captured in the quantitative economic
analysis in Annex 4. The economic analysis treats the counterfactual health system as the status
quo, scaled up proportionally from year to year. A strong case can be made, however, that the
Croatian health-care system is at a critical and unstable point where it must go forward with a
further round of reforms or begin to regress. It is highly likely that, in the absence of a serious
package of systemic reform measures, fiscal pressures will cause the current health-care system
to begin to unravel, becoming increasingly dysfunctional and ineffective, and subject to arbitrary
and at times politically driven decisions about how to cut short-term expenditures without regard
to their long-term consequences for the health system. To the extent that this is true, the
counterfactual results in an understatement of benefits.



22
The fornal economic analysis also disregards other real or potential Project benefits either
because there are no market prices or adequate proxies with which to measure them, or because
there is no satisfactory way to estimate their scale. (See Annex 4).
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= - US$1.459 million; ERR=   % [ ]Cost Effectiveness
Analysis:
[I Other (Specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 5): Not applicable
3. Technical: See Annex 4.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The executing agency for the Project is the MOH, in collaboration
with the CIHI and the NIPH. The institutional framework for the health sector includes central
government institutions (MOH, CIHI and NIPH), and their branch offices at the county and, in
some cases, municipal levels. The Project activities will be implemented through a framework
comprising all three levels. The Government has made a preliminary selection of sites for the
pilot program in Koprivnica for the cardiac diagnostic center investments in Zagreb
b. Project management: Within the above institutional framework, the PMU will be
established in the MOH, and will work closely with all agencies involved in Project delivery.
5. Social
A social assessment has been incorporated into the Project and will be carried out during
the first year of implementation. Given the pilot/reform aspects of the Project, the assessment
will specifically look at the Koprivnica region to achieve a knowledge base and set benchmarks
to track the effects of the health care reforms. Other regions around the country will also be
assessed for comparison purposes.
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category    []A  [X] B  [] C
The only major potential issue involves the pharmaceuticals subcomponent, which will
dispose of most drugs that have expired and/or are in other ways unusable (see Annex 8). Most
of these drugs were among materials donated to the country during the war in the early 1990s.
Procedures for disposal that meet Croatian and Bank requests are detailed in Annex 8. They
include four principal activities:
(i) Pharmaceutical waste would be separated from reusable medical supplies at 25 priority
sites (with the additional possibility that the Government could consolidate at these sites
outdated and unused pharmaceuticals now stored in smaller sites);
(ii)  The pharmaceutical waste from these 25 sites would then be transported in special-
purpose containers by vehicles to the hazardous waste incinerator in Zagreb;
(iii) All expired drugs and disposable consumables from these sites, and associated packaging
where appropriate, would be incinerated; and
(iv)  The resultant fly-ash (approximately 175-250 tons) would be disposed of using a plan that
will be agreed upon by the Government and the Bank, following further technical analysis
by Croatian authorities of the options available.



23
The component would rely significantly on Croatia's normal environmental regulatory
processes to ensure that these activities are conducted appropriately. MOH would coordinate
monitoring arrangements for the component, maintaining regular contact with other regulatory
agencies responsible for overseeing different aspects of the disposal process.
For the hospital rationalization component, safe water supply and sanitation and the
proper disposal of medical waste will be included.
7. Participatory approach:
To formulate its medium-term reform strategy, Croatia adopted an open process designed
to identify a reform program that could elicit the support of a popular and professional consensus
within the country. Accordingly, the Minister of Health created an overall council for the health
reform program with members drawn from the profession and from the major political parties.
The council is supplemented by ten working groups of health professionals, each of which has
addressed a major cluster of issues, and by a steering committee for the Health System Project.
A Cabinet subcommittee has also been established to address inter-sectoral concerns in the
health sector. For the hospital rationalization component, safe water supply and sanitation and
the proper disposal of medical waste will be included.
Beneficiaries and other affected groups: Beneficiaries include: general population of
Croatia, and specifically the pilot region of Koprivnica; medical professionals; Ministry of
Health, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, and National Institute of Public Health.



24
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.. Sustainability:
The following factors are critical for sustainability of Project benefits:
(i) Macroeconomic growth
(ii) Political stability
(iii) Government's willingness and capacity to infuse health system with increased fiscal
discipline.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Stakeholders' willingness to accept new    M        Involve stakeholders early on in the
models for reform.                                  process, and make the process as
participatory as possible.
Related economic reforms may not           M        Government is currently negotiating
continue.                                           adjustment support from the Bank,
which will be conditional on reaching
mutually agreeable reform actions.
Lack of political will in parliarnent and   M       MOH team is working with opposition
MOH                                                 parties to develop supportive
environment for reform.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to               Keep components of the Project
Outputs"                             simple. Ensure necessary training for
PMU staff.
Lack of capacity in MOH and PMU to          M       Keep health professionals involved in
coordinate complex reform process                  the process at every stage.
Health professionals do not support reform  M       Project Council includes members
process                                             from government and opposition
parties as well as other stakeholders to
develop supportive environment for
reform.
Election results precipitate sharp change in  M     Government informed early on of the
policy direction                                    full expenditures involved so they can
budget for these costs.
Government's inability to pay recurrent     M
costs for hospitals and cardio care
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



25
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
Heart Program Investments in Medical Equipment
Section B discussed optimizing the mix of services as a sectoral issue. It detailed MOH' s
commitment to a new national program for heart disease that will involve a broadly based,
coordinated set of initiatives at the primary, secondary and (to a limited degree) tertiary levels. In
Croatia, 52 percent of all deaths are attributed to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Although
focusing on prevention and treatment of CVD is a logical response to the changing burden of
disease in most European transition countries including Croatia, an important issue for these
countries is the optimum balance among primary, secondary and tertiary forms of prevention,
management and treatment of CVD.
In addition to supporting a broad spectrum of measures at the levels of primary and
secondary prevention and management of CVD, Croatia also proposes to invest through the
Health System Project in additional modem equipment for (a) hospital emergency rooms and (b)
tertiary forms of CVD diagnosis and associated interventions. The emergency room equipment
would be limited to an estimated $50,000 per hospital for 20 hospitals. The CVD diagnostic
equipment would include a new digital X-ray angiograpphy unit for cardiac catheterization, an
echocardiographic machine with transosophageal probe for surveillance of patients undergoing
such procedures. Moreover, MOH proposes that loan funds should also finance an initial supply
of expensive related consumables (e.g., single-use cardiac catheters for angiography) as an
investment item. MOH notes that coronary artery surgery, which would frequently be the
alternative to cardiac catheter interventions, is 3-5 times more expensive than cardiac catheter
interventions including balloon dilations of coronary arteries.  MOH therefore sees such
programs as a source of potential savings and/or improvements in the effectiveness of resource
use.
Two issues arise. One is whether further investments in sophisticated equipment with
high recurrent costs are affordable and sustainable in a health system like Croatia's that faces a
large and persistent financial deficit. As noted earlier, the fundamental problems underlying this
deficit can be characterized as the country's failure to change the unsustainably high cost
structure of health facilities and to reduce the yawning gap between public and professional
expectations of the health sector, on the one hand, and available national resources, on the other.
Investments that add new functionality to the system without replacing existing activities of
lower priority, and policies that budget too little for maintenance of the existing stock of
equipment, appear to have been part of the problem in the past. The financial sustainability of
programs involving use of this proposed new equipment, and other comparable equipment, will
depend partly on an increased willingness to engage in decision making that scales back
activities of lower priority. To address this issue, the Bank and MOH have agreed in principle
that MOH, CIHI and NIPH would undertake a series of initiatives to enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of cardiovascular care, particularly in the areas of secondary and tertiary services.
The Government proposed to the Bank, prior to negotiations, identifiable and monitorable
measures that the Government will adopt to offset associated incremental recurrent costs in this
area to an increasing degree as the Project is implemented. The measures are designed to release
sufficient resources to assure the future financial sustainability of the cardiac diagnostic
equipment that the Project will finance.



26
The other issue is whether these funds might be used with greater effect on
cardiovascular health outcomes if some or all of these project funds were directed instead to
further expansion of related public health and secondary prevention activities.  Annex 4
dliscusses related issues. MOH recognizes that Croatia's high mortality rates can be reduced in
two principal ways, of which the more effective method is primary prevention. Through the first
Hlealth Project and in other ways, MOH has begun to develop long-term health promotion
programs to reduce the risk factors leading to CVD and cerebro-vascular diseases through
promotion of healthier lifestyles (non-smoking, balanced diet, regular control of blood pressure,
cholesterol and blood sugar, regular physical activity, etc.). The expected outcome is reductions
in morbidity and consequently reduced mortality from these causes, with significant
improvement expected after some ten years of continuous effort. The Health System Project will
continue to support and expand these activities. MOH believes as well, however, that it must
also utilize a second method for reducing death rates from CVD and cerebro-vascular insult,
namely, secondary prevention and acute prevention. The aim is to reduce the lethality rate among
those patients who already suffer from these diseases. This method does not reduce the
morbidity rate, but gives evident results in reducing the lethality rate of cardio-vascular and
cerebro-vascular disease within a few years. MOH intends the Health System Project to support
improvements in this facet of its overall program to target CVD.
Disposal of Stockpile of Unusable Pharmaceutical Materials
Two aspects of this issue could prove controversial: the priority and economic value of
thiis activity; and the most appropriate mode of disposal.
Component 3, Pharmaceuticals, is intended to eliminate potential hazards to people and
the environment by disposing of about 2,700 tons of pharmaceutical products, packaging and
waste materials. These materials are the residue from a much larger flow of donations by a
variety of donors. The pharmaceutical products are now either outdated or unusable for other
reasons. The stockpile is left over from the previous round of war and is stored in approximately
2:50 locations, most of which are reported to be unsatisfactory or inappropriate for the purpose.
The Minister of Health is committed to disposing of the stockpile, safely and appropriately, and
has recently requested that Project funds be used for this purpose as no other funds are available.
A paper prepared by the Croatian Institute of Toxicology proposed sorting drugs from packaging
and other waste, consolidating drugs in a few locations, and subsequent incineration or other
suitable disposal of the residual ash, either in Croatia or overseas. For a more detailed discussion
of these issues, see Annex 8.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
*  Put in place an adequate financial management system for the Project, consistent with agreed
steps under the Financial Management Action Plan
*  Establish a Project Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank
*  Select and appoint auditors acceptable to the Bank.



27
2. Conditions of Disbursement (for Component 3 only):
* Submit to the Bank a list of up to 25 sites, selected in accordance with criteria agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank, from which the pharmaceutical waste will be collected
and disposed.
*  Develop a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for transportation of the pharmaceutical waste under
Part C of the Project, including proposals for the containers to be used for these purposes.
* Develop a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the final disposal of toxic fly-ash produced in
the process of incineration of pharmaceutical waste.
* Dispose of all toxic fly ash that has been stored at PUTO on or before the Loan Agreement
signing date.
* Develop an expenditures structure, satisfactory to the Bank, for pharmaceutical waste
incineration and ash disposal under Part C of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of Project implementation. [XI Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of Project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:. The Project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Verdon S. Staines, Team Leader for Croatia
Chris Lovelace, ECSHD Director
u HACr..y                   c    r      a      o
Xmrud Hartmann, Country Director for Albariia and Croatia



28
ANNEX 1
Croatia Health System Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary     Performance Indicators                          Monitoring and Supervision     Assumptions/Risks
Sector-Related CAS                                                    Data from new systems to       Government continues
Goal:                                                                 monitor behavioral trends      commitment to reform program.
Support the transition to  Risk factors for cardiovascular disease improve  affecting health risks.
an effective but
affordable health     CIHI's structural deficit reduced.              CIHI's accounting systems.
system that is
financially sustainable   Health expenditures as share of GDP stabilize below   National accounts.
and consistent with a    peak historical level.
smaller government
sector within the
economy.
Project Objective:
Enhance Croatia's     Preparation of a strategic plan for next stage of  Presentation of completed MOH    Government and World Bank
capacity to achieve a    restructuring and development of Croatia's health    report to Government and to  maintain commitment and
more effective,       system, (including implementation of pilot activities  World Bank.             Government commits adequate
efficient, and        on a broader basis as well as processes for planning                           counterpart funds to project
financially sustainable  facility and program rationalization) and                                  implementation
health system in the  consideration of plan by Croatian decision makers.
medium term



29
Outputs: (Deliverables)
Better structures to aid   Creation of monitoring systems to track secular   Project progress reports.         Government continues:
regulation, governance   changes in relevant behavior that affects health risks,                                *  To promote realistic public
and operation of health   and of a unit responsible for all health promotion  Project supervision missions.        and professional expectations
sector for more          activities.                                                                               of health system, including
clinically appropriate                                                                                             through restructured financial
care that uses resources  Increased institutional capacity for health system                                       incentives within system;
more effectively.        management, including through development of:                                          +  To pursue actively the
*  Inventory of health facilities and categorization                                      rationalization of current and
system;                                                                                planned programs and
*  Process for planning facility and service                                              facilities;
rationalization;                                                                   +  To address implications for
*  Accreditation system for facilities and initial                                        level and mix of human
guidelines for providers;                                                              resources required.
*  Clinical and pharmaceutical protocols for
selected conditions and training for providers in
their use;                                                                         Croatia will adopt and implement
*  Accreditation system for facilities and initial                                    plan for next stage of health
guidelines for providers;                                                          reform process, including
*  Department of Financing, Planning and Quality                                      committing an adequate share of
Assurance in MOH;                                                                  its total resources to the health
*  Health outcome and process indicators;                                             sector.
*  Standards for national health information system;
*  Training system for practice managers;                                              Reform process retains
*  Simulation models for sectoral revenue and                                         professional and public support.
expenditure projections.
Model for PHC that       Evaluated fund-holding PHC group practices wth
offers more              modified payment arrangements and improved          Bank review of financial
coordinated patient care  incentives for more coordinated care.              mechanisms
& better resource use.                                                       Project progress reports.



30
Model for more         Evaluated hospital pilots for day surgery, day  PMU monitoring reports of pilot   Pilot hospital maintains
clinically appropriate    hospital, hospice, home care, and outsourcing of  activities.                commitment to project and reform.
hospital care that uses    hotel functions, with new payment arrangements and
resources more        improved incentives for effective resource use.
effectively.
Improved system for    Establishment of cardiac care demonstration program  Disbursement reports       Commitment of health sectors.
cardiac care           emphasizing primary and secondary prevention plus
more effective acute care;                      Health Sector studies submitted to
Bank.
Development of sub-    Completion of studies of:
sectoral analyses and  *  Scope and structure of insurance arrangements;
new policy options.    *  Participation payments (coinsurance);
*  Alternative revenue sources;
*  Provider payment arrangements;
*  Pharmaceutical market composition &
functioning, drug lists & formularies, alternative
approaches to drug pricing & financing, and links
to new provider payment systems.



31
Activities:
1. Integrated Delivery   *  Group practices established in pilot sites;   *  Periodic reports from PMU;   Policy initiatives to deal with
System Improvements   *  Alternate levels of care (day surgery, day       *  Regular supervision missions;  immediate health financing crisis
.A. K .privnica Pilots  hospital, respite, hospice, home care services)  *  Mid-term review of project    and broader fiscal concerns will
IA. Koprivnica Pilots      established at inpatient pilot sites;                                           not impede medium-term reform
*  New payment methods, which imply improved                                       initiatives and investments.
incentives for effective use of resources,
designed and implemented for outpatient and                                     NIPH, and cooperation between
inpatient care in pilot sites;                                                 them and pilot facilities and group
*  Pilot health information system developed that                                  practices.
utilizes an open-architecture design, that
synthesizes clinical, administrative, and financial                             Must gain and retain support of
data at patient level, provider level and payer                                 health professionals, as health
level, and that includes patient-level hospital data                            system reform is a 10-15 year
on secondary diagnoses;                                                         process.
*  Practice managers trained and hired;
*  Quality Assurance system developed and                                          Following 1999 election,
implemented.                                                                    prerequisites for medium-term
reform will be assessed similarly
IB. Heart Disease      *  Clinical guidelines, from general practice to   Disbursement reports submitted    and short-term priorities will
Program                    cardiac care;                                  to Bank                          remain consistent with project
*  Appropriateness indicators for cardiovascular                                   investments.
(CVD) interventions (drug treatment regimens,
angioplasty, coronary bypass);
*  Management of waiting lists for high-end CVD                                    Government will pay recurrent
surgical care by operating center and nationwide.  Project supervision missions  costs necessary to sustain new
*  External peer review processes for CVD                                          equipment for hospitals and cardio
interventions by specialty by CIHI;                                             care.
* Number of Croatians receiving CVD surgery
outside Croatia;                                                                Commitment to reform program
*  Consumer information available on disease                                       continues
prevention and treatment compliance;



32
* Effective GP training on CVD management at
PHC level;
* Health promotion campaign elements addressing
CVD prevention;
* Development of cardiac treatment protocols;
* MD training in emergency CVD management
and use of protocols;
*  Monitoring of practice patterns relative to
protocols;
*  Use of both new and existing coronary
angioplasty equipment at high capacity;
*  Clinical guidelines developed for access to
tertiary coronary interventions;
*  Improvements to emergency medical
communications system extended nationwide.
2. Public Health
2A. Monitoring,       *  Creation of monitoring systems to track      Project progress reports.
analysis, and evaluation  secular changes in relevant behavior that
affects health risks.
*  Comprehensive, population-based data on
health status.
Health promotion strategies and
2b. Health Promotion    *  Creation of unit in NIPH for health promotion  other activity.
strategy development and training and activities;
*  Comprehensive, population-based data on health
status.



33
Periodic inspections of progress    All activities are effectively
3. Pharmaceutical      Disposal of pharmaceutical waste from agreed sites   by independent agency.        carried out and follow
Disposal of unusable    in an environmentally safe manner that conforms                                   environmental best practice.
pharmaceutical         with regulatory requirements and procedures agreed
materials donated      on for this loan.
during period of war.
4. System Initiatives  Development of:                                   Information Systems in place.    Implementation capacity is
*  Inventory of health facilities and categorization                              adequate.
system;
*  Process for planning facility and service                                      Government maintains strong
rationalization;                              New protocols developed.         support and commitment.
* Clinical and pharmaceutical protocols for
selected conditions and training for providers in
their use;
* Accreditation system for facilities and initial
guidelines for providers.
* Health outcome and process indicators;
* Standards for national health information system;
* Training system for practice managers;
* Simulation models for sectoral revenue and
expenditure projections
* Establish Department of Financing, Planning and
Quality Assurance in MOH;
* Capacity building for financial analysis.
* Completion of studies listed under "deliverables"
section above.
5. Project Management                                                    Project implements smoothly.     World Bank maintains strong
*      Establishment of ProjectionManagement Unit    Regular progress and disburse-  commitment to project supervision
(PMU)                                         ment reports submitted to Bank..  and support.



34
ANNEX 2
Croatia Health System Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1: Health Services Delivery - US$26.4 million (total cost)
The Health Services Delivery Component (Component 1) will include two sub-
components for: (A) primary health-care development, and (B) hospitals and secondary services.
A. The primary health-care (PHC) sub-component will develop pilots in Koprivnica for one
or more group practices. This will include the financing of medical equipment, furniture and
other necessary start-up expenses, as well as training and skills upgrading for staff. The
practices will be reimbursed under modified capitation arrangements that incorporate fund-
holding elements. They will initially extend the scope of capitation to cover laboratory and
diagnostic services, prescription drugs, and outpatient specialist referrals, with incentives for
physicians to provide ambulatory management of more complex cases involving secondary
prevention. For a large group practice, the modified capitation arrangements will later be
extended to cover the costs of inpatient hospital care within certain categories and/or subject to
limits. Following an evaluation of the pilots, plans will be developed and implemented to begin
a national extension of lessons and approaches derived from successful pilots.
B. The sub-component for hospitals and secondary services will encompass three distinct but
coordinated activities.
i) First is the implementation of a strategy for the restructuring and rationalization of the
acute hospital care and complementary care services in the Koprivnica hospital. The
realignment would demonstrate how the process of achieving more clinically appropriate
and effective use of hospital resources could begin. Specific steps would include:
*  Reconfiguration of emergency services,
*  Upgrading of facilities, including emergency services, as needed,
*  Differentiating more carefully the levels of inpatient care that patients require,
* Matching these more appropriately with new arrangements that offer alternative
levels of care,
*  Supporting the changes with both appropriate technology and the development of
new approaches to hospital payment (for example, that bundle elements of the current
payment formula and thereby restructure incentives), and
*  Reducing the emphasis on long inpatient stays.
ii)  Second, in Koprivnica hospital and the surrounding area, a package of demonstration
programs for alternative levels of care would be piloted. These would include: day surgery,
hospice, respite, home and ambulatory care. Appropriate renovation, refurbishing, equipment,
arid training would also be financed. In addition, a set of drug-use protocols would be developed
and piloted.



35
iii) Third, a national health-care demonstration program for heart disease would be
developed. This would include equipping twenty county emergency rooms with
resuscitation/monitoring equipment units for the management of acute episodes requiring
coronary care., and would also equip two cardiac diagnostic centers in Zagreb to provide
sophisticated secondary prevention services. In addition, building on activities begun
under the first health Project, telecommunication equipment for emergency services
would be financed. The heart program would be further supported by activities under
Component 2 (below) and by the completion of improvements within the system of
emergency medical services proposed above.
Project Component 2: Public Health - US$1.5million (total cost)
The Public Health Component will have two sub-components comprising a series of initiatives
which continue and build upon activities begun under the first health Project.
A. Health monitoring and program evaluation.
. A regular behavioral surveillance system will be established, with household surveys
conducted every two to three years to track secular changes and assess health risks.
. A comprehensive population-base health survey including biochemical and physiologic
measurements will occur every four to five years in order to assess progress in improving
health outcomes by national programs.
* Annual reports on data collected for noncommunicable diseases (NCD), health risk behavior,
and other related issues will be developed. These reports will be used for planning purposes.
3 Intersectoral seminars will be conducted yearly to report data, plan interventions, and
evaluate programs.
B. National Health Promotion
* Support to the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH) for a unit specializing in health
promotion activities. This unit will lead national efforts in health promotion, building on
activities in the first Project, and will help to coordinate efforts in conjunction with the
system-wide initiatives in Component 4. It will also coordinate heart disease prevention
efforts in conjunction with the heart program in the first component.
* National health planning and strategy development.
* Health promotion training, formalized at the School of Public Health, University of Zagreb
School of Medicine.
* Physician, local health department, and other providers will be trained in health promotion,
with particular emphasis on CVD standards, protocols, and clinical prevention activities.



36
* A strong media advocacy campaign will be developed and implemented as a tool of the
Health Promotion unit, focusing on CVD risk factor reduction. The media advocacy
campaign will be thoroughly evaluated as it is in progress and at the end of the Project.
Project Component 3: Pharmaceutical Waste Disposal - US$3.8 million (total cost)
Unusable or outdated pharmaceutical materials, donated during the period of war and which now
represent a hazard to segments of the population and the environment, would be disposed of
using methods consistent with international environmental best practices and acceptable to the
World Bank. Of the over 250 sites around the country, up to 25 sites which represent the largest
and/or most urgent problems would be selected for disposal. Where possible, pharmaceuticals
from other sites would be transported to these 25 for consolidated disposal.
Piroject Component 4: System-Wide Initiatives - US$6.9 million (total cost)
*The System-wide Initiatives will strengthen systems in ways that support the first three
components and that also provide essential building blocks for regulatory, governance and
management initiatives within this component.
A., Support will be provided for new management information systems in the Koprivnica
hospital and county that integrate clinical, administrative, and financial information. These
will give providers, including those in the pilots, more powerful tools that they need for
managing care in cost-effective ways.
B. A new system will be developed for hospitals to collect patient-level data (including
secondary diagnoses, which are needed for severity-of-illness indicators and case-mix
adjustors). The new system will parallel a similar system for PHC providers that is
scheduled for piloting. A national inventory of all hospital facilities will also be established.
Together, these will make possible an initial categorization of facilities using data from the
inventory of facilities together with preliminary comparisons across facilities of patients'
severity-of-illness.
C. Current databases and the proposed new patient-level collections will be used to construct
measures of health outcomes and to analyze their implications.
D. Clinical protocols that incorporate pharmaceutical protocols will be adopted or developed,
beginning with those for the diagnoses that are most common or that generate most costs.
E. The four preceding activities will support the development of formal standards for facilities
and guidelines for care. These, in turn, will make possible a new process for formally
accrediting facilities and providers.
F. To manage and take responsibility for these activities as well as to provide related advice to
policy makers, a new Department for Financing, Planning, and Quality Assurance will be
established within the MOH.



37
G. Capacity building will include the development of inter-related simulation models for health
revenues and expenditures. These will enable not only financial projections but also
evaluation of the impact of various policy options within the sector.
H. Training of practice managers will create a new cadre of experts to provide administrative
and managerial support for PHC groups. In addition, to build institutional capacity for the
analysis of health financing, policy and management, support would be provided for short-
term training, a center for training and dissemination, international institutional partnerships,
and scholarships for study abroad.
I. Studies will examine: revenue issues such as the structure of participation payments
(coinsurance), the potential revenue from alternative tax bases (including a dedicated tobacco
tax), ways to increase the collections rate for insurance contributions; and alternative
approaches to drug pricing and financing, and their links to new provider payment systems.
Project Component 5: Project Management - US$1.3 million (total cost)
The Project Management Component, through the establishment of the Project Management Unit
(PMU), will be responsible for: implementing the Project; monitoring progress of the four
primary components; ensuring the proper sequencing of studies, pilots and expansion activities;
and maintaining all required records and management systems. The core staff will comprise: a
PMU Director, Program Director, Technical Specialist (to support Program Director), Financial
Officer, Procurement Officer, and Administrative Assistant. Additional support will be provided
for short-term support to working group coordination and procurement.



38
ANNEX 3
Croatia Health System Project
Estimated Project Costs
Croatia
Health System Project                                                                 %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project                               (USs 000)                Foreign    Base
Cost Summary
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchang   Costs
e
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                  2,630.8       975.5     3,606.3        27       10
B. Goods and Equipment
1. Medical Equipment                          1,760.0     8,000.1     9,760.1       82       27
2. IT System Development                      1,119.8     5,090.0     6,209.8       82        17
3. Pharm Waste Disposal                       1,013.4     2,469.8     3,483.1       71        10
4. Other Goods                                  268.0     1,218.0     1,486.0       82         4
Subtotal Goods and Equipment                    4,161.1    16,777.9    20,939.0        80       58
C. Technical Assistance
1. External TA                                      -     2,936.8     2,936.8      100        8
2. Local TA                                   3,372.3           -     3,372.3         -       9
Subtotal Technical Assistance                   3,372.3     2,936.8     6,309.0        47       17
D. Training
1. External Training                                -       948.4       948.4      100        3
2. Local Training                               994.2           -       994.2         -        3
Subtotal Training                                 994.2       948.4     1,942.6        49        5
Total Investment Costs                           11,158.4    21,638.5    32,796.9        66       91
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff Salaries                     352.0           -       352.0         -        1
B. Equipment O&M                                2,322.1       749.1     3,071.2       24         8
Total Recurrent Costs                             2,674.1       749.1     3,423.2        22        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                              13,832.6    22,387.6    36,220.1       62      100
Physical Contingencies                            945.8     1,997.6     2,943.4        68        8
Price Contingencies                               117.8       602.1       719.9        84        2
Total PROJECT COSTS                               14,896.2    24,987.2    39,883.4       63      110



39
Croatia
Health Systems
Expenditure Accounts by                                                                                     Local
Financiers
(US$ '000)                                   The Government        IBRD                Total                (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %     For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      1,198.9    30.0    2,797.5    70.0    3,996.4    10.0       1,096.9    2,178.6     720.9
B. Goods and Equipment
1. Medical Equipment              3,147.4    28.4    7,947.3    71.6    11,094.6    27.8      9,093.9         -    2,000.7
2. IT System Development          1,258.3    18.0    5,719.5    82.0    6,977.8    17.5       5,719.5         -    1,258.3
3. Pharm Waste Disposal             690.2    18.0    3,137.5    82.0    3,827.7       9.6     2,733.0     404.5      690.2
4. Other Goods                      301.9    18.0    1,372.3    82.0    1,674.2       4.2     1,372.3         -      301.9
Subtotal Goods and Equipment        5,397.8    22.9    18,176.5    77.1   23,574.3    59.1    18,918.7      404.5    4,251.1
C. Technical Assistance
1. External TA                          -       -     3,132.7   100.0    3,132.7      7.9     3,132.7         -         -
2. Local TA                         664.4    19.0    2,834.2    81.0    3,498.6       8.8          -    3,020.0      478.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance         664.4    10.0    5,966.9    90.0    6,631.3    16.6       3,132.7    3,020.0     478.6
D. Training
1. External Training                    -       -     1,016.1   100.0    1,016.1      2.5     1,016.1         -          -
2. Local Training                               -     1,043.9   100.0    1,043.9      2.6          -    1,043.9
Subtotal Training                         -       -     2,060.0   100.0    2,060.0      5.2     1,016.1    1,043.9         -
Total Investment Costs                7,261.1    20.0   29,000.9    80.0   36,262.1    90.9    24,164.4    6,647.0    5,450.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff Salaries         352.0   100.0           -       -       352.0     0.9           -     352.0          -
B. Equipment O&M                    3,269.4   100.0          -        -     3,269.4     8.2      822.8    1,835.2      611.3
Total RecurrentCosts                  3,621.4   100.0          -        -     3,621.4     9.1      822.8    2,187.2      611.3
Total Disbursement                    10,882.5    27.3   29,000.9    72.7   39,883.4   100.0    24,987.2    8,834.3    6,062.0



40
Table 1. Integrated Health
Services - Community Health
Plan
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                           Quantitie   Unit                         Totals Including
s                                     Contingencies
Unit     Total    Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Community Health Plan
1. External TA                        mo            2       15     31.8        -        -        -    31.8
2. Local TA                           mo            4        2      10.2       -        -        -     10.2
Subtotal Community Health Plan                                          42.0        -        -        -    42.0
B. Social Assessment
1. External TA /a                     mo.          0.5      15      7.9        -                 -      7.9
2. Local TA /b                        Is                           25.6        -        -        -    25.6
3. Local Survey Firm /c               Is                           41.0        -        -        -    41.0
4. Workshop /d                        Is                            8.6        -        -        -      8.6
Subtotal Social Assessment                                              83.2        -        -        -    83.2
Total                                                                     125.2        -        -       -    125.2
\a Sociologist with survey experience.
\b Sociologistst. Data tabulator/analyst.
\c National survey, oversampling pilot site. focus groups to assess results.
\d Workshop on results



41
Table 2. Primary Care Pilot
Program - Koprivnica
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                              Quantities   Unit                          Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit      Total     Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Pilot site rehabilitation
1. Group practices /a                    Is                           471.2   474.2         -        -      945.4
B. Group Practice Medical Equipment /b        Is                           175.8   179.1         -        -      354.9
C. Furniture /c                               Is                            33.9    34.5    35.2          -      103.5
D. Technical Assistance
1. Develop/Implem. Group Practice Model  mo             1       15     15.9        -        -        -       15.9
/d
2. MD Project Coordinator                Is                             19.2    19.2        -        -       38.4
3. GP Skills Upgrading /e                mo              1      15      7.9      8.1        -        -       16.1
4. GP Skills Upgrading: Training Af    course           20       4     42.4    43.2                  -       85.6
5. Project review/evaluation             mo              1      15        -    16.2         -        -       16.2
6. Data collection/site coordination /g  Is                             16.0    16.0        -        -       32.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                              101.5   102.7         -        -      204.2
E. Training
1. Project data collection /h            Is                            22.1        -        -        -       22.1
F. Public Information
1. Technical Assistance /i               Is                            26.5    27.0         -        -       53.5
Total Investment Costs                                                       830.9   817.6    35.2          -    1,683.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Med. Equipment O&M                         Is                             20.5    41.2    41.5    41.7        144.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                         20.5    41.2    41.5    41.7         144.9
Total                                                                         851.4   858.8    76.6    41.7    1,828.5
\a Assume one large group practice and two small group practices ($500T for large, and $1 OOT for each small).
\b Assume 3 group practices in pilot area. UC/GP=$86,500.
\c For the three GP pilot sites.
\d 2 visits for 1/2 month each. 2nd visit 6 months later.
\e To increase scope of services offered, e.g., cardiac management, women's and sexual help, minor surgery.
f 20 GPs for 2 week courses in Western Europe.
\g 1 FTE
\h Project data collection. Two staff trained at each site.
\i Planning/managing PR campaign for PHC-project. includes production of written materials for patients and community, public information
sessions, etc.



42
Table 3. Primary Care Pilot -
Koprivnica (Financing)
Detailed Costs
(US$'000)                                         Quantities   Unit                         Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit      Total     Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Establish Training Centers
1. Information Ctr. Office Equipment /a    Is                      61.0       -        -        -    61.0
2. Teaching Materials /b            Is                             27.1       -        -        -    27.1
Subtotal Establish Training Centers                                    88.1       -        -        -    88.1
B. Pilot TA
1. ExternalTA/c                     mo             13      15    206.7        -        -        -   206.7
2. Local TA                         mo             50       2    128.1        -        -        -   128.1
Subtotal Pilot TA                                                     334.8        -       -        -   334.8
C. External Training
1. Study Tour I /d                course           10      6.2    65.7        -        -              65.7
2. Study Tour 2 le                course           10      6.2    65.7        -        -        -    65.7
3. Study Tour 3 /f                course           10      6.2    65.7        -        -        -    65.7
Subtotal External Training                                            197.2        -       -        -   197.2
D. Local Training
1. Training Workshops /g
External TA                       mo              1      15      15.9       -        -        -    15.9
Local TA                          Is              1       2       2.1       -        -        -      2.1
Materials and Manuals             Is                              2.1       -        -        -      2.1
Subtotal Training Workshops                                        20.1       -        -        -    20.1
E. GP Practice
1. Technical Assistance
TA - Outpatient Services          mo              1       15     15.9       -        -        -    15.9
TA - Inpatient Services           mo              1       15     15.9       -        -        -    15.9
Accountant                        mo           0.75       12      9.5       -        -        -      9.5
Contract Specialist               mo           0.75       5       4.0       -        -        -      4.0
TA- Facilities Mgt.               mo              1      15      15.9       -        -        -    15.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                      61.2       -        -        -    61.2
2. Training
Training Workshops /h           course            6       2      12.6       -        -        -    12.6
External Study Tour /i          course            8      5.8    49.2        -        -        -    49.2
Subtotal Training                                                  61.8       -        -        -    61.8
Subtotal GP Practice                                                  123.0       -        -        -   123.0
F. Refinement of Payment Systems
1. External TA                      mo              3      15        -    48.6         -        -    48.6



43
2. Local TA                         mo              3        2        -     7.7        -        -      7.7
Subtotal Refinement of Payment                                            -    56.3        -        -    56.3
Systems
G. Partial Fundholding Pay. Systems
1. External TA                      mo            0.5      15        -      8.1        -        -      8.1
2. Local TA                         mo            0.5        2        -      1.3       -        -      1.3
Subtotal Partial Fundholding Pay.                                         -     9.4        -        -      9.4
Systems
H. Mid-Term Pilot Review and
Evaluation
1. Extemal TA/j                     mo           2.75      15     43.7        -        -        -    43.7
2. Local TA /k                      mo           2.75        2      7.0       -        -        -      7.0
3. Findings, Results Workshop /l    Is                                -       -    15.8         -    15.8
Subtotal Mid-Term Pilot Review and                                     50.8       -    15.8         -    66.5
Evaluation
Total                                                                   813.9    65.7    15.8          -   895.3
\a Information Center for pilot area.
\b for pilot area.
\c 13 months for 7 consultants
\d 10 economists/fin.experts/physicians to UK for 3 weeks to see PHC models. 6 from the pilot area, and 4 from Zagreb leadership.
\e 10 economists/fin. experts/physicians to UK, Netherlands or US for 3 weeks to look at in-patient payment systems. 6 from pilot area
and 4 from Zagreb leadership.
\f 10 physicians/managers for 3 weeks to Sweden/Denmark to see regional planning and delivery systems. 6 from pilot area and 4 from
Zagreb leadership.
\g 6 workshops at $2000/workshop.
\h Payment methods and systems, financial mgt. and econ. analysis, cost accounting, mgt. accounting, personnel mgt., data for
decision-making. 4-5 day workshops.
Xi 1 week to UK to look at management of PHC groups for 8 practice managers.
y four consultants: economist, physician, facilities manager, statistician
\k economist, physician, facilities manager, statistician
\1 Zagreb. 3 day workshop. 100 participants



44
Table 4. Hospital Relignment
Koprivnica Pilot
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                       Quantitie   Unit                            Totals Including
s                                       Contingencies
Unit     Total    Cost    2000      2001      2002    2003      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Site assessment (a                   mo            3       15    47.7          -        -        -      47
B. Facility Upgrade
1. Basic Facility Services lb       Is                          372.9     375.3        -        -     748.2
2. Emergency Room Rehabilitation /c  Is                         235.6     271.0        -        -     506.6
Subtotal Facility Upgrade                                           608.5     646.2        -        -    1,254.7
C. Equipment and Furniture
1. Furniture /d                     Is                           33.9         -        -       -       33.9
2. Media Equipment                  Is                           10.8         -        -        -       10.8
3. Food storage, prep units, washers  Is                            -     276.1        -              276.1
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture                                     44.7     276.1        -        -     320.8
D. Technical Assistance
1. Service Profile le               mo         0.25       15      4.0         -        -        -       4.0
2. Alternative Care: Policy Framework /f   mo     1       15     15.9         -        -                15.9
3. Hospital Systems Re-engineering  mo          2.5       15    23.8        8.1      4.1      4.2      40.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                        43.7       8.1      4.1      4.2      60.2
E. Training
1. Methodology, contracts, std. dev. /g  mo       5       15    79.5          -        -        -      79.5
2. Hospital Mgr./admin. course design  mo         4       15        -      64.8        -        -      64.8
3. Contracts, redesign, facilities mgt.  Is                      63.6     324.0        -        -     387.6
4. Hospt, mgt. MBA /h               Is                              -      108.0       -        -     108.0
5. National Workshops li            Is                           63.0         -        -        -      63.0
Subtotal Training                                                   206.1     496.9        -              702.9
F. PR Campaign
1. Local TA                         Is                              -      32.0        -        -      32.0
2. Materials and Documentation      Is                              -      34.5        -        -      34.5
Subtotal PR Campaign                                                    -      66.5        -        -      66.5
Total Investment Costs                                                950.7    1,493.8     4.1     4.2    2,452.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment O&M                        Is                           13.8      29.8    30.0    30.1       103.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                                  13.8      29.8    30.0    30.1       103.7
Total                                                                 964.6    1,523,6    34.1    34.4    2,556.6
\a Hospital mgt., medical equipment, and architect specialists for 1 month to assess Koprivnica pilot site needs.



45
\b Basic facility services - kitchen, washrooms, etc.
Xc Reconfiguration of emergency services in Koprivnica Hospital.
Xd 6 desks/stns., chairs, file cabinets, etc.
Xe Report on case mix, patient acuity, throughput, staff skills mix, resource requirements.
\f Develop framework/funding alternatives to support alternative care and treatment options.
Xg review methodology, contracts and negotiations, std. dev. methodology, facility redesign/development.
Xh hospt. mgt. training weekend MBA for sr. managers 50/class. 2 classes/yr. in conjunction with univ. faculty.
Xi contracting/hotel service stds/ facility assessments/redesign. 2 each.



46
Table 5. Hospital Day Surgery -
Koprivnica Pilot
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                            Quantities   Unit                            Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit      Total    Cost    2000       2001      2002    2003       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Site Preparation /a                      Is                                -     169.4        -        -      169.4
B. Day Surgery Design/Plan /b               mo             2       15     31.8          -                         31.8
C. Medical Equipment
1. Stretchers/beds /c                  unit          12       10        -      165.7        -               165.7
2. Pre/post Operation Room             unit           9       27        -      335.5        -        -      335.5
3. Monitors                            unit          12        5        -       82.8        -        -       82.8
4. OR Equipment                        unit           3      275        -    1,138.9        -        -    1,138.9
Subtotal Medical Equipment                                                   -    1,722.9        -        -    1,722.9
D. Furniture/d                              Is                            74.5       75.9        -        -      150.4
E. Technical Assistance
1. Project/data set design /e         mo.             3       15     47.7          -        -        -      47.7
2. Dev. of local protocols /f          mo            18        2     15.4       30.7        -        -       46.1
3. Dev. of nursing protocols           mo.           14        2     15.4       20.5        -        -       35.9
4. Data collection/tech. writer         Is                           12.8       25.6        -        -       38.4
5. Programmer                          Is                            19.2       19.2        -        -       38.4
6 MD leader/coordinator                Is                               -       64.1        -        -       64.1
7. Guidelines                          Is                               -       32.0        -        -       32.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                            110.5      192.2        -        -      302.6
F. Training
1. Nursing trainer                     mo             2       15     31.8          -        -        -       31.8
2. CQI/guidelines dev. trainer         mo             2       15        -       32.4        -        -       32.4
3. PAR training/data collection        Is                            19.2          -        -        -       19.2
4. Local CQI/guidelines dev. staff training  Is                         -       12.8        -        -       12.8
5. Workshops for Hosp. staff            Is                           21.0       21.0        -        -       42.0
Subtotal Training                                                         72.0       66.2        -        -      138.2
G. PR Campaign
1. Technical Assistance                Is                            15.9       10.8        -        -       26.7
2. Documents and Materials             Is                            20.3       13.8        -        -       34.1
Subtotal PR Campaign                                                      36.2       24.6        -        -       60.8
Total Investment Costs                                                     325.0    2,251.1        -        -    2,576.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment O&M                     Is                              -      162.6   163.5   164.5        490.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                          -      162.6   163.5   164.5        490.6
Total                                                                       325.0    2,413.7   163.5   164.5    3,066.7



47
\a Reconfigure space for day surgery services.
\b 1 month architect; 1 month hosp, manager.
\c 12 stretchers/beds @ UC$10.
\d new chairs for waiting area, lockers, conf. table, desks.
\e project/data set design, protocol dev., site design, pt. education program dev., patient selection and care guidelines.
\f dev. of local protocols (MDs).



48
Table 6. Hospital Community CarA
- Koprivnica Pilot
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                                 Quantities   Unit                             Totals Including
__________                         ~~~~~~~Contingencies
Unit      Total     Cost    2000       2001      2002    2003       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Site Renovation
1. Hospice                                   Is                            134.6      541.9        -        -      676.6
2. Respite Care                              Is                                -      169.4        -        -      169.4
3. Home Care /a                              Is                                -      311.6        -        -      311.6
4. Ambulatory Care                           Is                                -      169.4        -        -      169.4
Subtotal Site Renovation                                                       134.6    1,192.2        -        -    1,326.9
B. Medical Equipment
1. Hospice
Patient lifts                             unit            12      3.5        -       58.0        -                58.0
IV Pump                                   unit             6      0.8        -        6.6        -        -        6.6
Subtotal Hospice                                                               -       64.6        -        -       64.6
2. Respite Care
Patient lifts                             unit             6      3.5        -       29.0        -        -       29.0
IV Pumps                                  unit             3      0.8        -        3.3        -        -        3.3
Subtotal Respite Care                                                          -       32.3        -        -       32.3
3. Ambulatory Care
Patient lifts                              unit            6      3.5        -       29.0        -        -       29.0
IV Home Pump                              unit             3      0.8        -        3.3        -        -        3.3
Other community care equipment             Is                                -       75.9        -        -       75.9
Subtotal Ambulatory Care                                                       -      108.2        -        -      108.2
Subtotal Medical Equipment                                                         -      205.1        -        -      205.1
C. Develop/lmplement Hospice Model
1. Foreign TA                                mo              1       15     15.9          -        -        -       15.9
2. Local TA                                  mo              2        2      2.6        2.6        -        -        5.1
Subtotal Develop/lmplement Hospice Model                                        18.5        2.6        -        -       21.0
D. Develop/implement Respite Care
1. ExternalTA/b                              mo           0.75       15     11.9          -        -        -       11.9
2. External Training /c                    course            1        3      3.2          -        -        -        3.2
Subtotal Develop/lmplement Respite Care                                         15.1          -        -        -       15.1
E. Develop/lmplement Homecare Service
1. Vehicles Id                              unit            10       20        -      276.1        -        -      276.1
2. External TA /e                            mo           0.75       15     11.9          -        -        -       11.9
Subtotal Develop/lmplement Homecare Service                                     11.9      276.1        -        -      288.0
F. Develop/lmplement Ambulatory Care



49
1. ExternalTA/f                               mo            0.75       15     11.9           -        -        -        11.9
2. Local TA Ig                                mo            0.75        2       1.9          -        -        -         1.9
3. External Training /h                      course            1        3      3.2           -        -        -         3.2
Subtotal Develop/implement Ambulatory Care                                         17.0          -        -         -       17.0
G. Evaluation of Alternative Care Initiatives /i
1. External TA                                mo            0.75       15        -        12.2        -        -        12.2
2. Local TA                                   mo            0.75        2        -         1.9        -        -         1.9
Subtotal Evaluation of Alternative Care Initiatives                                   -       14.1        -         -       14.1
H. Technical Assistance
1. Project/data set design, protocol dev. /j  mo               3       15     47.7           -        -        -        47.7
2. Dev. of local protocols (MD)               mo               8        2      7.7        12.8        -        -        20.5
3. Nurse leader/coordinator                    yr              4       24     30.7        30.7     30.7     30.7       123.0
4. MD leader/coordinator                       Is                                -        38.4        -        -        38.4
5. Dev. of nursing protocols                  mo               8        2      7.7        12.8        -        -        20.5
6. Guidelines/CQI                              Is                                -        19.2        -        -        19.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                      93.8      114.0     30.7     30.7       269.3
I. Training
1. Nursing Trainer                            mo               2       15     31.8           -        -        -        31.8
2. Data collection/entry                      Is                               2.6           -        -        -         2.6
3. Training community nurses /k               Is                           .  47.3           -        -        -        47.3
4. C0I/guidelines training /I                 Is                                  -       21.0        -         -       21.0
5. Hospital Staff Workshops                   Is                              10.5        21.0        -        -        31.5
Subtotal Training                                                                  92.1       42.0        -         -      134.1
J. PR Campaign
1. External TA                                Is                              15.9        10.8        -        -        26.7
2. Documents and Materials                    Is                              20.3        13.8        -        -        34.1
Subtotal R Campaign                                                                36.2       24.6        -         -       60.8
Total Investment Costs                                                             419.3    1,870.7      30.7     30.7    2,351.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment O&M                           Is                                 -       20.9     21.1      21.2       63.2
B. Vehicle O&M                                     Is                                 -       13.0     13.1      13.2       39.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                   -       34.0     34.2      34.4      102.5
Total                                                                               419.3    1,904.7      64.9     65.1    2,454.0
\a for acute home care
\b 2 weeks at start, and six months later, another week.
\c 1 week study tour for 1 staff in Europe.
\d Ten vehicles for homecare services use.
\e 2 weeks at start, and six months later, another week.
\f 2 weeks at start, 1 week after 6 months.
\g 2 weeks at start, I week after 6 months.
\h 1 week study tour in UK for 1 staff.



50
\i Joint
j project/data set design, protocol dev., site design, pt. education program dev., patient selection and care guidelines.
\ 6 weeks.
\1 5 staff for 4 weeks.



51
Table 7. National Heart Care
Program
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)                                                 Quantities   Unit                           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       Total     Cost      2000       2001       2002      2003        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Site Preparation
1. Dubrava Hospital Cardio Unit          Is                                  -       67.7          -          -        67.7
2. Rebro Cardio Unit                     Is                                  -       94.8          -          -        94.8
Subtotal Site Preparation                                                           -      162.6          -          -       162.6
B. Medical Equipment
1. ER resuscitation/monitoring/a         Is                              663.8      676.4          -          -      1,340.3
2. Diagnostic cardiology equipment lb  per site          2    1,200          -    3,313.2          -          -      3,313.2
3. Intravascular Ultrasound             site             1       80          -      110.4          -          -        110.4
4. Doppler ultrasound scanner /c        site              1     200          -      276.1          -          -       276.1
5. Electrophysiology Equipment /d       unit              1     100          -      138.0          -          -        138.0
6. Intra-aortic Balloon Pump /e         unit              2      32          -       88.4          -          -         88.4
Subtotal Medical Equipment                                                      663.8    4,602.6          -          -     5,266.4
C. Cardiology Consumables/f                    Is               3     840           -    1,159.6    1,181.6    1,204.1     3,545.3
D. Telecommunications Equipment                Is                             1,354.7    1,794.6          -          -     3,149.4
E. Technical Assistance
1.Project/data set design, protocol dev. /g  mo          2       15       31.8          -          -          -         31.8
2. Dev. of local protocols (MD)          mo              10       2       25.6          -          -          -         25.6
3. Dev. of nursing protocols             mo              10       2       25.6          -          -          -         25.6
4. Data coliection/tech. writer          Is                                  -        12.8       12.8         -         25.6
5. Programmer                            Is                                  -       12.8       12.8          -         25.6
6. MD leader/coordinator                 Is                                  -       38.4          -          -         38.4
7. Trainers - ER/EMS staff               Is                                  -       26.3       26.3          -         52.5
8. Guidelines/CQI                        Is                                  -       38.4          -          -         38.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                    83.0      128.7       51.9          -       263.6
F. Training
1. Nursing/ACLS Trainer                 mo               2       15       31.8          -          -          -         31.8
2. CQI/guidelines Trainer                mo              2        15          -      32.4          -           -        32.4
3. Training ER/EMS Staff                 Is                                  -       52.5       52.5          -        105.0
4. Risk behavior counselling             Is                                   -      52.5        52.5      52.5        157.5
5. Workshops for hosp. staff             Is                                  -        15.8       15.8          -        31.5
Subtotal Training                                                                31.8      153.2      120.8       52.5       358.2
G. Heart Care Program
1. Primary Care
Extemal TA: IEC Effectiveness/h       mo                1      15        15.9         -          -          -         15.9
Local TA: IEC Effectiveness /i        mo              0.5       2         1.3         -          -          -          1.3



52
Training: Risk Assessment/j             mo             0.5        2         0.6        0.6          -          -          1.3
Training Course /k                      Is                                  2.1i       2.1          -          -          4.2
Training: Evaluation                    mo             0.5       15           -        4.1        4.1          -          8.2
Subtotal Primary Care                                                        19.9        6.8        4.1          -         30.8
2. Secondary Care
Training: Emergency Care Options /I     mo            0.75        2         0.6        0.6        0.6          -          1.9
Training Course /m                      Is                                 2.1         2.1        2.1          -          6.3
Training: Evaluation /n                 mo             0.5       15           -        4.1        4.1          -          8.2
Subtotal Secondary Care                                                       2.7        6.8        6.9          -         16.4
3. Tertiary Care
External TA: Sustaining Recurrent       mo               3       15       31.8        16.2          -          -        48.0
Funds
Local TA: Sustaining Recurrent Funds    mo               2        2        5.1           -          -          -          5.1
Rationing /o                            Is                                28.1           -          -          -        28.1
Subtotal Tertiary Care                                                       65.0       16.2          -          -         81.2
Subtotal Heart Care Program                                                        87.7       29.8       11.0           -       128.5
H. Media Campaigns
1. External TA                            Is                                31.8        21.6       11.0          -         64.4
2. Documents and materials                Is                                 14.9       15.2       15.5       15.8         61.3
3. Media spots                            Is                                 89.7       89.7       89.7       89.7        358.7
Subtotal Media Campaigns                                                          136.4      126.5      116.2       105.4       484.4
Total Investment Costs                                                            2,357.5    8,157.5    1,481.4    1,362.0    13,358.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment O&M                         Is                                77.4      526.2      529.3       532.4      1,665.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                77.4      526.2      529.3       532.4      1,665.3
Total                                                                              2,434.9    8,683.7    2,010.7    1,894.4    15,023.7
\a Emergency room equipment for cardiac care - for 20 county ERs
\b Digital Angiography Equipment for 2 Zagreb sites: Rebro and Dubrova Hospitals.
\c Color Doppler echocardiograph - ebra Hospital, Zagreb.
\d Rebro Hospital, Zagreb
\e For Debra and Dubrava Hospitals, Zagreb
U Catheters, x-ray film and other consumables needed for operation of diagnostic cardology equipment.
\g project/data set design, protocol dev., site design, pt. education program dev., patient selection and care guidelines.
\h Evaluation
\i Evaluation
\j Risk assessment and PHC management. Includes first line medical mgt. of coronary occlusion.
\k Course for GPs - in yr. 1 and yr. 2
\l including streptokinase. Lead training course.
\m Training course for yrs. 1, 2 and 3.
\n Evaluation in yrs. 2 and 3.
\o Develop clinical guidelines for determining clinical priority for use of equipment.



53
Table 8. Drug Use Protocols
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                          Quantities   Unit                          Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit      Total    Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. Project/data set design, protocol dev. /a   mo     4       15     63.6        -       -        -    63.6
2. National Formulary Review          mo              3       15     47.7        -       -        -    47.7
3. Dev. of protocols (pharm)           mo            24        2     30.7    30.7        -        -    61.5
4. Data set design, collection         mo            12        2     15.4    15.4        -        -    30.7
5. Data collection/tech. writer        Is                            38.4    38.4        -        -    76.9
6. Data analysis, programmer           Is                            32.0    32.0        -        -    64.1
7. National Workshops                  Is                               -    52.5        -        -    52.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                           227.9   169.1         -       -   396.9
B. PR Campaign
1. Documentation/b                     Is                            19.2    12.8        -        -    32.0
Total                                                                     247.1    181.9        -        -   429.0
\a project/data set design, protocol dev., site design, pt. education program dev., patient selection and care guidelines.
\b for MDs.



54
Table 9. Public Health
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                                         Quantities   Unit                         Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit      Total    Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Health Monitoring/Data Analysis/Evaluation
1. Household health surveys
Data collection                                 Is                            128.1   128.1        -        -     256.2
Lab testing                                      Is                               -    51.2        -        -      51.2
Interviewer training /a                         Is                             25.6       -        -        -      25.6
Design/analytic plan                            Is                             53.0       -        -        -      53.0
Data file preparation                           Is                             12.8    12.8        -       -       25.6
Subtotal Household health surveys                                               219.5   192.2        -        -     411.7
2. Analytical Reports
Analysis/report writing                          Is                               -    12.8    12.8         -       25.6
Printing/dissemination                           Is                               -    25.6    12.8         -      38.4
Public information/press                         Is                               -     6.4      6.4        -       12.8
Subtotal Analytical Reports                                                         -    44.8    32.0         -      76.9
3. Evaluation
Media Campaign                                   Is                             6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4      25.6
Physician training evaluation                   Is                             12.8    12.8        -        -      25.6
Education Evaluation /b                         Is                             12.8    12.8        -        -      25.6
Subtotal Evaluation                                                              32.0    32.0      6.4      6.4      76.9
Subtotal Health Monitoring/Data Analysis/Evaluation                                   251.6   269.0    38.4       6.4     565.4
B. Health Promotion
1. Health Promotion Program Unit
Office Refurbishing                             Is                             67.3       -        -        -      67.3
Equipment                                       Is                             27.1    13.8        -        -      40.9
Library and Reference Materials                 Is                             13.5    13.8        -        -      27.4
Subtotal Health Promotion Program Unit                                          108.0    27.6        -        -     135.6
2. Human Resource Development
External training /c                           course           4     37.5    79.5    81.0         -        -     160.5
Study tours /d                                  Is                             21.2    21.6    11.0         -      53.8
Subtotal Human Resource Development                                             100.7   102.6    11.0         -     214.3
3. Professional HP Education /e
Program Development                             mo              1       10        -    10.8        -       -       10.8
Curriculum materials/f                          mo              2       10        -    12.8    12.8         -      25.6
Books and materials                             Is                                -    13.8    14.1         -      27.9
Subtotal Professional HP Education                                                  -    37.4    26.9         -      64.3
4. Physician/county IPH Staff Education



55
Physician secondary prevention program /g        program            6       10     21.0     21.0      21.0        -       63.0
Group treatment programs /h                      program            2       20     21.0      21.0        -        -       42.0
Subtotal Physicianicounty NIPH Staff Education                                        42.0     42.0     21.0        -      105.0
5. Training Seminars for Health Professionals /i      Is                              21.0     21.0     21.0        -       63.0
Subtotal Health Promotion                                                                  271.7    230.6     79.9         -      582.2
Total Investment Costs                                                                       523.2   499.6    118.3       6.4    1,147.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff Salaries /j                            yr              16       22     88.0     88.0     88.0      88.0      352.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                         88.0     88.0     88.0     88.0       352.0
Total                                                                                        611.2    587.6    206.3      94.4    1,499.6
\a Quality control
\b Risk group education evaluation.
\c 4 NCD (epidemiologists, health promotion, health policy) training abroad and study tours
\d Existing staff upgraded.
\e Health Promotion
f Development of curriculum materials
\g Physicians trained in protocols for secondary CVD prevention, referral and treatment.
\h Two programs for training of ancillary health workers in group treatment programs.
\i Three seminars annually to improve professional knowledge, reporting and planning for NCD control.
\j Four staff.



56
Table 10. Pharmaceutical
Waste Disposal
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                Quantiti   Unit                           Totals Including
es                                      Contingencies
Unit    Total   Cost      2000      2001    2002    2003      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Emergency Drug Disposal
1. Disposal implementation
Consolidation/sorting     Is                          417.6        -       -        -     417.6
Transportation             is                         321.3        -       -        -     321.3
Incineration               Is                        2,709.5       -       -        -    2,709.5
Final disposition         Is                          379.3                -        -     379.3
Total                                                         3,827.7       -       -        -    3,827.7



57
Table 11. System-wide Initiatives
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)                                                Quantities   Unit                             Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit     Total     Cost      2000      2001      2002    2003       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. MOH Dept. for Fin./Plan/QA /a
1. Site preparation                       Is                              25.6      24.4        -        -       50.0
2. External TA                            mo             3       15          -       48.6       -        -       48.6
3. External Training /b                   Is                              53.0       54.0    55.0        -      162.0
4. Office Equipment                       Is                              20.3          -       -        -       20.3
Subtotal MOH Dept. for Fin./PIan/QA                                            98.9      127.0    55.0        -      280.9
B. Design/implem. System Initiative
1. Design/lmplem. Management
External TA                              Is                            254.4          -       -        -      254.4
Local TA                                Is                             153.7          -       -        -      153.7
Subtotal Design/lmplem. Management                                       408.1          -       -        -      408.1
2. National Clearinghouse
External TA /c                          mo             1       15       15.9          -       -        -       15.9
Local TA                                mo             2      2.5        6.4          -       -        -        6.4
Subtotal National Clearinghouse                                           22.3          -       -                22.3
3. Health Care Data Modelling
External TA                             mo             2       15       31.8          -       -        -       31.8
Local TA                                mo             4      2.5       12.8         -        -        -       12.8
Subtotal Health Care Data Modelling                                       44.6          -       -        -       44.6
4. MBDS Design/Database Constr.
External TA                             mo             4       15       63.6          -       -        -       63.6
Local TA                                mo             8      2.5       25.6          -       -        -       25.6
Subtotal MBDS Design/Database Constr.                                     89.2          -       -        -       89.2
5. Modelling/Simulation
External TA                             mo             4       15       63.6          -       -        -       63.6
Local TA                                mo             8      2.5       25.6          -       -        -       25.6
Subtotal Modelling/Simulation                                             89.2          -       -        -       89.2
Subtotal Design/lmplem. System Initiative                                     653.5          -       -        -      653.5
C. Design/implement Pilot Info. System
1. External TA                             Is                            254.4          -       -        -      254.4
2. Local TA                               Is                             153.7          -       -        -      153.7
Subtotal Design/implement Pilot Info. System                                  408.1          -       -        -      408.1
D. HW/SW System
1. Info.system, upgrade for pilot /d      Is                                 -     897,3        -        -      897.3
2. Info system, PHCs                       Is                                -      241.6       -        -      241.6



58
3. Area regional network /e                Is                                 -      227.8        -       -      227.8
Subtotal HW/SW System                                                              -    1,366.7        -        -    1,366.7
E. National Clearinghouse/f                     Is                            1,219.3    1,242.4       -       -    2,461.7
F. Pharmaceutical Rationalization
1. Environ. Impact Study/g                mo              2       15       31.8          -       -        -       31.8
2. Reference Pricing/Application
External TA                             mo.             6       15       95.4          -        -       -       95.4
Local TA                                mo             12        2       25.2          -       -        -       25.2
Subtotal Reference PricinglApplication                                    120.6          -        -       -      120.6
3. Dev. of Co-payment Structures
External TA                             mo              6       15       47.7       48.6        -       -       96.3
Local TA                                mo             20        2       25.6       25.6       -        -       51.2
Subtotal Dev. of Co-payment Structures                                     73.3       74.2        -       -       147.5
Subtotal Pharmaceutical Rationalization                                        225.7       74.2        -        -     299.9
G. Pharma Education/Training
1. Public Information
External TA                             mo              6       15       47.7       48.6       -        -       96.3
Local TA                                mo             12        2       15.4       15.4       -        -       30.7
Publications and other materials         Is                             135.5      138.0       -        -      273.5
Subtotal Public Information                                               198.5      202.0        -       -      400.6
2. External Training                       Is                              53.0       54.0       -        -      107.0
3. Local Training
Courses                                  Is                              21.0       21.0       -        -       42.0
Learning Materials                      Is                               52.5       52.5       -        -      105.0
Subtotal Local Training                                                    73.5       73.5       -        -      147.0
Subtotal Pharma Education/Training                                             325.0      329.5        -        -     654.6
Total Investment Costs                                                         2,930.5    3,139.9    55.0        -    6,125.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. HW/SW System                                 Is                                 -       78.7    79.1    79.6        237.4
B. National Clearinghouse EQ O&M                Is                              71.1      143.0   143.9   144.7        502.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                                             71.1      221.7   223.0   224.3       740.1
Total                                                                           3,001.6    3,361.6   278.0   224.3    6,865.5
\a Ministry of Health: Department for Financing, Planning and Quality Assurance
\b Training abroad for selected staff of MOH/NIPH/CIHI.
\c Establish nationla health data clearinghouse - organiz. development
\d HW, SW, training, implementation - pilot region
\e to connect hospital, local HIl, PHI and PHCs. [need to look at telecommunications costs more closely.]
\f Hardware and software for national clearing house, including implementation and training, and establishing network connection.
\g Environ. impact of drug disposal.



59
Table 12. Project Management
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)                                          Quantities   Unit                          Totals Including
Contingencies
Unit     Total     Cost    2000    2001    2002    2003       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Site Refurbishment                       Is                          20.2        -        -       -       20.2
B. Office Equipment and Acctg. Software    Is                           47.4        -       -        -       47.4
C. Office Rent and Supplies                Is                           32.5    33.1    33.8    34.4        133.8
D. PMU Staff
1. PMU Director                       mo            48      3.9    46.8    46.8    46.8    46.8        187.2
2. Program Director                   mo            48      3.9    46.8    46.8    46.8    46.8        187.2
3. Technical Specialist/a             yr            48    2.667    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0        128.0
4. Short term consultant /b           mo            24     2.25    20.3    13.5    13.5       6.8       54.0
5. Financial Officer/Acct.            yr            48       2    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0          96.0
6. Procurement Officer                mo            48       2    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0          96.0
7. Procurement Specialist (Short term) /c  mo       14       2      12.0     8.0     4.0      4.0       28.0
8. Administrative Assistant           yr             4       17    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0         68.0
Subtotal PMU Staff                                                     222.9   212.1   208.1   201.4        844.4
E. Staff Training
1. Extemal Training                   Is                           26.5    32.4    27.5         -       86.4
2. Workshops                           Is                          15.8      5.3      5.3       -       26.3
Subtotal Staff Training                                                 42.2    37.7    32.8         -      112.7
F. Project Audit /d                        mo             4      30    31.8    32.4    33.0    33.6         130.9
Total Investrnent Costs                                                  397.0   315.3   307.7   269.4    1,289.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment O&M                            Is                            5.5     5.6      5.6     5.6       22.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                      5.5      5.6     5.6      5.6       22.3
Total                                                                     402.6   320.9   313.2   275.0    1,311.7
\a To support Program Director in project activities.
\b To provide coordination of project working groups.
Xc Short term TA to support peak periods of procurement activities.
\d Annual project audit



60
ANNEX 4
Croatia Health System Project
Overview of Economic Analysis
Macro-Economic Context
Since the early 1990s, the economy of Croatia has suffered an economic recession due to
the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. Real GDP fell in 1993 by 2.48 percent, for example, but
has since rebounded, and has grown at over 5 percent of GDP in 3 of the last four recorded years.
The GDP per capita in 1994 was $2,978, and was estimated to have increased in 1996 to $3,993
(see Table 1).
The medium term prognosis is promising although uncertain, especially in light of the
recent conflicts in Yugoslavia and surrounding areas. The growth in consumer prices has slowed
considerably in the last two years as the effects of price liberalization and the negative impact of
recession have worked through the system (see Table 1). There has been positive growth over
the past few years, but there is an expected decline in real growth (-1.0 percent) this year. With
th,e economy growing slowly and with the expected resolution of the current Kosovo conflict, a
resumption of growth is expected in the medium term of 1.0, 1.5, and 2.5 percent per annum in
the next three years, using Bank estimates from the draft CAS. The current crises could have an
impact on these estimates as tourism revenues may plummet and further access to international
capital markets is difficult. And, there are indications of a general crisis of confidence, reflected
in deposit withdrawals from the banking system and currency substitution against the Kuna.
There are significant budgetary shortfalls (almost 13 percent in the health insurance fund) as
buidget assumptions were based on unrealistic growth/revenue projections.
Despite some early promising signals in the mid 1990s, growth may be contingent upon
maintaining and expanding fiscal reforms not only in health but across a number of sectors.
Growth scenarios in this analysis assume a conservative but steady 3 percent growth in GDP in
years 6-20, and are based on the premise that there are no more regional conflicts and that the
economy continues on a growth path similar to the recent one with expanding tourism trade and
an expanding industrial and service base.
The projected budget for the health sector is not available, but one of the two following
assumptions might be used. The first, would assume steady growth as a percentage of GDP,
while the second assumption would follow the experience of middle income countries generally
with a positive income elasticity for government health-care spending. This analysis uses the
first assumption, a conservative projection. The proportion of the budget devoted to health has
not remained stable, however, and has zig-zagged from 25.6 in 1991 to 18.5 in 1992, with
subsequent years showing similar volatility (see Table 1). This volatility complicates any
analysis and estimates over the life of the loan re-payment.
A second issue is the deficit of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance (CIHI), which
hais run deficits in several years since its creation in the early 1990s. In 1999, the deficit is



61
projected to be 12.9 percent of revenues. Revenues for the CIHI are over 95 percent of all public
revenues for the health sector.
Table 1. Macro Economic Indicators
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
GDP Projections (per capita,    ~ $2,978   $3,785     $3,993     $4,213      $4,444
using current US$)
Real Annual Growth of GDP         -2.48       5.98      2.65        5.5         5.5
Consumer Prices (% increase                    94        5.1        2.7         4.3
over prior year)
Public Budget for Health                   1173.84    1526.04    1327.26
(millions $US)
Public Budget for Health as % of  25.58      19.25     16.88
Total Government Expenditures
Scope of Work
We do two things in this annex. First, we report on the economic analysis and financial
analysis of the proposed Project. The analysis is a cost-benefit analysis, and it is limited to an
exploration of quantifiable results such as the impacts of the elements of the Project relating to
improvements in primary health services and restructuring of secondary services in one pilot
region of 130,000 population. It is an analysis limited to elements easily measured. It cannot
fully quantify the benefits of supporting other aspects of the Project, such as destruction of
outdated pharmaceuticals, some aspects of health status improvement such as the national
program for surveillance and monitoring public health and health promotion, and improving the
clinical information base. It is based on the investment and recurrent costs of all components
over a twenty year period (5 year grace and 15 year pay-back period). The benefits are limited to
measurable health sector savings and indirect financial benefits to the community, together with
an exploration of the likely health effect of the most important elements of the Project. The
economic analysis pulls together all public and social benefits and costs. Within this analysis, a
more focused financial analysis examines the impact of the Project upon the costs to the
public/government sector only. The complexity of Project benefits and means of valuation
makes any attempt to quantify them in one standard unit, monetary or otherwise, extremely
difficult and vulnerable to a wide confidence band. We do not present the actual spreadsheets
here, but these were presented in an earlier draft and are available upon request. Secondly, we
develop a quality assessment of non-quantifiablc aspects of the Project, and provide some
indications of relative cost-effectiveness based on literature and experience of other Bank-
financed projects.
Summary of Benefits
All local costs were converted into US dollars. An exchange rate of 6.2 Kuna to one US
dollar is used, representing the exchange rate on the street (commercial rate) at the end of 1998.
Recurrent costs relying largely or exclusively on local labor (e.g., facilities civil works, staff
salaries, etc.) are relatively small and were not adjusted before converting them to dollars to
allow for differences in the local purchasing power, though this could potentially be done using



62
the ratio of $US GDP per capita at market exchange rates to -GDP per capita measured on the
ba,sis of an available purchasing power parity (PPP).
(a)    Direct Financial Benefits
The Project investments in primary care will permit staff to treat a wider range of
conditions. This is expected to have a significant impact on hospital admissions, lengths of stay,
number of beds, and staffing levels. In some countries of region, admission rates have fallen by
between 15 and 20 percent as a consequence of similar financing models of reform (see, for
example, Ensor, 1996; Sheiman, 1994). In Croatia, hospital admissions have been growing from
about 12 per 1,000 population in 1993 to over 15 in 1997. This is not particularly high by East
European standards, but is certainly high by OECD standards, suggesting room for more
outpatient care and sub-acute care. It is also true, however, that improved primary care may lead
to the identification of more disease offsetting some of the reduction in admissions (albeit for
different specialties). The analysis assumes that admissions will fall by a net 10 percent, and
builds in an increased cost for outpatient and sub-acute services, estimated at 30 percent of an
average admission using estimates from other ECA countries (see, for example, Sherman and
Goldin, 1996).
It is expected that the economic incentive in the pilot demonstrations will force cutbacks
in staff or a more efficient mix of staff. Currently, the Government continues to be non-
confrontational with medical provider unions, and rely (at least implicitly) on old Eastern-bloc
standards for staffing of existing and newly-opened facilities. The Project will encourage
efficiencies that will create some market pressure for flexibility for hiring and firing of staff, as
well as changing the mix of inputs including personnel. During this analysis, estimates of
personnel cutbacks were developed for facility closures and for changes in efficiency only.
Assumptions for staff reductions are 10 percent in year 1, 20 percent in years 2 and 3, and 25
percent in years 4 and 5. The savings estimates further assume that 10 percent are lost each year
due to natural attrition; the rest to redundancy. Those cut due to redundancy would receive 2
years full salary. These total staff cutback assumptions are quite conservative and other analyses
have used estimates based on international comparisons of levels of productivity. The estimates
he:re show that over the life of the Project, and over the full replication period nationally,
decreases in levels and types of personnel might be expected to decrease personnel costs
modestly.
A third source of savings will come from restructuring inpatient care, including the
consolidation of services, new levels of care for more appropriate use of resources, and possible
closing of facilities. These vary across the regions of the country. It is assumed that the strategy
for hospital restructuring follows a reduction in inpatient admissions of 10 percent and a
recduction in average length of stay.
Importantly, the analysis assumes that the savings will occur during the first five years
only in the pilot region of Koprivnica, an area of about 130,000 population, or less than 3 percent
of the population of the country as a whole. The benefits are small, even negligible. But, the
analysis then assumes that the demonstrations will be replicated nationwide in years 6-10, at the
sarne rate of savings and efficiencies and at the same rate of impact during implementation.



63
The analysis may overstate potential savings. For example, savings as a consequence of
hospital restructuring and integration of services may retain some or even most of these savings
for improving the quality of health care at this level. As a result, it is assumed that the full
resource impact will not be felt all at once, but only gradually at a straight line phase-in over 5
years after the initiation of the Project. Likewise, this same assumption was applied for the
national replication phase.
A final source of directly measurable savings is the savings from rent payments now
made for outdated and unusable pharmaceuticals. The rent per month is estimated at $40,000; it
is assumed that the savings will accrue over a 4 year phase-in, beginning in Year 2. A straight-
line phase in schedule is assumed here.
(b)   Indirect Benefits
A complete economic analysis must take account of these direct impacts and the wider
benefits on society. There are at least two main categories of community benefits to consider:
indirect financial benefits, and non-financial (health) benefits.  Indirect financial benefits
included in this analysis are productivity savings and travel time/cost savings.
Productivity Savings. Reducing the length of time each patient remains in hospital will reduce
the productivity losses associated with medical care. The relationship is not direct since some
patients will simply spend more time convalescing at home. To the extent that patients spend
less time waiting for treatment or in hospital receiving post-operative treatment that they could
obtain as an ambulatory patient, this will result in a direct productivity saving. For this analysis,
it is estimated 20 percent of the bed day saving results in productivity savings. Savings are
valued at the average per capita wage assuming 220 working days per year.
Non-Financial (Healthi) Benefits. Available data support the contention that the Project's
primary care and secondary prevention focus is a cost-effective strategy of addressing the
nation's burden of disease. It is difficult to quantify and then value the health benefits that are
likely to accrue from the Project. There will be multiple, additional benefits to health that accrue
from:
*  national integrated cardiovascular disease treatment and prevention program;
*  improved public health practice through improved health and behavioral risk factor
surveillance systems, and an improved infrastructure in health promotion;
*  reduction in the public health risk of surplus pharmaceuticals following the period of war;
*  improved health information systems, clinical protocols, standards for health facilities and
care, policy development activities, management training, and analysis of key policy
interventions.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) (stroke, ischaemic heart disease, acute myocardial
infarction, and heart failure) are the leading causes of death in Croatia, comprising 69 percent of
all deaths in 1997. Cerebrovascular disease mortality is twice the European Union average, for
example, and increasing since the early 1990s. Significant disease burden is associated with
circulatory and respiratory disorders generally, and cancers.



64
Using estimates from the Global Burden of Disease. (GBD) Study, and building on
rnortality data from 1996, estimates can be made of the current impact of a few important
diseases (stated in YLL's or Years of Life Lost, and or Disability-Adjusted Life Years
[DALYs]). The impact analysis includes only non-communicable diseases, in particular
cardiovascular diseases (CVD), cancer, and stroke. The results should be considered very
approximate; the importance is that it provides a general scale of different diseases and risk
factors, and their impact relative to each other.2
Based on the semi-quantitative criteria (impact and cost-effectiveness), and some
complementary non-quantitative criteria (for example, related risk factor reduction goals), a
recommendation is made for the inclusion or not of interventions in each of the component
categories of the Project.
For the primary health-care (PHC) development sub-component, secondary CVD and
stroke prevention interventions (i.e., using interventions against early signs of or risk factors for
disease) will be included as a prominent part of the Koprivnica pilot. These will involve risk
factor reduction (dietary and medical management of hypercholesterolemia, counseling and drug
treatment of tobacco use, screening and aggressive management of hypertension, and high-
quality post myocardial infarction care). Importantly, the probable effect of these interventions
on reducing CVD and stroke mortality and morbidity, and on hospital utilization for these
diseases, will be monitored using both a PHC information system developed during the Health I
Project and a new hospital-based medical information system (MIS) in the new health Project.
Depending on specific socioeconomic and political characteristics of the pilot region, such
surveillance may have anywhere from great to little effect on risk factor reduction. The
recommendations for secondary preventive interventions against CVD and stroke in the PHC
that are related to the national CVD program and to the public health component are summarized
in Table 2 below.
2 These do not intend to demonstrate the absolute burden of diseases or risk factors. To avoid this confusion, the word
impact, and not burden, has been used throughout the analysis, even though the unit used is DALYs. Second, the quantification
of impact is complemented by cost-effectiveness data (in general descriptive terms) gathered from Jamison and Mosley 1993, to
arrive at an approximate ranking of interventions and project activities both by impact, and by priority of investment. Not all
activities are evaluated due to lack of data. Other sources of data used are Puska (1995), which report on impacts of community-
based CVD control programs.
The establishment of priorities and the final recommendation as to the inclusion of each intervention are based on a few
criteria. The semi-quantitative criteria are: (i) disease impact, and (ii) cost-effectiveness, and the non-quantitative are: (i)
preventability, (ii) integration with actions within other parts of Health 11 (Primary Health Care IB and National Heart Care
Demonstration IC), (iii) being an indicator for a functional primary health-care system, and (iv) the probability that improved
surveillance information would lead to better control (i.e. reduced impact) of the disease or risk factor. For many diseases,
mathematical models have been created for the projection of future patterns, most notably for HIV/AIDS (Over, et al., 1995).
However, this is not a practical path for the design of health promotion and behavioral surveillance because (i) the construction of
each model is laborious and time-consuming, and (ii) it is not easy to validate these models. One option is to simply examine the
risk factors and health promotion interventions on a case-by-case basis using the observed changes in each risk factor in the past
and the observed changes in mortality and morbidity of CVDs or other NCDs (within or outside the national territory). Often, a
simple quantitative indicator can serve as an adjunct to this decision process. The indicators chosen for this study is the CVD and
stroke mortality.



65
Table 2. Summary of Secondary Prevention Activities and Impacts
r  .                                               cost-               Disease
Disease or Risk          Intervention        Effective-   Cost    Impact
Factor                                      ness             Reduction*
Post-myocardial      Aspirin, beta blockers     ++        ++         +
infarction care
Exercise program         ++        +         ++
Smoking cessation        +.         +         ...
Dietary fat reduction     ...        +         ++
Cholesterol lowering drugs   +         ++       ....
Hypertension control   Patient screening (not     ...        +        ...
population) and follow up
Appropriate drug protocols   +         ++       ....
Non-medical (weight loss,   ++         +         ++
exercise, smoking cessation,
diet)
Stroke           Hypertension control        +        ++        ....
Aspirin              ++        +        ....
Smoking cessation         +         +        ...
Weight loss and diet      +          +         +
CVD prevention        Hypertension control       +        ++         ++
Diet, exercise, weight loss  +         +          ..
Smoking cessation         +         +        ....
Cholesterol drug and dietary  +        +++       ....
management        I_I
* includes morbidity, mortality, and utilization of hospitalization reductions
For the CVD  national health-care demonstration program  component, significant
investments are proposed for cardiac diagnostic centers, emergency care units, and training, and
improvements in the system of emergency medical services begun during the first health Project
are proposed. Generally speaking, such interventions are expensive in the up-front costs, but
also require high recurrent costs for equipment, upgrades, training, facilities, and salaries. The
Bank's current estimates are $2.0 to $2.5 million per year. To offset these potential increases, the
Ministry will develop for the Project's formal Negotiations, a package of savings including i)
substitution of high-end services and ii) a national purchasing demonstration to improve the
efficiency of delivered services. It is true, furthermore, that early cardiac emergency care (from
advanced life support in the field to early invasive diagnostic care) can improve individual
patient outcomes and possibly reduce mortality for those with unlimited access to such services.
And, coupled with an effective community based CVD program, increased direct costs for care
(for example, 54% over 25 years among persons 35-64 in North Karelia, Finland) can be offset
by reductions in indirect costs (-49% for the period and group) (Puska, 1995). Physicians are
most comfortable with acute tertiary care approaches, but with the emphasis on PHC and with
the ancillary public health approaches, a comprehensive national CVD reduction program will be
developed that would address both prevention and early treatment. Table 3 shows early
treatment, secondary and tertiary prevention activities that would be a part of a national CVD
program.



66
Table 3. Summary: Tertiary Prevention Activities and Impacts
AMI/unstable angina      ACLS                +          +..         +
Coronary care units      +          ++++
Drug treatment        ++
Invasive diagnosis      +          ++++        ++
Angioplasty          ++          I ++++     ++
CABG               ++          +          ++
Emergency system        ++E++                  ++
support                     __
Chronic angina/CHF   Drug treatment         ++
Invasive diagnosis      +          ++++        ++
Angioplasty          ++           ...+      ++
CABG               ++           ...+      ++
Cardiac rehabilitation               ++
Cholesterol drug and    +++          ++
diet
Smoking cessation      +++           +++
Stroke           Aspirin and                       ++        ++
antihypertensives
Surgery             +                      +
includes morbidity, mortality, and utilization of hospitalization reductions
The public health component will support CVD treatment standards, protocols, and
clinical prevention activities. A strong media advocacy campaign will be developed and
implemented as a tool of the Health Promotion unit, again focusing on CVD risk factor
reduction. Reduction in smoking and alcohol consumption, for example, will help reduce
incidence and costs of lung and liver cancers, as well as cardiopulmonary and cardiovascular
p:roblems. Table 4 shows recommendations for primary prevention activities as part of the
public health component.



67
Table 4. Summary: Primary Prevention Activities and Impacts
D--eas'           loterve.ti.      - , :-t -C. .--,
Conditon                                fetiees nMc
CVD           Behavioral risk factor      +          ++        -.
monitoring and reporting
National Health Survey       +
Public education campaigns    ++          +         ++
Health policy development   ++++          +
Tobacco use    Media advocacy campaigns     ....         +
Policy development        ++++         +
Non-      Human resource development     l l++
communicable      (provider training,
diseases in    epidemiology expertise,
general      undergraduate education)
Health promotion unit       ++         +++       l  
Reports, meetings,        ++                     +
communication
National planning and       ++         ++         ++
strategy development                I       I
* includes morbidity, mortality, and utilization of hospitalization reductions
The health promotion component can also generate new revenues, for example, through
new taxes on alcohol and tobacco. For tobacco reduction alone, the cross-country comparisons
indicate a negative price elasticity of around 0.5 for tobacco, suggesting both new revenues and
fewer smokers. The economic incentives and informational campaigns that yield behavioral
changes might further translate into short-term gains in productivity in the workplace (e.g., fewer
sick days), and longer-term can be expected to have significant impacts on morbidity and
mortality of both men and women. In comparable Bank-financed projects in Georgia and
Estonia, health promotion gains for tobacco alone were estimated as 15 percent annual
reductions after Year 5 of the project, in terms of incidence of mortality and morbidity for adult
men from cardiovascular and lung diseases (e.g., COPD, ischemic heart disease, and lung cancer.
Estimates for women were much lower, the most significant being lung cancer at 1 percent. If
this project assumes only 10 percent impacts in lowered mortality for men in these disease
categories, that would translate into substantial numbers of DALYs saved and associated savings
generated through increased wages and income.
Overall, though data to develop cost-effectiveness ratios using parameters specific to
Croatia are not available, all indications are that the project can lead to eventual reductions in
morbidity and (longer-term) mortality which, from a human capital point of view, will increase
the economic value of people living in the area.
At the same time, DALYs saved will mean higher health costs due to longer lifespans and
more encounters with the medical care delivery system. These additional costs will offset
overall savings, especially if encounters occur more frequently in individuals over 60 years of



68
age who tend to be 2-3 times as costly as those under 60 years of age, on average. Even with
these costs, net gains might be expected.
Nevertheless, the ability of the Government to influence behavior is highly uneven as is seen
in contrasting impacts in (say) the United States versus France. Because the interventions are
difficult to model at this point, and because these impacts -- revenue gains, workforce productivity
gains, and increases in expected years of life - also are difficult to estimate, these are not formally
included in the economic analysis.
(c)    Long-Term Benefits
The Government's delivery restructuring program is intended to be tested in one pilot
region before it is implemented nation-wide.  The Government intends to leam  from  the
experience of the participating areas to improve primary care elsewhere. The program thus has
the major advantage of providing a window for testing, learning, and for dissemination.
The training, the protocols development activity, the public health surveillance systems,
and new measures of health outcomes for analysis sub-components are a particularly good
example of interventions with longer-term but potentially significant benefits. Funding includes
investments for training and continued flows of new information on clinical practice and quality
of care. While, in principle, investment in training depreciates over time, investments in this part
of the Project are devoted to building future training capacity. These activities will also support
formal standards for facilities and guidelines for care. These, in turn, will make possible a new
process for formally accrediting providers and facilities.
The improved information systems and clearinghouse capability, followed with evaluation
and analysis related to policy research and development, will allow development of better and
more timely data, and improved efforts to assess costs and benefits, leading to better information
for improved policy development and decision making.
Summary of Costs
(a)    Incremental Recurrent Costs
The Project has a number of incremental recurrent cost implications.3 These include:
3For the purposes of the analysis several assumptions were built into the cost analysis:
* Resources devoted by the Government to health care grow at the same rate as the economy (around 5 percent per year
starting in the year 1999, 5.5 percent through the year 2006; 3 percent beyond that);
*   Expenditure on salaries and medicines grow at the same rate as the economy. Salaries of health staff are already relatively
high and have jumped considerably since 1994 (roughly doubled), and it is important that their real value is increased over
time in order to provide realistic incentives. Intemational experience suggests that expenditure on medicines grows at least
as fast as economic activity as technologies of treatment advance. Pharmaceutical spending has jumped significantly over
the past 5 years, from 14 percent of recurrent costs to about 26 percent, and growth at the recent trend rate would be
unsustainable;
*   Expenditures on maintenance of current investments increases to nearly 10 percent of the budget. Current levels of
maintenance may be inadequate to maintain the existing building stock.



69
*   maintenance of the rehabilitated buildings;
*   maintenance of equipment;
*   replacement of the equipment, which will occur for most equipment during the paying off
period of the loan; and
* cost of providing pharnaceuticals associated with increased outpatient care.4
The analysis may understate longer-term costs. It does not include an estimate of costs
for equipment and training of the national replication phase of primary and secondary care
restructuring which could require investments of at least $50 to $100 million dollars, or even
more, either through Bank funding or other financing.
4 The maintenance of buildings is estimated at an annual rate of 1/40 of the value of the investment in civil works.
Some of this could be absorbed within the current maintenance budgets, but this analysis assumes that maintenance costs are
relatively low and that all maintenance of project related civil works is incurred as.additional cost. Equipment recurrent costs
include maintenance of purchased items together with the expected replacement costs of equipment during the period of the loan.
Some equipment will be replaced after only a few years while other equipment will last throughout the period of the project.
These variable rates of depreciation are incorporated into the calculations. Standard rules for maintenance and replacement have
been applied. These are:
*   computers: 5 year life, annual maintenance 10 percent of value;
*   office equipment: 10 year life, zero maintenance; and
*   medical equipment: 5 to 7 year life (in U.S. standard rules are 3 years), annual maintenance and running costs 10 percent of
value.
For any drugs and medical supplies, it assumed that the budget must absorb the additional costs on an increasing basis (as project
money declines).



70
Table 5. Summary of Quantified Costs and Benefits Expected from the Project
I) Clinical                                   1) Improved Quality of Care in Services
improved equipment and supplies              - improved protocols
improved protocols for pharmaceutical use    -- accreditation and licensing standards
improved clinical information measures and    2) Reductions in Morbidity and Mortality, such as
base                                         -- reduction in disability and morbidity
national focus on heart disease                associated with other
standards for accreditation and licensing    -- infectious diseases
-- chronic diseases
2) Elimination of outdated and hazardous      3) Reductions in Mortality, longer-term
pharmaceuticals                                reduction in rate of cerebrovascular accidents
reductions in cardio-vascular disease
3) Human Development                              reductions in cancers
training of medical personnel                  behavioral and lifestyle changes reducing
training of managers                           accidents
information for healthier lifestyles
3) Financial and Managerial                   4) Health Insurance Savings
new incentive structures                      facility closures
management strengthening                     reduced hospitalizations
MIS systems                                   reduced ambulatory referrals (to specialists)
reduced staffing/personnel costs
4) Public Health                              5) Increased Budget Revenues
monitoring and surveillance systems           alcohol and tobacco taxes
better tracking of behavior changes        6) Allocational Shifts in Funding
community partnerships                        shift in more expensive specialist-based
media advocacy campaigns                      inpatient care to general practice/outpatient
based care
7) Productivity Savings Economy-Wide
increased wage earnings and increased output
economically-active patient days reduced
Suimmary Analysis of Quantifiable Impacts
The primary finding from the analysis of the limited set of quantifiable benefits and costs
is that for the Government, net costs outstrip net savings by $484,000 over 20 years, but the
overall net present value or NPV is a negative $1,459,274. The number is larger because savings
accrue more in later years rather than in earlier years of the Project lifecycle. The discount rate
used was 6.5 percent, reflecting the approximate loan rate. However, it is expected that some of
these costs can be absorbed through budgets in out-years. If we assume that budget increases for
health grow at the same rate as the economy generally, once incremental budget revenues are
added in, these easily cover Project costs by more than $38.2 million over 20 years, and a
pos:itive NPV of $16.31 million.



71
Furthermore, there are tangible potential social/economic benefits to be gained from the
Project, based on assumptions of improved economic activity. The productivity savings are
calculated at $152.99 million over 20 years; or, a positive NPV at $37.92 million. The discount
rate for calculating the NPV was performed at 10%, based on the Bank's traditional approach of
using a notional range of 10-12% opportunity cost for borrowing for capital. A sensitivity
analysis was performed using an NPV of 4%; the results were the same in terms of direction;
relative amounts changed but only slightly, due to saving streams being significant only in later
years (after year 6, and primarily after year 10). The overall economic benefits assume
successful national replication after year 5 of the regional pilots program. Substantial savings
accrue to individuals and families outside the health sector, and potentially to the employer, in
terms of increased productivity as measured by more work days and fewer days in the hospital.
The quantifiable economic justification therefore lies to some extent in the fact of (i) benefits
going to patients and families and their employers and (ii) from a health care standpoint that the
intervention is directed at shifting health care toward known, established cost-effective strategies
for addressing an excessive burden of disease.
An analysis of the costs and savings accruing to the health sector from the Project points
out that the Project is reliant on four general approaches to achieve sustainability long term.
First, a substantial portion of funds will be saved through efficiency gains in the operations of the
delivery system, through staffing reductions, fuel efficiencies, and so on.  Second, and
concurrently, new financing and payment systems will develop incentives for improved
efficiency. Estimates developed in Project preparation indicate substantial waste due to excess
capacity, lack of incentives, and outdated patterns of care, especially compared to the European
Union countries. Protocol development will update old protocols and reinforce new incentive
structures. Third, as a percentage of budget allocation, more of the budget needs to be directed at
outpatient and primary care. This should be possible as referrals and admissions drop; bed
capacity and decreases in personnel should follow in the inpatient sector. This is consistent with
recent trends both in European Union and other ECA/FSU countries. This allocational shift of
budgetary resources might be considered as part of the covenant of the loan, at least for the pilot
area. Fourth, the Government may need to commit to maintaining current levels of spending (in
real terms) in the pilot site area for health over the course of the Project, especially given the
volatility of funding over the past five years. This, too, can be a covenant of the loan. This
analysis demonstrates that increased public support addresses the financing gap over the life of
the Project and pay back period.
Conclusion
The Project will have a short-term impact on allocative efficiency in the first five years,
by targeting those diseases that contribute substantially to the overall disease burden, and
technical efficiency, by emphasizing cost-effective methods of treating each disease. It will have
a more substantial and positive economic impact if the demonstrations are successful and
replicated nationally. The most directly measurable impacts in the short-term and longer-term
will be on the productivity gains of the workforce through fewer sick days or days in the
hospital. The difficulty in placing a monetary value on health benefits means that the analysis of
the overall economic impact of the Project will remain incomplete. Despite this, the
concentration on funding on primary care and restructuring of secondary care can deliver high



72
benefits for each dollar spent, especially if targeted to have a significant impact on health status,
delivering high value for money, and serving as an example of good practice for the rest of the
country.
Perhaps the dominating value of this Project is that it will give the Government of Croatia
additional tools and thus additional options if and when - perhaps after the election required by
January 2000 - it decides to proceed with a serious rationalization of the health sector and the
sector's associated expenditures. Total health expenditures reflect millions of decentralized
clinical decisions made during interactions between physicians and patients. The challenge for
policy makers is to design and manage health policies and a health-care system that can impose
ani effective ceiling, at a level that the country wishes - and can afford - to sustain, on the total
health expenditures that result from those myriad decentralized clinical decisions. This is
technically very difficult to do and, to be successful, governments require technical tools that
increase their leverage over expenditures. Among these are such tools as a data clearinghouse,
fumd-holding PHC group practices, case-mix adjustments for provider payment, alternative levels
of hospital and secondary care, outsourcing of hospitals' non-medical service functions,
categorization of hospitals, standards and accreditation, clinical protocols, rationalization plans,
options for regulatory and policy regimes that could lead to more effective use of
pharmaceuticals or to alternative sources of health financing, and improved health information
systems. The Project will develop precisely these tools.
CIHI manages an overall budget equivalent to about $US 2 billion. If CIHI could
achieve (say) a very modest two percent improvement in the efficiency of resource use within its
health sector - either through reductions in resource use, or through improvements in the
effectiveness with which those resources are used - it would imply a stream of economic
benefits of the order of $39 million per year in perpetuity. This alone would far outweigh the
investment costs associated with the Project.
For individuals citizens of Croatia, clinical and behavioral changes can boost productivity
in the workplace, and may be expected to have significant impacts on morbidity and mortality of
both men and women in the longer-run. The impacts will be measurable through health status
indicators such as expected years of life and attendant gains in workforce and product output. It
also could yield significant new revenues through alcohol and tobacco taxes.
Finally, the destruction of outdated pharmaceuticals provides a public preventive against
negative health impacts from the possible selling and/or use of these potentially dangerous
materials.  There clearly are benefits from  eliminating an insecurely stored stockpile of
deteriorating pharrnaceuticals that might otherwise: get into the wrong hands and be used to ill
effect; be used by children or adults inappropriately and without appropriate medical
supervision, thereby creating potentially serious health problems; or be recycled or relabeled and
sold to people who are thereby denied effective care because the products are old and ineffective
or mislabeled. In more prosaic terms, this is roughly analogous to the benefits of not leaving a
family's medicines or poisons in the kitchen cupboard under the sink. And, there are benefits to
the environment of eliminating a 2500-ton stockpile of deteriorating pharmaceuticals that might
otherwise leach into the ground water or be dispersed in other ways to the detriment of plant or
animal life, making water supplies in some areas unsafe or unusable, or causing other
unpredictable but undesirable flow-on effects. These monetary, productivity, and health status



73
benefits from the list above are not formally included (quantified) in the economic analysis, but
if it was possible, would contribute to an even stronger benefit-cost ratio.



74
ANNEX 5
Croatia Health System Project
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Not applicable
dorothy clift
K:\DOROTHY\PadA.doc
08/11/99 5:50 PM



75
ANNEX 6
Croatia Health System Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Tables A, Al and A2):
Procurement under the Loan will follow in all respects the Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January 1996, August
1996, September 1998, and January 1999, for Goods and Works, and the Guidelines. Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997,
revised January 1999. For procurement under the Loan, the Borrower would use: (i) the Bank's
standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii) the Bank's standard request for
proposal for selection of consultants.
Implementation: A Capacity Assessment has been done for the Project, and the risk rating is
average. However, it is recommended that an additional person be recruited to support the PMU
Procurement Officer on a part-time basis beginning in the first year of the Project, and that, after
one full year of implementation, the Bank would review the PMU's capacity to effectively
manage the Project.
Advertisement:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the August 15, 1999 issue of
Development Business announcing goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any
complementary information from the PMU. The Specific Procurement Notice will be published
at a later date.
Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Medical and related equipment, and
specialized services which are estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent per contract
will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". Total value of
goods procured through ICB will account for about 63 percent (US$14.9 million) of the total
goods value. Medical equipment will consist of two tenders (total US$10.9 million). Included in
these tenders will be medical equipment for Koprivnica pilot hospital, two cardiovascular care
units in Zagreb, and family medicine physicians and clinics. In addition, two goods contracts for
information technology will be procured through ICB, with a total value US$3.1 million. A
contract for telecommunications equipment for emergency medical services will be procured
through ICB, with a total value estimated at US$3.17 million. Also, for pharmaceutical waste
disposal, a technical services contract covering consolidation/sorting and transport would be
procured through ICB, with a total estimated value of US$.74 million. Civil works contract
covering rehabilitation and re-structuring of the Koprivnica Hospital and the large pilot Primary
Health Center in the pilot area would be procured through ICB, with total value of US$3.5
million. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic



76
preference would apply. A detailed list of equipment is attached. The Bank's latest Standard
Bidding Documents, Standard Form of Consulting Contracts and Requests for Proposals, and
Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms will be used for procurement of Bank financed works,
goods and services.
International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for equipment
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 (i.e., first batch of computer equipment, laptops, audio
visual and office and medical equipment) where the cost of ICB will clearly outweigh price
advantages. The aggregate value of IS is estimated at US$1,940,000 equivalent. International
shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per contract
may be purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing price quotations
obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Aggregate
amount of national shopping is estimated at US$530,000 equivalent. NS accounts for one
percent of the Project procurement.
Direct Contracting (DC). Direct contracting (aggregate US$2,990,000) will be used
for: (a) incineration of expired pharmaceuticals and final disposition of ash by the privately-
owned incinerator located in Zagreb (US$3.1 million); and (b) proprietary items for reasons of
compatibility and standardization (US$190,000). For the incinerator, this would be a direct
contract, as there are no other such facilities in Croatia. Any direct contracting during Project
implementation will need prior Bank approval. With regard to direct contract for the incinerator,
price verification will need to be carried out by either World Health Organization (WHO) or
another independent price verification agency to establish reasonableness of price. Such an
agency could also carry out supervision of this activity. DC accounts for eight percent of Project
procurement.
Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Procedures for NCB will be used for contracts
for civil works estimated to cost less than US$300,000 (i.e., renovations of the two small
Primary Health Centers). NCB aggregate is estimated at US$500,000. ECA sample bidding
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. Bids will be advertised in the national press and/or
official gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Initial site
surveys, to be carried out by engineers or other qualified experts, are provided for under the
Project.
Minor Works (MVV). MW will involve contracts for less than US$50,000 (aggregate is
US$60,000). Due to: (i)the small contract values (US$10,000 - US$50,000 equivalent);
(ii) works that are geographically scattered and spread over time, due to, in part, climatic
conditions; and (iii) labor-intensive techniques, procurement of small-scale civil works would be
procured under lump sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained by at
least 3 qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and according to Bank
guidelines. Contractors and firms would be required to have experience in similar works in the
last two years. The PMU would use sample bidding documents developed in the ECA Region.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,



77
the required completion date, and relevant drawings where applicable. The award shall be made
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract.
Technical Services (TS).  TS will involve 2 contracts: the first will be for
consolidation/sorting/transport of used pharmaceuticals to the Zagreb incinerator - this contract
is referred to in the ICB section above, and has an estimated cost of US$.74 million; and (b)
incineration of the pharmaceuticals and final disposition of the ash, estimated at US$3.1 million.
This contract is referred to in the Direct Contracting section above.
Consulting Services and Training
About ninety percent of the consultants required by the Project shall be engaged on
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and ten percent shall be engaged by other
procedures. Total consulting services and related training shall account for a value of US$8.6
million, or 22 percent of Project procurement. For consulting contracts shortlists, expressions of
interest will be obtained by advertisement in Development Business, and specific notices will be
issued in Development Business for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000. In
addition, advertisement will be made in the national press. Individual consultants shall be
selected in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines: Selections and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in
January 1999. The selection of individuals will be on the basis of comparison of qualifications
among those expressing interest.
Consultant services would be procured for studies in the areas of health, health finance,
accreditation, regulations, public health, training and support. The PMU will use Bank standard
contracts for all consultant services contracts. The following procurement procedures will be
used:
1. Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting firms for
studies in development accreditation standards and criteria, development of regulations,
family medicine development, training and capacity building (MOH), management and
performance incentives, and management of related training. Estimated total value is
US$7.3 million.
2. Fixed Budget (FXB) procedures would be used for hospital pilot site assessment in
Koprivnica, and pharmaceutical waste disposal price verification assessment. Estimated
total value is US$110,000.
3. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection of an auditor to carry
out audit of the Project ( estimated total value US$70,000).
4. Individual Consultants (IC)) procedures would be used for contracting individuals to
provide services for a community health plan and a social assessment. These are both
small assignments, estimated at about US$50,000 each, for which firms may not be
interested. In addition, five individuals (PMU Director, Program Director, Financial
Officer, Procurement Officer and Assistant) will be hired full-time for the life of the
Project to work in the Project Management Unit, with a sixth individual to be hired, as



78
needed, for procurement work during peak periods in-the Project. It is understood that
the individuals hired to work in the PMU will not have civil servant status. Estimated
total value for IC is US$885,000.
5. Staff training. Other than the training aspects being included in the technical assistance
contracts reflected above, stand-alone training will also be financed, in the amount of
US$113,000. This will involve training for staff of the PMU in Project management,
procurement, and finance. A training program will be finalized in accordance with
procedures agreed by the Bank. Expenses for staff training would be disbursed with prior
approval of the Bank.
Recurrent Costs
Project-related travel and subsistence, vehicle insurance, operation and maintenance costs
for medical, computer and other office equipment, office maintenance and supplies will be on the
basis of annual budgets. They will total US$3.6 million. The financing of these costs will be
borne by the Government.
'Prior review thresholds (Table B):
In compliance with Bank procedures, standard bidding documents will be used for all
procurement financed by the Bank. The Bank's prior review of procurement will cover the first
two IS, NS and NCB packages, the first MW package, and in particular, the following: a) master
lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost estimates; b) all ICB contracts for goods;
c) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; d) all direct contracting; and e) all
consulting contracts over US$100,000 with firms and over US$50,000 with individual
consultants. With respect to prior review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Atppendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this prior review will cover about
90 percent of the value of all contracts combined for civil works, equipment and technical
assistance financed by the Bank. One in five contracts will be subject to selective post award
reviews. Progress of procurement activities will be monitored by the PMU. Periodic reports on
pirocurement progress, including variations in schedule, will be submitted to the Bank on a
regular basis. Details of the procurement plan will be discussed during the Project Launch
Workshop scheduled for January 2000.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing in the amount of US$1.0 million can be provided for in the proposed
Project for works, goods and consultant services/training, particularly for initial Project start-up
activities. Only those contracts will be acceptable under retroactive financing which will meet
the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. The
disbursement profile of the Project has been based on experience gained during the previous
Bank-funded Project in the health sector in Croatia. The Project has been designed within the
calpacity of the MOH to execute over a four year period, and loan funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within four and a half years of Loan Signing.



79
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
While acceptable disbursement mechanism based on PMRs is not in place, disbursements
will take place using the traditional disbursement mechanism based on SOEs. All disbursements
against contracts for goods and works costing US$300,000 or more equivalent, and services and
training for consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more and individual consultants costing
US$50,000 or more will be fully documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will be
made against certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) with the exception of the first two
International Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS), and National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
packages and the first Minor Works (MW) package. This documentation will be made available
for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the
PMU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of
the proceeds of the Loan and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PMU in
coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account
denominated in US dollars for the PMU. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will
be US$1.0 million. However, during the initial stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$0.4
million will be deposited in the Special Account. When the aggregate amount of disbursement
realizes US$5.0 million, the amount deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the
full authorized allocation of US$1.0 million. The minimum amount of each application should
be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the
PMU on a monthly basis or when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever comes first. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.



80
Table A: Project Costsa" by Procurement Arrangements
TOTAL PROJECT
(In US$ Million)
Expenditure Category                                  Procurement Method                               Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB             NCB             Other   N.B.F.T'
Civil Works                                  3.5             0.5             0.1                                4.0
(2.5)           (0.3)          (0.0)                               (2.8)
Goods:
Medical Equipment                       10.9                             0.2c                              11.1
(7.9)                           (0.0)                              (7.9)
Other Equipment/Goods                    6.3                             2.4 c                              8.7
(5.1)                          (2.0)                               (7.1)
Technical Services                           0.7                             3.1 c                              3.8
._________________________                  (0.5)                           (2.4)                              (3.1)
Technical Assistance                                                         6.6d                               6.6
(6.0)                              (6.0)
Training                                                                    2.1I                                2.1
(2.1)                              (2.1)
Recurrent Costs                                                              0.0             3.6                3.6
(0.0)           (0.0)              (0.0)
Total                                  21.4              0.5            14.5             3.6               39.9
(16.0)           (0.3)         (12.7)            (0.0)             (29.0)
a/ Numbers may not add up due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
b/ Non-Bank financed.
c/ Prudent National Shopping (aggregate US$530,000) of less than US$50,000 per contract; International Shopping (aggregate
US$1,940,000) of less than US$300,000 per contract; Direct Contracting (aggregate US$3.29 million) for pharmaceutical
incineration/disposal, and proprietary items for reasons of compatibility and standardization. Technical services category refers to the
two contracts for pharmatceutical disposal ($0.7 million (ICB) for consolidation/sorting and transport; and $3.1 million (DC) for
incineration and disposal of fly ash).
d/ Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
e/ Includes training by QCBS and US$113,000 stand-alone based on agreed program.



81
Table Al: Procurement Plan
Goods and Consultant Services
1.                   2.          3.           4.          5.               6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description             Type       Number of  Estimated  Procureme    Prepare   Invitation    Award           Contract
slices/items    cost4    nt Method5  Tendering    to Bid       Contract   Completion
/
Sub-
_________________________  __________ packages3
I Civil Works
Rehabilitation of 2 small group  CW           1         0.27        NCB        June 00      Aug. 00     Oct. 00      June 01
practices offices
Pilot Hospital Rehabilitation   CW            1         3.48         ICB       Jan. 00      Apr. 00     July 00      Dec. 01
(Tables 4,5,6) and I large group
practice office (Table 2)1
Cardio Unit Upgrade (Zagreb)    CW            1         .16          NCB       Jan. 00      Apr. 00     June 00      Oct. 00
NIPH: Office Refurbishment       CW           1         0.07         NCB       Mar. 01      May 01      June 01      Sept. 01
Systemwide Initiatives          CW            1         0.04         MW        Mar. 00      May 00      June 00     Nov. 00
PMU Office Rehabilitation       CW            I         0.02         MW        Dec. 99      Feb. 00     April 00     July 00
Subtotal (rounded)              CW                      4.0
II Goods
Medical Equipment Packages        G            1          2.1         ICB      Jan. 00      Mar. 00     May 00       Sept. 00
for NIPH Pilot/Day Surgery
Koprivnica Pilot Hospital -       G            1          0.28         IS      Jan. 00      Mar. 00     May 00       Sept. 00
General Services EQ                                                                                _
Koprivnica Pilot Hospital -       G            1          0.21         IS      Mar. 00      June 00     Aug. 00      Dec. 00
Community Care MEQ2                                                                                    I
Home Care Vehicles                G            1          0.28         IS      June 00      August 00   Sept. 00     Nov. 00
Cardio Unit MEQ - Zagreb5         G            1          8.88        ICB      Apr. 00      July 00     Sept. 00     March 0
' Package would include rehabilitation work in Koprivnica Hospital (US$2.8 million), as well as one large primary health center (US$.68 million) adjacent to the
hospital.
2 Includes hospice, respite, home care and ambulatory services.



82
1.             1    2.   1       3.    |   4-    1    5.       1         6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description'           Type      Number of Estimated  Procureme    Prepare   Invitation    Award           Contract
slices/items    cost4    nt Methods  Tendering    to Bid     Contract  Completion
/
Sub-
packages3
PHC Pilot Office Equipment       G            1         0.06         is      March 00   April 00    June 00       Sept. 00
PHC Pilot Doc. Ctr. /Health      G            2         0.06         IS      Mar. 00     May 00      June 00      Aug. 00
Promotion Library/Materials
PHC/Hospital Day Surgery         G            5         0.25        NS       Mar. 00     May 00      July 00      Aug. 00
Pilot Furniture
Hospital Pilot Furniture/Media   G            1         0.04         IS      Jan. 00     Mar. 00     May 00       July 00
EQ
Health Promotion Unit - Office   G            2         0.04         NS      Mar. 00     Apr. 00     June 00      July 00
EQ
Cardio Pilot Telecom EQ          G            1         3.17        ICB      July 00     Oct. 00     Dec. 00      Feb.01
Pharma. Public Info. Materials   G            2         0.28         IS      July 00     Sept. 00    Dec. 00      Feb. 01
PR Materials (Pilot hospital,    G            1         0.16         IS      Oct. 00     Nov. 00     Jan. 01     Mar. 01
day surgery and cardio units)
Drug Use Protocols - PR          G            1         0.03         NS      Oct. 00     Nov. 00     Jan. 01      Mar. 01
Materials
Department of Financing,         G            1         0.02         NS      June 00     Aug. 00     Sept. 00     Nov. 00
Planning, and Quality Control,
MOH
PMU Office EQ/Materials          G            1         0.18         IS      Dec. 99     Jan. 00     Feb. 00      April 00
Subtotal                       Goods                    16.0
III. Consultant Services and Training
Community Health Plan            CS           1         0.04         IC      Dec. 99     Feb. 00     April 00     Dec. 00
Social Assessment                CS           I         0.08         IC      Jan. 00     Feb. 00     Apr. 00      Oct. 00
PHC Demonstration Pilot          CS           1         0.27       QCBS    Jan. 00       Mar. 00     May 00       Dec. 00
PHC Integrated Health Services   CS           1          0.8       QCBS    Jan. 00       Mar. 00     May 00       Dec. 00
Pilot (Finance)             I                       I          I            I _
3 Debra and Dubrava Hospitals - cardio units.



83
1.                   2.          3.           4.          5.               6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description'            Typei     Number of  Estimated  Procureme    Prepare   Invitation    Award            Contract
slices/items    cost4    nt Methods  Tendering    to Bid      Contract   Completion
I
Sub-
packages3
Hospital Pilot Site Assessments  CS            1          0.08        FXB      Jan. 00      March 00    April 00    July 00
- Facility Upgrade/Day Surgery
Hospital Pilot                   CS            1          0.76       QCBS      Mar. 00      May 00      July 00     June 01
Redesign/Mgt./Contracts
Hospital Day Surgery             CS            1         0.44        QCBS      June 00      Sept. 00    Nov. 00     June 01
Community Care - AAC             CS            1          0.51       QCBS      Mar. 00      May 00      July 00     June 01
Cardio: Protocols/Heart Care     CS            1          0.80       QCBS      Mar. 00      May 00      Jan.01      Sept. 01
Program
Cardio: Public Information TV    CS            1          .36        QCBS      Jan. 01      March 01    May 01      June 02
spots
Pharmaceutical Price             CS            1          0.03        FXB      Jan. 00      Feb. 00     Mar. 00     June 00
Verification                                               .
Public Health TA/TR/Survey       CS            1          0.98       QCBS      June 00      Aug. 00     Oct. 00     Dec. 01
IT: Design/lmplement System      CS            1          1.06       QCBS      Jan. 00      April 00    June 00     Dec. 00
Initiative4
Pharmaceutical                   CS            1          1.32       QCBS      Mar. 00      May 00      July 00     Mar. 01
Rationalization/Education/
-Training/Drug Use Protocols.
Dept. of Health Policy, MOH      CS            I         0.10        .QCBS
PMU Local Consultants             CS           6          0.84         IC      Jan. 00   Through life of project
PMU Staff Training               TR          N/A         0.11        Other    Series of training sessions over project life
Project Audit                     CS           1          0.13        LCS      July 00      Aug. 00     Oct. 00      Feb.01
end of each fiscal year
Subtotal                     TA/TR                     8.7
4 Includes pilot information system.



84
IV. Services Contracts
IT EQ - Information System                Goods               1               1.1        ICB - 2 stages   Jan. 00             April 00         June 00          Sept. 00
Hardware/Software                           (IT)              2              0.14               IS
3             0.07               NS
3             0.07               DC
IT EQ - National                          Goods               1              2.0         ICB -2 stages   Jan. 01              April 01         June 01          Sept. 01
Clearinghouse                               (IT)                              .25               IS
Hardware/Software                                                            .12               NS
.12              DC
Pharm. Disposal -                           TS                1              0.74              ICB           April 00         May 00           May 00           Sept. 00
Consolidation/sorting/transport                                                                           _
Pharm. Disposal -Incineration               TS                1              3.1               DC            June 00                                            Mar. 01
and Final Disposition
Subtotal                                 Services                            7.7
IV Recurrent Costs (Non-Bank financed)                                             _
0 & M  Equipment                           Other          Various            3.28             Other          Series of small procurements throughout the life of the
project.
Incremental Staff Salaries                 Other          Various            0.35             Other          Series of small procurements throughout the life of the
(NIPH)                                                                                                       project.
Subtotal Recurrent Costs                                                     3.6        _
Total   L              l              l|_                     39-9_     |       ____-__
Name of Package or contract.
2 CW for civil works; G for goods; CS for consulting services.
Number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package.
4 Expressed in US$ '000.
5 ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for major civil works), MW (for minor works), FA (for force account), QBCS (for quality and cost based selection of consultant firms), CM (for
commercial practices based selection of consultant firms), FXB (for fixed budget selection of consultant firms, LCS (for least cost selection of consultant firms), SS (for sole-
sourcing of firms or individuals), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



85
Table Bi: Summary of Procurement Activities
ICB                        NCB                 MW                                Percentage of Credit amount
Civil Works                                                                                                                 subject to prior review
Procurement thresholds               $300,000            Less than $300,000      Less than $50,000
Aggregates                          $3,500,000                    $500,000       $60,000
Prior review                      All packages             First 2 packages     First package
Goods'                                    ICB                           IS                   NS            Other Methods
Procurement thresholds               $300,000            Less than $300,000            Less than
$50,000
Aggregate                          $17,990,000                  $1,940,000             $530,000          $3,290,000
Prior Review                              All               First 2 packages     First 2 packages               All                  100%
Consultants                             QCBS                       Individual               LCS            Other Methods
Aggregates                          $7,400,000                    $885,000              $70,000           $110,0006                  100%
Prior Review                All TORs, RFPs, evaluation reports and contract
Ex post Review             One in five contracts. In-depth review of procurement activities during supervision missions. Yearly financial audits by acceptable firm
selected competitively.
Brief statement
The Ministry of Health will be the implementing agency for the Project. Although there is an-on-going Bank-financed health project, the implementing agency is the Croatia Health
Insurance Institute (CIHI), and the Ministry of Health has had minimal exposure to implementing an internationally financed project, except for oversight of the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) for the ongoing project. The procurement activities under the current health project have been carried out by staff of CIHI. Therefore, procurement officer (plus an
additional procurement expert to be hired during peak period for contract preparation) and financial officer would need to be recruited for this proposed project, and provided with
appropriate training. However, the Project Implementation Officer for the current project is experienced now in project management, and would be eligible for management of this
proposed project.
5 Includes technical services contracts (the two pharmaceutical waste disposal contracts).
6 Fixed budget contracts.



86
EXISTING PMU CAPACITY
The ongoing Health Project does not have a PMU. The Project is managed by a Project Implementation Officer and his assistant. The procurement and financial management aspects
of the project are handled by staff in the CIHI (a financial officer, and two procurement officers). Despite the paucity of staff, however, this project has implemented smoothly,
largely as a result of the strong management skills of the Project Implementation Officer.
PROPOSED PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT.
The MOH will hire five experienced full time staff to support the PMU. The legislative framework in Croatia to support commercial procurement practices has been developed. Due
to the fact that some procurement capacity exists in other PMUs supported by the Bank, there is capacity to procure goods and services according to WB guidelines. It is therefore
recommended that the PMU advertise for an individual with the appropriate skills and background. To handle the peak periods of procurement work, an additional short-term
procurement expert is called for in the project proposal.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
Completed in 1999.                                                                  negotiations
Yes   0     No X
Estimated date of Project Launch  Estimated date of publication of    Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference for
Workshop                         General Procurement Notice       subject to mandatory SPN in       Goods                       Works, if applicable
Development Business
January 2000                             August 15,1999                Yes XXX       No  O          Yes x   No                   Yes   O       No   X
Retroactive financing
Yes X     No 0        Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The Bank financed PMU, which will include procurement officers with experience in Bank procurement procedures, will
oversee all procurement under the project. The PMU will maintain a complete procurement file for all components, and shall manage its Special Account. Evaluation committees
will be established upon commencement of procurement activities. Periodic supervision missions will review PMU financial records.
Co-financing: N/A
4 F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project: Health System        Name: Gyorgy Novotny                     Phone: 565-9541 (Budapest)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement.
The Field Office will provide guidance, as needed, to the PMU staff concerning procurement guidelines.



87
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
CPAR has been completed, and draft has been sent to the country for review and comment.    negotiations
The Procurement Law was enacted in December 1997, and became effective March 1998.   Yes   0      No X



88
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$           Financing Percentage
I. Civil Works                       2,517,750                       70%
l. Goods                            13,535,190          100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory); and 78% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Technical Services for Part C of the  2,823,750                    78%
'roject (Pharmaceutical waste disposal)
[. Consultants' Services (including  7,224,210                       100%
auditing) and Training
5. Front End Fee                       290,000
6. Unallocated                       2,609,100
29,000,000
TOTAL



89
ANNEX 6 (coontinued)
Assessment of the Capacity of the
Project Management Unit
General Information and Summary:
1.1   Date of Report: May 14, 1999.
1.2   Basis of the Report:
Croatia Public Procurement Law (PPL), Croatia Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) and discussion held in Zagreb with representatives of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Project Management Unit (PMU).
1.3   Scope of the Review: The capacity review includes the assessment of the capacity of the
agency to carry out the different phases of the procurement cycle. It addresses the legal
aspect; procurement cycle management; organizations and functions; support and control
systems; record keeping; staffing; general procurement environment; general risk
assessment.
2.    Project Description
Project Component 1: Integrated Health Services
A. Piloting acute hospital care restructuring will encompass two distinct but coordinated
activities.
* One is the refinement and implementation of a strategy for planning the restructuring of acute
hospital care and complementary care services. This planning process for restructuring will be
applied first in the city of Koprivnica. The pilots in the hospital sector would demonstrate, for a
carefully chosen sample of medical programs and hospital activities, how the process of
achieving more clinically appropriate and effective use of hospital resources could begin.
* The second activity is in Koprivnica and surrounding area, and includes a package of
demonstration programs as alternative levels of care: day surgery, day hospitals, hospice/respite
beds, and home care service (for people who might otherwise have required hospital care), as
well as contracting out of hospital cleaning, catering and laundry services.
B. Primary health care (PHC) development will develop pilots in Koprivnica for small and
large group practices. For some large group practices, the modified capitation arrangements will
later be extended to cover the costs of inpatient hospital care within certain categories and/or
subject to limits.  Following an evaluation of the pilots, plans will be developed and
implemented to begin a national extension of lessons and approaches derived from successful
pilots.
C. National health care demonstration program for heart disease would include equipping
two cardiac diagnostic centers to provide sophisticated secondary prevention services as well as



90
developing and equipping a larger number of emergency care units. The program would be
further supported and by the completion of improvements within the system of emergency
medical services.
Project Component 2: Public Health
A. Health monitoring, data analysis, data reporting, and program evaluation
*  A regular behavioral surveillance system will be established
*  A comprehensive population-base health survey including biochemical and physiologic
measurements will occur every four to five years
*  Annual reports on data collected for noncommunicable diseases (NCD), health risk behavior,
and other related issues will be developed.
*  Human resource capacity development in NCD epidemiology will be developed through
long-term and local training.
B. Health Promotion Infrastructure
*  A unit will be established within the National Institute of Public Health to be responsible for
health promotion activities. It will coordinate the prevention efforts necessary for
component IC, as well.
* National health planning and strategy development, focusing on CVD.
*  Health promotion training will be formalized at the School of Public Health in Zagreb.
*  Physicians, local health departments, and other providers will be trained in health promotion.
*  A strong media advocacy campaign will be developed, implemented and evaluated.
Project Component 3: Pharmaceuticals
Disposal of unusable or outdated pharmaceutical materials, donated during the period of war,
which now represent a hazard to people and the environment.
Project Component 4: System-Wide Initiatives
The System-Wide Initiatives will strengthen systems in ways that support the first three
components and that also provide essential building blocks for regulatory, governance and
management initiatives within this component.
A. Support will be provided for new management information systems that integrate clinical,
administrative, and financial information.
B. A new system will be developed for hospitals to collect patient-level data, and a similar
system for PHC providers. A national inventory of all hospital facilities will also be
established. Current data bases and the proposed new patient-level collections will be used
to construct measures of health outcomes and to analyze their implications. Clinical protocols
that incorporate pharmaceutical protocols will be adopted or developed.
,C. The four preceding activities will support the development of formal standards for facilities
and guidelines for care.



91
F. To manage and take responsibility for these activities as well as to provide related advice to
policy makers, a Department of Financing, Planning and Quality Assurance will be
established in the Ministry of Health. Capacity building will include the development of
inter-related simulation models for health revenues and expenditures.
H. Training of practice managers will create a new cadre of experts to provide administrative
and managerial support for PHC groups. In addition, to build institutional capacity for the
analysis of health financing, policy and management, support would be provided for short-
term training, a center for training and dissemination, international institutional partnerships,
and scholarships for study abroad.
I. Studies will examine: revenue issues such as the structure of participation payments,
potential revenue from alternative tax bases, ways to increase the collections rate for
insurance contributions; and alternative approaches to drug pricing and financing, and their
links to new provider payment systems.
Project Component 5: Project Management
The Project Management Component through the establishment of the Project Management Unit
(PMU) will be responsible for: implementing the Project; monitoring progress of the four
primary components; ensuring the proper sequencing of studies, pilots and expansion activities;
and maintaining all required records and management systems.
3. Public Procurement System (based on CPAR findings)
3.1   Country Procurement Assessment Review: a CPAR, conducted in November 1998,
rated Croatia as an average risk country from the procurement point of view. The Public
Procurement system of Croatia is based on the Law on Procurement of Goods, Services
and Works (PPL), passed by Parliament in December 1997, which follows the
UTNCITRAL model. The CPAR has identified the following strengths and weaknesses of
the procurement system:
*  Main Strengths: Under the PPL (i) procurement function is decentralized; (ii)
competition is the default method; (iii) treatment of local and foreign participants is equal
(except for domestic preference); (iv) joint procurement is conducted for joint needs to
achieve economies of scale; (v) a Public Procurement Administration (PPA) was
established in MOF to provide policy advice and institutional support; (vi) appropriate
sanctions are stipulated for violators of the Law; (vii) internal controls are adequate.
*  Main Weaknesses: (i) no implementation guidelines or standard bidding documents,
which leads to an inconsistent application of the law; (ii) PPA lacks capacity to
implement all its functions under the PPL; (iii) absence of systematic training programs
to enhance the capacity of the procurement staff both at the central and procurement
entities level; (iii) not enough delegation by PPA of certain procurement decisions (i.e., to
use other factors in addition to price in the evaluation process); (iv) anti-competitive
practices (e.g., collusion).
3.2   Action Plan: The CPAR recommends an Action Plan whose main objectives are to: (i)
improve the procurement legislation based on lessons from experience; (ii) ensure clarity



92
and consistency in the implementation of the law; (iii) create a pool of highly qualified
procurement specialists at PPA and Procurement Entities level; (iv) ensure increased
competition through a wide private participation in public procurement; (v) start a career
stream in procurement; (vi) ensure that the Bank's procurement procedures are well
understood by the new PMUs.
4.    General Procurement Environment.
Professionals involved in procurement are respected. Pay levels are above the country's
average, but lower than the private sector's salaries for similar positions. It is not difficult
to recruit qualified staff, as public sector jobs are still in demand, given the security
attached to them. The procurement entities are fully in charge of the procurement
process. Law forbids discretionary decisions by Government officials. The decision of
the procurement agency can be overridden only by the Procurement Administration in the
Ministry of Finance.
411   Public Sector Assessment The Public Procurement Law is based on the UNCITRAL
model. It provides for competitive procurement and is generally consistent with the basic
principles of WB rules, i.e., economy, efficiency and clarity. The Law passed by the
Parliament in December 1997 is one of the series of laws having relevance to
procurement (See Attachment 1). Application and meeting of all requirements of the PPL
is compulsory for the public sector, including the ministries, local governments, public
bodies and foundations using public subsidies.
41.2.  Private Sector Assessment. In spite of the difficulties brought about by the transition
and the war, the private sector is steadily growing - having the highest contribution in
trade, construction and tourism and the lowest in industry and utilities.
Private sector practices vary according to the size of the enterprise and type of business,
but irrespective of this, private enterprises are concerned about economy and efficiency.
Therefore, commercial practices in the private sector are usually competitive ones,
shopping being the preferred method. Sole source is used when goods are sold under
license or standardization is a factor or in case of satisfactory long term supplier-
purchaser relationship.
Isolated cases of improper trade practices and abuse of monopolistic power exist. The
legal and institutional framework to address these issues has been created (Anti Trust
Agency);
Private sector views on the PPL are positive as the law establishes fair and transparent
procedures for their participation in the public sector procurement. However, concerns on
the implementation of the law have been raised, mostly related to the lack of standard
documents and guidelines for their preparation.



93
5.    Procurement Implementation Arrangements
5.1  Implementing agency (PMU) is established by the Ministry of Health, as an independent
legal entity. The PMU consists of five persons (PMU Director, Program Director, Procurement
Officer, Financial Officer, and an Assistant), with additional short term procurement specialist
being hired for peak work periods. As needed, technical working groups and experts will be
employed from time to time. All staff of the PMU will possess requisite skills, including fluency
in English. The PMU Director and some of the staff have experience with WB financed projects.
5.2   Legal Aspects The PMU's operation is based on a contract with the Ministry of Health.
Procurement financed by the World Bank (WB) loan is conducted according to the WB
procurement rules, and procurement financed solely by local funds is accomplished according to
the PPL. As the contracting party is the MOH, no additional Government clearances are needed
before the contract can be made effective.
5.3 Procurement capacity. The PMU Director, as well as the members of the technical
working group and experts, have already participated in the implementation of a WB financed
project (Croatia Health Project). They have the necessary experience to manage the procurement
process. The office is well staffed and computerized, and all data are recorded with use of
sophisticated software. Periodic reports on the use of funds are being prepared and submitted to
the central authority and the World Bank.
5.4   Control System. The PMU is subject to regular audits by the State Audit Office (SAO),
an independent agency reporting directly to the Parliament. SAO's recommendations are
mandatory. According to the audit, the 1998 activity of the PMI corresponded to the Croatian
Regulation in force. In the Health System Project, an independent, private auditor will prepare
the financial/procurement audit according to the Bank's auditing requirements.
6.   Recommendations
The newly recruited procurement and IT procurement experts should be trained by Loan
Effectiveness. Further on-the-job training will be necessary, and is planned for in the cost
estimates.
7. Suggested Threshold for Prior Review
The agency is rated "average risk". Proposed prior review thresholds are on the safe side but
reflecting the experience of the PMU with Bank Procurement. The following thresholds are
proposed for prior review for each implementation agency:
7.1   Prior review threshold for the procurement of goods and works shall be $300,000 or
above, for consulting firms over $100,000, and all individual consultants over $50,000,
irrespective of threshold. TORs and short lists for all consulting contracts will be approved by
the Bank.
7.2   First two NCB and International Shopping contracts and the first Minor Works contract
shall be subject to WB prior review.



94
Attachment 1
A - Legal Framework
Al - GENERAL FEATURES
1. What is the legal corporate status of this agency? (i.e. government departments, a state.corporation, a parastatal enterprise). Who are the
owners? Do the national laws and regulations apply to this agency? In this case refer to existing CPAR for analysis of the legal system.
1.1 The Implementing Agency, the Project Management Unit (PMU) was established by the Ministry of Health (MOH) as an independent legal entity
in 1999.
1.2. National laws and regulations related to procurement including Public Procurement Law (PPL) apply to the agency.
1.3. Croatia CPAR was conducted in November 1998 and characterized Croatia legal system as comprehensive, clear and generally consistent, as
explained in paragraph 3 below.
2. If-not, does the agency have its own regulations? Describe.
No.
3. Is the system clear, comprehensive and consistent? Does it cover all essential aspects with no unduly complicated, unnecessary, conflicting or
outdated regulations and are rules found in various distinct sources or within a well-coordinated framework?
The system is comprehensive, clear and generally consistent and cover all the essential aspects of procurement.
Laws and regulations:
The legal system of the Republic of Croatia (ROC) is a civil law system with its roots in the Napoleon Civil Code and which evolved mainly under
the influence of the Austrian and German legal systems. Croatia's legal system is based on the Constitution of December 1990, as amended in 1992.
Some of the laws, most relevant to procurement, are:
*    Public Procurement Law, December 1997
*    Law on Contracts (Obligations) of 1994 amended 1996
*    Trade Law, 1996
*     Law on Concessions, 1990
*    Customs Law of 1991, amended 92,03,94; currently being revised.
*    Law on Audit, 1992
*    Foreign Exchange Law, 1993
*    Value Added Tax Law, 1995
*    The Employment of Foreign Nationals Act, 1992/93/94
*    Insurance Law, 1997
*    Law on Protection of Competition, 1995



95
*     Labor Law, 1996
*     Law on Commercial Companies, December 1993
*    Law on Standards of 1996,
*    Law on settlements of disputes of 1991
*     Law on Foreign Credits and Loans, May 1996
*     Law on Execution State Budget for 1999 (the Law is changed annually)
Laws are being updated to unify different regulations and provisions across the legal system and to align them to international standards and practices.
4. Is the hierarchy of the sources of procurement rules well established?
Yes. Companies' procurement is governed by a whole system of general and specific laws of which the most relevant are the ones mentioned under the
para 3 above. In addition, procurement of public entities is governed by the Law on Procurement of Goods, Services and Works (hereafter called PPL for
Public Procurement Law), passed by Parliament on December 19, 1997 and effective in March 1998. The PPL replaces the Procurement Decrees of
1995, 1996 and 1997. The PPL applies to central government entities, bodies of local government, any entity owned by the State, any agency using
public funds and budgetary guarantees. The law also applies to entities using financing from non-budgetary funds such as the pension fund, health and
insurance fund, employment fund, etc. The PPL is not applicable to procurement under international agreements, grant-funded procurement,
procurement relating to defense and national security, and for urgent rehabilitation of damages caused by natural disasters and emergencies.
5. Does the system allow/ facilitate the introduction of new and innovative techniques and contracting practices without compromising basic
principles?
Yes, the system allows for the introduction of new and innovative techniques. For example although special contractual arrangements (like leasing,
factoring) are not specified as such in the Law on Contracts, such contracts are feasible under the said law.
6. Are there rules/ procedures regarding bidder suspension and debarment?
The PPL provides for suspension of a bidder on the grounds of corruption and dumping practices. The procedure for suspension and debarment is
initiated by a procuring entity and approved by the Public Procurement Administration (PPA).
7. Are there primary/ secondary boycotts? (Specify)
There is no reference to primary or secondary boycotts, except to meet the obligations under Chapter VII of the UN resolution.
8. Are there procedures for the settlement of contractual disputes? Describe.
Croatia is a signatory of important international conventions and protocols on arbitration, including the New York Convention on the Recognition and
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958. The Croatian Chamber of Economy operates a Court of Arbitration, which applies the UNCITRAL
rules. The contractual parties are free to include arbitration in their contracts. In Croatia, foreign arbitral awards are considered at par with the domestic
ones. The arbitration provisions now found in different laws are being assembled in one Unified Arbitration Code.
A2 - BASIS OF TRANSPARENCY
1. Is there a legal or regulatory requirement for public disclosure of procurement legal texts?
All procurement legal texts are public. In the civil legal system, the publication of laws, decrees, Government Decisions in the Official Gazette is a
precondition for their effectiveness.
2. Are there mandatory requirements for maintaining written records of procurement? Are they available to the general public?



96
According to article I I of the PPL the procuring entitiy ha to maintain fo!!owing records'
(i)    brief description of goods services and works;
(ii)   names and addresses of bidders;
(iii)  information on the qualifications of bidders;
(iv)   price or criteria for determining the price and other terms and conditions;
(v)    summary of bid evaluation and comparison, including application of domestic preference;
(vi)   statement relating to rejection of all tenders and reasons thereof;
(vii)  information relating to a proposal, bid or quotation rejected because of corrupt or fraudulent practice;
(viii)  grounds and circumstances on which a procurement entity used a procurement method other than public tendering;
(ix)   grounds for limiting tendering to domestic bidders;
(x)    statement on conducting international tendering without national preference.
After the tender (whether or not it resulted in a contract), information under para (i) to (vi) above can be made available to those submitted a
tender upon request.
3. Are requirements for advertisement of contracting opportunities adequate? Is the country's national gazette published in a timely fashion? Is
it available to the general public?
Yes. According to the PPL, in case the estimated value of a contract exceeds HRK 400,000.00 (four hundred thousand) - approximately US$65,000.00
(sixty five thousand) - all invitations to pre-qualify and tender must be published, once or several times, in domestic daily newspapers or in "Narodne
Novine". The "Narodne Novine", which is the official gazette of the ROC, issued on a weekly basis. It is available to the general public both in hard
copy and on INTERNET. The notices may also be announced on INTERNET.
4. Are requirements regarding public bid opening, if any, appropriate?
Yes. The bid opening procedures are transparent. The tenders are opened on the bid submission deadline and at the place specified in the tender
documents in the presence of the bidders or their representatives authorized in writing. At the bid opening, the name and bid price of each tender are
announced and recorded in the minutes of bid opening. Bidders who are not present at the bid opening may request the information to be communicated
to them.
5. Are negotiations after bid opening or award selection generally forbidden?
The procurement law does not provide for negotiated procurement and prohibits negotiations between the procuring entity and the selected bidder.
6. Do rules on negotiated procurement, if any, provide the basis for a fair and transparent process?
Negotiated procurement is accepted: (i) in case of sole source, provided that the sole source was approved by the PPA and (ii) when consultanfs selection
is based on the technical merit only. In this latter case, the PPL describes in detail the selection process. A minimum threshold is set for the technical
proposals, the consultant with the best proposal is invited for negotiations; if they fail, negotiations are conducted with the consultant who submitted the
second best proposal and so on1. All consultants who submitted proposals are informed about the outcome.
7. Are conditions for use of various procurement methods clearly established and is there an explicit requirement that open competitive bidding
is the preferred or default method?
In case of goods and works, the open competitive bidding is a default method. Other methods including linited bidding, request for quotations and direct
contracting are preferred.



97
For services, the PPL provides for tendering with "pre-qualification", tendering upon invitation, and direct contracting. For the first two methods it also
requires that a procuring entity must publish a notice seeking expression of interest. Conditions for the use of each of these methods are clearly
established in the PPL.
8. Is there a requirement for public notice of contract awards?
Yes, for awards of goods, works or services contracts above HRK 18,000,000 (eighteen million) (USD 3 million.) must be published promptly in the
same way as the related invitation to tender or pre-qualification. In case of consultants' selection with subsequent negotiations, all the participants are
informed about the final outcome of the negotiations. Finally, for any public tendering, any participating bidder is entitled, after the award, to receive a
summary of the evaluation and comparison of proposals (see para 12).
9. Are requirements for bid and contract securities clear and appropriate? Are they required of all bidders?
The PPL clearly states the requirements for bid security. However, it leaves to the procuring entity the decision to require a bid security. In case the
procuring entity decides to ask bidders to submit a bid security, the requirement applies to all bidders. Furthermore, bidding documents should contain
requirements concerning the issuer of the bid security, the form, amount and other principal terms and conditions. A bid security can be forfeited in case:
(i) a bidder withdraws its bid security after bid opening, (ii) if selected for award refuses to sign the contract; or (iii) does not submit a performance
security. A bid security must be returned at its expiry, signing of a contract, cancellation of the bidding process, and withdrawal of a bid prior to the bid
submission deadline. The PPL refers also to performance securities without providing other details.
10. Are qualification requirements for bidders, if any, fair and appropriate for the purpose of the contract?
Qualification requirements related to experience, financial strength, equipment, business reputation, personnel qualifications are well articulated in the
PPL. They can be used for pre and post qualification. The procuring entity may pre-qualify bidders in case of international public tendering as
well as for goods, works and services contracts. The purpose of pre-qualification is to determine whether bidders are qualified to perform the
contract for goods, works and services. The Law stipulates the content of the pre-qualification documents, including the evaluation system
and the clarification procedure. The procuring entity must notify all pre-qualified applicants and make available to them, upon request, the
names of other pre-qualified bidders. The grounds for rejection of other applications can be conveyed to rejected applicants upon request.
Only pre-qualified contractors/suppliers will be invited to submit bids. The procuring entity may require a pre-qualified bidder to
demonstrate his qualifications again.
11. Do requirements for bid examination and evaluation provide the basis for a rational and fair process?
The Law sets the stage for a rational and fair bid examination process.
A tender is considered responsive if it conforms to all requirements set forth in the bidding documents. Minor deviations can be acceptable. Responsive
bids shall be evaluated in accordance with the evaluation criteria in the bidding documents. No other criteria shall be used.
Procedures for bid clarification are also provided in the Law. However, no change in the bid can be made. An unresponsive tender cannot be made
responsive through clarifications. Arithmetical errors that are discovered during examination can be corrected and the bidder notified of the corrections.
The lowest evaluated responsive bidder ("most favorable tender") is post-qualified (if pre-qualification was not used). If it fails to pass post-qualification,
the second lowest tender will be post-qualified.
The process of examination and evaluation is rational and fair.
12. Are summaries of information about public procurement published (e.g. number of bids received, number of contracts awarded, names of
successful bidders)? If so, describe scope and frequency.



98
Aggregate information about public procurement is not published in a systematic way. However, after the end of a bidding process (whether it has
resulted in contract or not) any bidder is entitled to receive information about:
*  goods services and works that were the object of that specific procurement action;
*  names and addresses of the bidders and name of the successful bidder;
*  information related to the qualifications of bidders;
*  the price or the criteria for determining the price;
*  a summary of the evaluation and comparison of proposals
See also para 8 (Notification of award).
13. Does agency hold regular meetings with the business community to discuss procurement issues?
Only a few such meetings have been held by the Chamber of Economy for the benefit of the members of the Chamber. This practice is yet to be
established and will be essential for a transparent and effective public procurement system.
14. Is there a conflict of interest policy in effect? (If so, describe its essential features)
There are no provisions about conflict of interest in the PPL. However, the Law on Obligations and Rights of Government Officials forbids public
officers to get involved in activities, which may create a conflict of interest
15. Are there laws on bribery of officials enforced? Do government bidding documents and contracts contain anti-bribery and anti-corruption
conditions?
The Law of Obligations and Rights of Government Officials, the Public Procurement Law and the Penal Code set the legal framework. Public officials
are thus forbidden to receive any kind of benefit in exchange of use of their official position to influence public decisions. Interventions are punished by
imprisonment from six months to three years. Bribe taking and bribe giving are also forbidden and punished by imprisonment from three months to five
years. The PPL provides for rejection of a bid if a bidder gives or offers bribes to an employee or public officer of a procuring entity, or offers
employment or a gratuity.
Currently there are no standard bidding documents (SBDs) but the intention is to include fraud and anti corruption clauses in the text of the future SBDs.
The Health System Project will use the Bank's SBDs, where the relevant clauses are included.
16. What opportunities are there for discretionary decisions by government officials in the procurement process and preparation of documents?
The legal framework does not allow for discretionary decisions by Government Officials.
A3 - BASIS OF ACCOUNTABILITY OF PROCUREMENT OFFICIALS
1. Are agency employees expected to follow a published code of ethics? If so, describe its basic features.
Yes. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Government Officials refers to an Ethics Commission and Ethics Code.
2. How easy is it for bidders to report bribes by others and solicitation/ extortion of bribes by procurement officials?
Reporting bribes is not difficult - since the legal and institutional systems to address this issue is in place.
3. Do bidders have adequate access to administrative or judicial review/ appeal?
In case a bidder is dissatisfied with the procurement process, it may complain to the procuring entity within three days after receiving the written notice
on the selection of the successful bidder. A copy of the complaint shall be sent to the PPA. The complaint filed within the three days shall suspend the
conclusion of contract. The procuring entity must respond within 8 days along with a copy to the PPA. In case the procuring entity's response is negative,
the bidder can file a written complaint with the PPA within three days following the expiry of the 8 day limit during which the procuring entity is obliged



99
to resolve the issue. The PPA shall resolve the complaint within 15 days, along with a copy to the State Audit Office. If not satisfied with the PPA
resolution, the bidder has the right to appeal to the Administrative Court.
4. Are there measures/ initiatives to curb/ control corruption, e.g. anti-corruption statutes and/ or bodies, whistle-blower statutes, comprehensive
reforms of the civil service/ judiciary, regional initiatives, provisions in the criminal law, anti-bribery provisions, etc.? If so, describe.
The legal framework for combating corruption is described in A2/1 5. In addition, recent declarations by high public officials point out to the
Government's determination to set corruption control high on the agenda.
B - Procurement Cycle Management
Bi - PROCUREMENT PLANNING
1. Are procurement plans prepared ahead of time as a norm?
Yes, For public procurement, yearly procurement plans are prepared as a norm.
2. Are these plans detailed enough and realistic compared with past history?
Yes, it has to be detailed and realistic on the base of the yearly budget
personnel?
The PMU is staffed with a Procurement Officer, as well as short-term procurement specialist, as needed during the peak work periods. As necessary,
additional technical experts can be hired. The PMU Director has good knowledge and experience in WB procurement.
6. Is overall planning for complex goods, works and other contracts done in sufficient detail to produce realistic project definition, achievable
completion schedules and accurate cost estimates?
Generally yes.
7. Is the early technical and financial planning well coordinated so that projects are fully funded when work needs to begin, based on accurate
cost estimates?
Yes, the early technical antid financial planning must be well coordinated because this is the base for yearly budget granted for the project.
8. Are appropriate methodologies used to plan multiple inter-related procurement activities on large projects (e.g. the critical path method)?
Yes, plans for inter-related procurement activities in case of large projects are always coordinated and approved by authorities.
9. Are project components appropriately packaged for procurement purposes?
Yes.
10. Are completion schedules generally met for goods, works and consultant services contracts? If not, what is the major cause for slippage? Is
sufficient time generally allowed for external reviews! clearances?
Goods and consultants contracts are generally completed on time. (No experience in works contracts).
11. Do procurement units regularly conduct market surveys to update their knowledge of prevailing prices for goods, works and services?



100
Cost is usually based on past experience and observation of the market trends.
12. Are procedures and methodologies for planning procurement of recurrent items (i.e. inventory control, forecasting of future requirements,
classirication, coding, accounting/ financial management, spare parts management, and delivery systems) adequate?
Yes, there is an established system for this.
13. In the case of Bank-financed projects, is the agreed procurement plan generally adhered to?
Yes, although some delay may occur, especially at the beginning of the project.
B2 - PROCUREMENT CYCLE
1. Is the duration of different phases acceptable?
The PPL specifies minimum time between various steps of the procurement process:
*  Preparation minimum 15 days (for ICB minimum 45);
*  Evaluation not time-specified;
*  All bidders are informed of the results within 8 days after the award;
*  Time allowed for protests 3 to 8 days for the procurement agency and 15 days for the PPA;
*  Execution of contract after the award: 8 but not later than30 days.
The actual duration (from advertising to award) is from 30 to 65 days depending on the complexity of the procurement action.
2. Who has to intervene and approve different steps and what is the value added by each intervention? Are there any opportunities for
simplification, collapsing or eliminating steps? Establish a typical procurement cycle from bid advertisement to award.
The approval procedures are quite straightforward and expeditious; the commission (committee) established for conducting the bidding process is in full
charge from advertising until the contract is awarded.
A typical procurement cycle of public procurement for goods/works is:
*  Bid advertisement to bid submission: 4 weeks
*  Evaluation of bids: 2 weeks
* Time allowed for protests: 3 -8 days
* Contracting: I week
B3 - BIDDING DOCUMENTS
1. Does the agency have capable staff for preparation of bidding documents?
Yes, in cases where complex technical specification has to be worked out, experts can be hired.
2. Is it familiar with Bank procurement policies and guidelines and with the SBDs to be used in this project?
The PMU Director is fully familiar with the Bank procurement process and SBDs, but MOH is not familiar with WB procurement rules.
3. What is the general quality of documentation produced by the agency? Identify improvements needed.
In case of public procurement, the bidding documents are in general satisfactory although deficiencies are sometimes apparent because of lack of
standard bidding documents. For improvements, the qualification criteria need to be better defined, evaluation needs to be strengthened when factors
other than price are used and the scope of the merit point system should be limited. Draft contract should be made part of the bidding documents. During
the implementation of Health System Project the Bank's SBDs will be used.



101
4. General quality of technical specifications and drawings, clarity, neutrality, accuracy (including schedules of requirements) and availability
or access to qualified staff or professional services in this area.
Qualified staff are available in Croatia.
5. Do standard documents exist for goods, works and consultants contract? List. Are other international contract formats used? If so, identify.
There are no standard documents for goods, works or consultants. Bidding documents and contracts are being prepared in house, based on experience. No
standard contract formats are used. Contracts are based generally on the Law on Contracts (Obligations), which provides the essential Conditions of
Contract.
6. Are these documents, if any, readily adaptable to specific contract situations (i.e. by modifications made through a Bid Data Sheet, Special
Conditions of Contract or similar?)
There are no standard documents.
7. Are there separate documents for international and national competitive bidding not financed by the Bank?
No.
8. Do Instructions to Bidders (ITBs) contain all information necessary to prepare responsive bids and clearly understand evaluation criteria
and their method of application?
Not always; in particular, the qualification criteria should be better defined. For evaluation, the merit point system is preferred, quantification of non-pric
factors is not used.
9. Do they contain other necessary information, such as eligibility requirements, basis of bid, language and currency of bids, common currency
for purposes of evaluation, source and date of the exchange rate, etc.? Are sample forms and other appropriate sections of the documents
provided?
PPL provides most of this information. No sample forms are attached.
10. Are bidders required to provide bid security in an appropriate amount as a condition of responsiveness of their bid?
Bid security is used in Croatia mostly in ICB tendering.
11. Is pre- or post-qualification provided for?
PPL provides for both post-qualification and pre-qualification. According to the Law, pre-qualification may be used for contracts of goods, works and
services contracts. Complex consulting contracts are also subject to "pre-qualification" as a prelude to the preparation of the short list.
12. Are qualification criteria appropriate and clearly described?
The qualification criteria are appropriate. According to the law bidders have to demonstrate:
*  that they possess the necessary professional qualifications and knowledge, financial strength, equipment and other physical facilities, reliability,
experience, business reputation and qualified personnel;
* that they have fulfilled their obligations for contracts entered under the PPL within the last three years prior to new tendering;
* Their directors have not been convicted for criminal economic offenses within the last five years.
However, these requirements are not always clearly defined and no benchmarks are provided.
13. Are conditions of contract generally equitable? Do they provide adequate coverage for most important commercial and legal issues (for the
method of procurement, size, nature and type of contract used) and provide adequate protection to the Government, without putting undue
risk on bidders?



102
j{ The conditions of contract are derived from the Law on Contracts (Obligations) which is up to datR and follows the international commercia! practice. 
14. Can appropriate conditions for price adjustment be introduced if needed, and is an adequate system available for indexing the prices of basic
contractual inputs (labour, material, equipment, usage)?
The PPL provides price adjustment provisions, and the Central Statistical Office publishes statistical indexes, monthly.
15. Are standard purchase orders used for shopping?
Yes, sample purchase orders are used for shopping.
B4 - PRE-QUALIFICATION
1. Is pre-qualification carried out when appropriate? What types of contracts is it used for? Works? Goods? Consultants? Other?
Pre-qualification is recommended under the law for goods and works procured under ICB. Pre-qualification can be also conducted for consulting services
as a prelude to the preparation of the short list.
2. Is the pre-qualification process fair and transparent? Are decisions made promptly? Are foreign firms allowed to apply?
According to the law, pre-qualification criteria should be clearly stated in the pre-qualification documents and the evaluation of the applicants should be
conducted exclusively based on the announced criteria. Submission of false information shall disqualify the applicant. After the decision is reached all
participants are informed of the outcome. The procurement entity, upon request, communicates to the firms that have not been pre-qualified the grounds
for thereof. Only the pre-qualified firms can further participate in the bidding process. Decisions are made promptly.
3. Do pre-qualification documents clearly and completely describe all requisites for submitting responsive applications and the qualification
requirements? Is financial information required and critically analyzed to assess financial capabilities to perform contracts?
The PPL describes in details the elements, which need to be included in the pre-qualification document. The bidders are required to demonstrate their
(legal, technical, financial capacity to implement the contract). However, in absence of standard documents and guidelines there is no consistency in the
preparation of the pre-qualification documents and evaluation.
4. Do procuring entities verify prior to contract award if a successful bidder continues to meet pre-qualification requirements?
The procurement entities are required by law to verify the qualification information of the selected bidder and to request that applicants update this
information if necessary. Failure by the applicant to provide updated information results in rejection of the application.
5. Are suppliers required to have a local agent in order to qualify to bid for goods and services?
No.
6. Do procuring entities maintain updated lists of qualified suppliers, contractors and consultants, and update market information on
commonly procured goods, including spares and consumables? Is supplier, contractor and consultant performance routinely evaluated? Can
newcomers readily apply and be qualified?
No.
B5 - ADVERTISMENT
1. Are contracts to be awarded by competitive bidding publicly advertised?
Contracts of an estimated value of more than HRK400,000.00 (four hundred thousand) (USD75,000.00) (seventy five thousand) are subject to open
tendering and should be advertised in the domestic daily newspapers or in the official gazette "Narodne Novine", Announcements can also be made on
the Internet.
2. Is sufficient time allowed to obtain documents and prepare bids?



103
According to the PPL, the time allowed for bid preparation can not be less than 15 days and 45 days for ICB. This period is calculated from the day the
tender notice is published. In case of three quotation the minimum time according to the PPL is 10 days. If an amendment has to be issued, the procuring
entity can extend the bid submission deadline.
3. What is the track record of the agency on publishing/ updating General Procurement and Specific Procurement Notices?
According to the PPL, a General Procurement Notice has to be published each year. Specific Procurement Notices are published by the procuring entity
in every case when the procurement method is open tendering.
B6 - COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN BIDDERS AND THE PROCURING AGENCY
1. Are requests for clarifications answered promptly and completely in a written form?
Under the law, the procuring entities have to respond to requests for clarifications within three days of their receipt. Such requests must, however, be
submitted eight days before the bid submission deadline. Clarifications are communicated in a written form to all bidders who buy the bidding documents
without identifying the source of the query. PPL provides only for written communication or verbal communication confirmed subsequently in writing.
2. Are clarifications, minutes of the pre-bid conference, if any, and modifications of the documents promptly communicated to all prospective
bidders?
Yes.
3. Are bidders afforded sufficient time to revise their bids following a modification of the documents?
In case of issuance of amendments to the bidding documents, procuring entities are allowed to extend the bid submission deadline. The extension
depends on the complexity of the bid, but the underling goal is to afford the bidders sufficient time to seek clarifications, or to take amendments into
account. All notices of extension are given to all bidders who bought the bidding documents. The deadline of the extension is also announced in the
media where tender notices were published.
4. Do procuring entities maintain accurate records of all communications with the bidders (before and after the deadline for submission)?
This is a requirement under the law and records of communications with the bidders are adequately filed.
5. Are there communications between the procuring entities and the bidders, other than appropriate requests for clarification of a bid made by
the evaluating committee?
Not allowed.
B7 - RECEIPT OF BIDS AND OPENING
1. Are bids received prior to the deadline securely stored? Where? Who has access?
Yes. In a safe. The head of the procuring entity.
2. Are public bid openings conducted?
Yes, in case of open tendering, a public bid opening is conducted. Bidders or their representatives authorized in writing are permitted to attend bid
opening ceremonies. Bidders who are not present can request the information recorded at bid opening.
3. If so, are they conducted at a specified place closely following the deadline for submission? Generally how long after are they scheduled?
Who is invited to attend?



104
| Bid opening takes place at the time, date and place specified in the bidding documents. The time of the bid opening is usually im"e.'' after the bid
submission deadline.
4. Do bid opening procedures generally follow those specified in the Guidelines? What information is read out at the opening ceremony? Are
minutes kept?
Bid opening procedures follow the legal provisions, which generally correspond to the Guidelines. The name and address of each bidder, and bid price
are announced at bid opening. Minutes are prepared
5. Do bid opening procedures differ for goods, works or consultants contracts? If so, how?
Bid opening procedures for goods and works are similar. There is no public bid opening for consultants.
B8 - BID EXAMINATION AND EVALUATION
1. Are evaluations conducted by qualified, evaluating committees?
According to the Law, a commission consisting of at least three members is appointed for the purpose of conducting the evaluation. The professions
represented depend on the scope of the bid. The evaluation is carried out on the basis of the evaluation criteria included in the bidding document.
2. Are evaluating committees appointed ad hoc for each evaluation?
In principle, yes, but for some type of contracts the same experts are used.
3. Is responsiveness determined on the basis of the documentary requirements described in the documents or according to other established
practices? If the latter, describe.
The responsiveness is based on the documentary requirements described in the bidding documents. A bid is responsive only if it conforms to those
requirements and contains only minor deviations that can be corrected without in any way changing the substance of the bid.
4. Are bid evaluations carried out thoroughly and on the basis of the criteria specified in the documents?
Evaluation is carried out in accordance to the evaluation criteria announced in the bidding documents. Price is the main evaluation factor for goods and
works contracts. When evaluation contains criteria other than price, the Merit Point System is preferred.
5. Is the successful bidder's qualification to perform the contract determined solely on the basis of the criteria stated in the documents? If not,
what other criteria are considered?
The only criteria applied are those stated in the bidding document.
6. Are evaluations normally completed within the original bid validity period?
Yes.
7. Are bid evaluation reports prepared containing all essential information (i.e. clear and complete description of the evaluation process,
including the reasons for rejecting any bid as non-responsive, how the stated evaluation criteria were applied, and how the successful
bidder's qualifications were verified)?
They are quite thorough. Information from this report can be made public.
8. Describe any significant differences between goods, works and consultants evaluations relating to the above.
Differences are related to the different subjects. Evaluations tend to be more elaborated when they are based on other factors than price (usually a merit
point system is used) and when qualification requirements are numerous. During the coming Project, the WB's differences will be experienced.



105
B9 - CONTRACT AWARD AND EFFECTIVENESS
1. Are contracts required to be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder who has been determined to be qualified to perform the
contract satisfactorily?
Yes. The contract is awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder who has been pre-qualified or post-qualified to perform the contract.
2. Are negotiations conducted with bidders, before or after selection?
Negotiations are strictly prohibited in case of open competitive procurement method.
3. Are additional Government approvals required before contracts can be made effective? 
No additional Government approvals are needed before contract can be made effective, 
4. Is performance security required in an appropriate amount and in an appropriate format?
The PPL mentions the requirement of performance security from the selected bidder; however it does not give any indication about the amount or the|
format. 
5. Describe any differences between goods, works and consultants relating to the above.
The only difference appears in negotiations. When hiring consultants, negotiations are allowed (also price negotiations when the selection is based on the
technical merit).
BIO - CONTRACT AND ADMINISTRATION
1. Are there manual or computerized procurement and/ or contract monitoring systems in use? Review sample report/ output.
Public procurement entities generally use computerized procurement and contract monitoring systems.
2. Are suppliers and contractors generally paid on time? What is the normal time lapse from invoice submission to final payment?
The normal time lapse from invoice submission to final payment is from fifteen days to three months.
3. Are there appropriate procedures to monitor delivery of goods and services to verify quantity, quality and timeliness? Are stores well kept
and managed including inventory control of goods?
In case of public procurement, the staff is usually competent to monitor delivery of goods and services and to verify quantity, quality and timeliness.
Independent staff is used to manage the inventory.
4. Are contract changes or variations handled promptly in accordance with the contract conditions and established practice (i.e. change/
variation orders are given and/ or confirmed in writing, constructive change orders are avoided, unit rates in the contract are honored but
the supplier or contractor is allowed to agree to any new unit rates introduced and the completion schedule for each change or variation,
etc.)?
Yes.
5. Do procurement entities normally make a good faith attempt to resolve disagreements through informal negotiations? (Amicable
settlement).
Amicable settlement is part of the contract conditions included in the law of Contracts.
6. If this fails, are the resulting disputes handled in accordance with contract conditions?
Yes, usually under the commercial courts.
7. Are supplier, contractor and consultant claims handled fairly based on a clear recognition of both parties' obligations under the contract?



106
| Commercial courts have been operating for a long time in Croatia. Their decisions seem to be fair and based on a clear recognition of both parties' rights
and obligations.
8.    Are works contracts supervised by independent Engineers? Does an employee of Employer act as Engineer or Project Manager in
some cases?
Works are usually supervised by an independent Engineer, in accordance with the Law on Civil Works.
9. Are contract managers/ administrators skilled in resolving problems in a timely manner and dealing with unforeseen circumstances arising
during the life of the contract? Do they adequately document all actions of contractual import taken by the purchase/ employer during
implementation?
Contract managers and administrators are generally skilled and experienced and decisions are documented for subsequent audit.
10. Are contractual remedies utilized only when appropriate and in accordance with the contract conditions?
Usually remedies are utilized only when appropriate.
11. Are contracts generally completed on schedule and within the originally approved contract price? Or are cost and time overruns frequent?
If so, in which sectors and for which particular kinds of contracts? Are fair final acceptance procedures used and certificates issued in a
timely fashion? How frequently are contracts extended or amended?
Delays are reported mostly for works contracts. Unit costs should not change in contract extensions, unless new types of works or goods are involved, or
there are compelling reasons for the change, and both parties acknowledge it. Fair acceptance procedures are employed, certificates issued in a timely
manner, and final procedures are efficiently handled.
12. Are contracts generally administered in a fair and equitable manner (e.g. the purchaser/ employer/ client grants extensions of time when
delays are attributable to its untimely action, fair compensation is provided to offset additional costs caused by its mistakes, etc.).
The procurement agencies follow a fair and just manner in-administering the contract.
13. Are under-inspection, over-inspection and/ or improper rejection of goods, materials or methods of carrying out the works a common
problem?
No.
14. Are disruptions of the supplier's, contractor's or consultant's orderly performance common, i.e., does the purchaser, employer or client
supply all the goods, materials and labor and data it agreed to supply under the contract and carry out all inspections in a timely fashion?
Usually no.
15. Can any of the improper contract administrative practices identified above, be attributable to a problem identified in the local procurement
environment/ Specify.
No improper administrative practices, due to local procurement environment, have been identified.
16. Are procurement evaluations/ audits conducted? If so, describe scope, frequency, who carries them out, etc.
State Audit Office (SAO) conducts regular yearly audit. This audit includes the procurement of goods, works and services procured under the PPL. PMU
audit will be carried out by independent auditor, according to WB rules.
17. Are final payments and contract final closure efficiently handled?
Yes.



107
C - Organization and Functions
1. Describe general organization of procurement unit.
For the Loan, a Project Management Unit (PMU) was established by the Ministry of Health as an independent legal entity. The PMU, consisting five
persons, will serve as procurement unit, too. In addition to the Procurement Specialist, another such specialist will be hired, as needed, during peak work
periods. In addition, the PMU Director has experience with WB regulations and procurement guidelines.
2. Are key functions assigned and duly staffed? - Planning - Preparation of Bidding Documents - Bidding Process Management (Advertising,
Printing and Publication, Responses to Questions/ Clarifications, Prebid conference) - Bid Opening - Bid Evaluation - Contract Preparation
- Contract Management - Quality Control and Inspection - Transport, Insurance - Custom Clearances and Expediting, etc.
PMU staff will be adequate to handle the bidding process and contract management. Quality control, inspection etc. are the tasks of the contractor, i.e. the
Ministry of Health, which has departments for these tasks.
3. Are there procedural manuals and clear instructions for staff to follow?
Generally procurement is conducted in accordance to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law (1997). The POM gives instruction for the staff.
4. Is appropriate information on procurement adequately disseminated (i.e. procurement staff are aware of updated rules and thresholds, and
other issues relevant to their assigned responsibilities)?
Dissemination of procurement information to the procurement entities by the Public Procurement Administration is an area, which needs to be further
addressed. Currently, the only source of information for the procurement entities is the official Newspaper where new laws and regulations are published.
5. Are the procurement and supply management functions clearly distinguished?
According to the law, the procurement of standard goods, needed by all or several procurement entities (furniture, computers) is conducted jointly. The
procurement of goods and services, which satisfy specific needs, is conducted separately, by each public entity.
6. Is contracting authority reasonably delegated (i.e. there are no unnecessary levels of approvals or cumbersome procedures)?
The contracting authority is delegated by the procurement entity.
1.   7.     Are thresholds for contracting powers regularly updated?
The threshold is not for the contracting power but for the value limit, above which the use of the PPL is mandatory. This threshold is updated yearly.
II.   8.    Are procurement agents used? Under what circumstances? How are they selected? Describe normal basis for compensation and
contract duration.
In general, the procurement entities do not employ procurement agents. However, if necessary technical or legal experts is hired to provide advisory services.
D - Support and Control Systems
1. Are there auditing arrangements in place and suitably established? Describe.
Every procurement unit is subject to regular audits (usually once a year) by the State Audit Office (SAO). Random audits are also conducted. SAO
receives copies of complaints from the PPA and uses them in the auditing process. PMU will be audited according to WB rules.
2. What is the general quality and scope of the auditing arrangements?
As far as procurement is concerned SAO undertakes a post review of all procurement actions irrespective of the size of the contract and determines if
procurement has been conducted according to the PPL. SAO gives particular attention to the use of the competitive process by the procurement entities
and checks if contracts have been unduly sliced in order to avoid competition. SAO makes sure that these agencies have all the clearances from MOF for:
sole source, use of short list in services, limiting competition to local/foreign bidders/consultants, using evaluation procedures other than price etc.



108
Penalties are applied when:
eDividing the procurement value to avoid the procurement methods prescribed by the law;
*  Conducting ICB without applying the national preference;
*  Delegate the performance of the procurement to an entity to which the law doesn't apply to circumvent the law;
*  Concluding a contract with the bidder which is not the lowest evaluated bidder;
*  Increasing by more than 20% the value of a contract which has not been subject to competition in the first place;
*  Failing to observe the minimum time thresholds imposed by the law for bid preparation;
*  Restricting bidders' access to information and bidding documents;
*  Using other criteria than those set forth in the bidding documents;
*  Negotiating with bidders before/after award;
*  Failing to inform all the participants about the award;
*  Including provisions in the contract which differ form those in the bid of the lowest evaluated responsive bidder;
*  Failing to maintain procurement records and files in accordance with regulations.
The audit can apply penalties or submit the case to the Court in case of a criminal act.
SAO is a young institution (established 1994) staffed with competent and dedicated professionals (lawyers, accountants, financial analysts). It conducts
both financial and performance audits.
3. Is the audit independent? Are its recommendations implemented?
SAO reports directly to the Parliament; a copy of the audit report is sent to the line Ministry and Ministry of Finance. Procurement entities have to apply
and report on the implementation of the SAO's recommendations.
4. Are internal technical and administrative controls clear for reviews, clearances and decision-making?
Yes.
5. Does the unit have access to quality legal advice and input?
Yes, either in the frame of the "mother" institution, or as a service, provided by a consultant.
E - Record Keeping
1. For contracts to be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, does the procuring unit maintain a complete record of the process? This
would include e.g. copies of all public advertisements, pre-qualification documents (if used), the pre-qualification evaluation report
documenting any decisions not to pre-qualify certain potential bidders, the bidding documents and any addenda, a record of any pre-bid
meetings, the bid opening minutes, the final bid evaluation report (including a detailed record of the reasons used to accept or reject each
bid, copies of bids, appeals against procedures or award recommendations, a signed copy of the final contract and any performance and
advance payment securities issued, etc. Are cross-references to pertinent files adequate and clear?
Procurement entities keep adequate records of the documents prescribed in the PPL. All files should be maintained for 5 years as a minimum. The new
PMU will keep records according to WB rules.
2. Are adequate contract administration records maintained? (These would include contractual notices issued by the supplier, contractor,
purchaser or employer; a detailed record of all change or variation orders issued affecting the scope, quantities, timing or price of the
contract; records of invoices and payments; progress reports; certificates of inspection, acceptance and completion; records of claims and



109
disputes and their outcome; etc.)
Same as in para 1.
3. For small contracts or purchase orders for goods procured using shopping procedures, is a database maintained showing the current market
price for commonly needed items?
Generally procuring entities have adequate information about the market prices and market trends.
4. Are periodic reports prepared on overall procurement activities? By and for whom?
Reports are submitted periodically (usually quarterly) to the relevant central authority (Ministry or Municipality) to account for the use of budgetary
funds. Reports usually contain the subject of the contract, the supplier/seller/consultant, the total value of the contract, implementation status, and issues
in project implementation if any).
5. Is a record of contract prices maintained? How is it used? To establish national price indices?
Prices are recorded as part of the procurement information which is maintained by each procurement unit; however, there is no evidence that this
information is used in elaborating national price indices.
F - Staffing
1. Is there a job description for the staff, including qualifications required?
Yes, the staff of the PMU have job descriptions, including qualification requirements.
2. Do staff skills generally match requirements and numbers? Are there any staffing gaps?
Yes.
3. Are staff selected competitively or by direct appointment?
The PMU Director was appointed directly by the MOH. Other staff members will be selected competitively.
4. Are procurement staff experienced in international procurement?
In case of the PMU, the Director has been involved in WB procurement under the on-going WB-financed Health Project.
5. Is career advancement primarily based on job-related accomplishments and factors?
Yes.
6. Do adequate formal and on-the-job training programs exist for entry- and higher-level procurement staff that contributes to proper
professional career development?
There is no systematic, formal training program for entry and/or high-level procurement staff. WB has organized procurement seminars in Croatia.
7. Are there additional training resources in the country which are currently utilized or that could be utilized to complement Government/
donor-administered programs (e.g. universities and private institutions)?
There are no significant funds available to supplement the Government funds. Donors are generally not present in Croatia.
8. Did previous training programs lead to an obvious improvement in the quality/ productivity of procurement work?
There is no assessment in this field.
9. Does procurement staff have adequate project/ contract management capabilities?
Yes.



110
G - General Risk Assessment
1. is the procurement unit staff held in high regard in the organization?
Although there is not a "procurement profession" as such in the Croatian civil service, the public servants responsible for procurement are considered to
be carrying on important responsibilities for public money and therefore they are respected.
2. Are pay levels for procurement professionals comparable to that for other public and private sector technical specialists? Give current range
of monthly salaries.
Since there is no formal procurement profession, this activity is carried out by people with legal, technical or financial background. They enjoy salary
levels, comparable with, and even slightly higher than other public servants but lower than the private sector salaries.
3. Does the procurement profession appear to be generally staffed with honest and capable individuals?
Yes. The activity of the procuring entities dealing with public procurement is audited yearly.
4. Are the authorities relating to procurement clearly delegated to the entities carrying out the process? Are the applicable procedures clearly
defined?
PPL clearly delegates the procurement authority to the procuring entities. The applicable procedures are defined in the Law.
5. Are procurement decisions ever overridden by higher governmental agencies? If so, by whom? To what degree is the procurement decision-
making process independent from politics? Indicate how differences are resolved when there is a difference of view between the purchasing
entity and the Tender Board or other final approval body regarding the award recommendation.
Procurement entities are independent in conducting the procurement process and making procurement decisions. Only the PPA, established in the
Ministry of Finance, can override procurement decisions but PPA's authority and responsibility in this regard is clearly defined in the PPL.
6. Does the highest level of the agency encourage/ support/ enforce compliance with existing procurement regulations? Are violations
investigated and procurement/ other responsible officials held accountable?
Yes, it is the interest of the highest level of the agency, to enforce compliance with the PPL, and every complaints or violations are investigated.
7. Assess the performance of the agency in earlier Bank projects in terms of its ability to handle Bank-financed contracts (timeliness,
transparency, misprocurements, incidence of complaints, Bank reversal decisions, etc.)
The PMU involved in the implementation of the previous WB Health Project implemented it successfully. Only very few complaints were submitted
during its activity. The PMU Director is the same person who headed the previous program.



Illl
OVERALL RISK ASSESSMENT
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed
High
Goods       US $ 300,000 (equivalent); first 2 IS, NS                                                Average    XX
Works       NCB-first 2; MW-first                                                                    Low
Consultant:  All contracts over US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals
Post Review: One in 5 contracts.
Form prepared by: Gyorgy Novotny
Frequency of procurement supervision mission proposed: Once every 6 months. The supervision  (Procurement Specialist/Accredited Staff
missions should include a procurement specialist especially during the first two years of the work. The assigned to the project).
procurement specialist will not only conduct ex-post reviews but will also continue providing guidance
and support to the procurement specialist in the PMU. The Beneficiary shall be required to establish a Signature:
computerized project procurement system.
Comments: There is very little capacity to procure goods and works in accordance with international
commercial practices within the MOH. Due to lack of procurement experience in the country, other than
the existing PMUs, the MOH has little capacity in carrying out procurement activities in accordance with
World Bank procedures or international commercial practices. The legislative framework in Croatia to
support commercial procurement practices has yet to be developed. It is recommended that procurement
advice be provided by the Resident Mission's Procurement Advisor, on an as-needed basis. Additional
advice will be provided on supervision missions.



112
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Finding and Actions
Assessment                             Risk Assessment
Item Assessed   Nul Poo  Fai  Satis-  Major Weaknesses   Low   Ave.  High    Actions Proposed    Proposed Completion
1    r    r   factor                                                                        Date
(a) Legal Aspects                X    _      _     __--_-__x
(i) Laws &                       X                                X
Regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures           X                                  X
(iii) Internal codes and  X                 There are no                 X           Development of        2000 Dec.
manuals                                     standard documents                       standard bidding
documents
(b) Proc. Cycle                  X          Limited experience           X           Training for PMU      1999. Sept.
Mgmt.                                       in WB procurement                        staff in procurement
(i) General handling                   X                         X
(ii) Procurement                X                                       X
planning
(iii) Preparation of             X                                       X
documents
(iv) Management of                     X                                 X
process
(v) Bid evaluation               X          Merit point system           X           Training in           1999. Dec
is preferred                            preparation of a price
based evaluation
system 
(vi) Contract award      -      X                                        X



113
(vii) Preparation and                X    No standard          X
signing of contracts                      contract form is
available
(viii) Contract                X                                     X
management
C) Organization and            X                                     X
Functions
(i) Organization of       _   X                                      x
unit and functions                                                       I
(ii) Internal manuals    X    -           There are no               X           Development of       1999. Dec.
and instructions                          internal procedural                    internal procedural
manuals                               manuals
(d) Support and                X                                     X
Control Systems      ______
(i) Auditing                   X                                     X           Audit for the project   Annually, during
will include a      implementation
procurement audit.
(ii) Legal assistance                X                    _   X
(iii) Technical and                  X                         X
administrative
controls
(iv) Code of ethics       X    -          No code of ethics in       X           Code of ethics should  2001. Dec.
place. However,                       be published
there are ethical
requirements under
other laws.
(v) Anti-corruption  -        X                                      X
initiatives
(e) Record keeping   -         X                                     X
(i) Public notices                   X                         X
(ii) Bidding                         X                         X
documents



114
(iii) Bid opening  l1                 X l                    I  X   I      I      I                    l
information
(iv) Bid evaluation            X                                       X
reports
(v) Formal appeals             X                                       X
and outcomes
(vi) Signed contract                  X                         X
documents
(vii) Claims and                X                                      X
dispute resolution
records
(viii) Comprehensive            X                                      X
disbursement data
(f) Staffing                    X                                      X          _
(g) General                    X                                       X
Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a culture        X                                       X
of accountability      _ _
(ii) Reputation of             X                                       X
procurement corps
(iii) Salary structure         X                                       X
(iv) Freedom from              X                                       X
political interference
(v) Existence of               X           Lack of systematic          X           Lack of systematic   Continuously
experienced and                             training courses                       training courses
capable staff
(vi) Clear written        X                                            X
standards and
delegation of authority
(vii) Sound budget/            X                                       X
financial systems



115
(h) Private Sector              X                                        X
Assessment                    I
(i) General efficiency                 X                         X
and predictability    _
(ii) Transparency         X                                             X
(iii) Quality of                X                                       X
contract mgmt.
(iv) General                    X                                       X
reputation          I____                         I_I_I                                                                        I
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                      Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ 300,000(equivalent)                                                                           High
Works US$ 300,000(equivalent)                                                                           Average
Consulting US$ 100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individuals (equivalent)                            Low
Post Review Ratio: 1 in 5 contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:                               Form prepared by:
(Procurement Specialist/Accredited Staff
One every 6 months, (includes special procurement supervision for post review/audits)  assigned to the Project)
Signature: signed: Gyorgy Novotny
Date: June 4, 1999
Comments: See General Information and Summary



116
Attachment 3
List of People Met during the Capacity Assessment Mission
No.         NAMES                     Institution/Firm                Position          Other people met
1 .   Ms.Katja Matijevic      Ministry of Health               Assistant to Minister
2.   Ms. Vesna Martek-        Ministry of Health                Advisor, Economist
Radonic
3.   Mr. Ivica Balogovic      Ministry of Finance               Senior Counselor
4.   Mr.Ivan Zilic            Ministry of Finance               Head of Department
5.   Dr. Berislav Skupnjak    MedEcon Consulting                Director
6.   Mr.Spaso Vulic           MedEcon Consulting                Deputy Director
7.   Ms. Marija Simunovic-    Croatian Institute for Health     Head of Department
Filipancic              Insurance
8.   Dr. Nikola Benic         First Croatian Health Project, Project Director
Implementation Unit



117
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
A Capacity Assessment of the Borrower was prepared during Project appraisal mission (May 1999).
Brief Statement
The implementation agency has experience in conducting competitive procurement under the Croatia Public Procurement Law. The PCU has experience in Bank procurement.
unlry Procurement Assessment Report status:                            Are the bidding documentsfor the procurement actiorisfor thefirst year ready by negotiations:
nPAR has been conducted in November 1998.                              It is expected that most of the bidding documents for the first year waill be ready by
negotiations.
lining Information and Development on Procurement
*mated Date of     Date ofpublication of      Indicate if there is          Domestic        Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable:
ject Launch        General Procurement        procurement subject to        Preference for   N/A
kshop:            Notice:                     mandatory SPN in             Goods:
Development Business:
ject Launch        August 15, 1999            No.                           Yes
rkshop is planned
anuary 2000
'oactive Financing: Yes                                                    Advance Procurement:
lain: it is possible, US$, 000, 000 for project start-up activities.       No
lain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
project documentation which requires prior review would be cleared by a PAS and the relevant technical staff. The PMU will maintain complete procurement files which will be subject to post review (I
tracts out of 10). Procurement and IT/procurement specialist will be hired by the PMU. Procurement information will be collected and recorded by the PCU and submitted to the Bank as part of quarterly
gress reports. This information would include (a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion
for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
inancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
co-financing is planned.
tion 4: Procurement Staffing
cate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
ne: Gyorgy Novotny Extension: 9541 Budapest RM
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
Resident Mission will provide procurement service support.



118
ANNEX 7
Review of Financial Management Arrangements
General:
This report results from a financial management review and analysis of the Croatia Health
System Project that took place during May 3rd through May 10th 1999 and outlines a number of
recommendations.
Institutional and Implementation Responsibilities:
Project Management: The proposed Project would be implemented over a four year period by
the Ministry of Health, which is the executing agency for the Project. The Ministry of Health
will work in collaboration with the Health Insurance Institute and the National Institute of Public
Health, both of which agencies will be beneficiaries of the loan. The overall responsibility for
the Project would rest with the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health (MOH) will have a
Project Management Unit (PMU) which will have management responsibility for the project
activities.
Assessment of PMU:
T he PMU will build on already existing capacity, particularly in the area of project management,
developed under the on-going Health Project which is scheduled to close at the end of 1999.
The PMU will comprise, at minimumn, five full-time positions as follows:
(i)  PMU Director - Dr. Nikola Benic has already been identified. He was
previously the Project Implementation Officer for the Health Project. He will be
responsible for project management;
(ii)  Program Director - responsible for policy planning and management;
(iii) Accountant - not yet identified;
(iv) Procurement Officer - not identified yet; and
(v)  Administrative Assistant - not identified yet.
Accountant:
The accountant is yet to be identified. During my conversation with Ms. Martek-Radonic, (June
71h), I was informed that by June 1 5th selected name(s) of prospective candidates will be sent for
our review. It was further learnt that MOH will engage one of the accountants from its pool of
2000 employees. It was agreed that the candidate selected will have to have a minimum
qualification acceptable to the World Bank. The TORs were provided to Ms. Vesna Martek-
Radonic, and to Mr. Nikola Benic (PMU Director);



119
PMU Office Space:
Presently, the PMU director is occupying an office which is not in the Ministry of Health's
premises. It is the MOH's position that the accountant will sit separately from the PMU and will
have an office in the MOH. It was my strong recommendation that the PMU staff should all
occupy same premises for better coordination. The ministry is considering this proposal.
PMU Budgetfor Equipment, Salaries, and Auditors:
Approximately $1.1 million has been allocated for staff salaries, office equipment, office
supplies, utilities, accounting software (line item to be incorporated), accounting training in IAS
(if needed), and the audit services. The budget adequately covers for the entire period of Project
implementation.
Accounting Software System:
In the absence of Project accountant, the need to select and purchase an appropriate software was
discussed with Ms. Martek-Radonic and Mr. Benic. Names of various software packages were
also provided.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation for Special Account will be US$1.0 million.
However, during the early stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$0.4 million will be
deposited in the Special Account. When the aggregate disbursements reaches $5.0 million
equivalent, the initial allocations will be increased up to an authorized allocation of $1.0 million
by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each
application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be
submitted by the PMU on a monthly basis or when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has
been utilized, whichever occurs first, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as
other appropriate supporting documents.
Financial Reporting:
In the absence of the accountant, the PMU Director was explained the new reporting
requirement. It was agreed that the disbursements will start using traditional disbursement
methods - Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), reimbursements, direct payment, etc. After the
PMU have gained experience with the financial management system and the reporting under
PMR, and provided that a financial management expert has reviewed and found satisfactory by
the Bank, the Project would move to PMR-based disbursements. The PMU will be responsible
for preparing PMR on a quarterly basis, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. The PMRs will be produced which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project



120
for the six-month period following the period covered by said report and (ii) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the period covered by said report
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the six-month
period following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously
forecast implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Operational Manuas:
The first Health Project's implementing unit did not have any implementing/operational manual
but it was agreed that Project Operational Manual (POM) would be prepared by the accountant
for this Project that would include: (a) the financial management system proposed under the
P'roject, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal
controls; (b) the role of the financial management systems in project management and
implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required for project management, the format
for and content of project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used
during project implementation. It is expected that by end December 1999, a final POM will be
ready which is satisfactory the Bank.
Bank Financial Analyst staffing and supervision:
It was agreed that during Project life, a financial specialist would take part in supervision
mnissions to monitor the Financial Management of the PMU and ensure compliance with ongoing
FM covenants. It was further agreed that a financial specialist would have to return prior to
effectiveness to monitor performance on the FM  action plan.  The FM  procedures and
assessment of the financial staff would be included in the POM.
Auditing:
Zagreb has representatives of all the big-five accounting firms so recruitment of auditors should
not be an issue. The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, Special
Account, and SOEs are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit will be carried out
in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by
the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs against which disbursements
have been made or are due to be made from the Loan and SOEs which will be included in the
audit report accompanying the financial statements.



121
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of
accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions
and ensure safe custody of project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the Project
implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and
(c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
TORs for the auditors were left with Ms. Vesna Martek-Radonic, and Dr. Nikola Benic.
Conclusion:
The Project does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, an Action Plan is being presented below which requires the PMU to design and
implement satisfactory financial management system to address the above issues. Once this
time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the Project will, by then,
have developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the required level of financial
management reports in a timely fashion.
Action Plan for the PMU:
1   Accountant acceptable to the Bank to be recruited for the PMU    Nov. 15,
1999
2   Define accounting software requirements                           Dec. 15,
1999
3   The new accountant most likely will need IAS training, therefore, s/he to    Dec. 15,
attend accounting course on IAS (if required)                    1999
4   Complete evaluation of alternative accounting software solutions and  Dec. 15,
purchase accounting software acceptable to the Bank              1999
5   Open Special Account and Project Account                          By Jan 2000
6   Present shortlist of Project auditors acceptable to the Bank.     By Jan 2000
7   Accounting software system to be installed, tested and capable of producing  Dec. 15,
Project Management Reports IA and 1E.                            1999
8   Visit by Bank staff to confirm adequacy of financial management   Dec. 15,
arrangements prior to effectiveness                              1999
9   Effectiveness                                                     January,
2000
10  Produce full Project Management Reports (and quarterly thereafter)  June 30,
2000
11  Complete Financial Management Manual (for inclusion into the Project  Dec. 31,
Operational Manual)                                              1999
12  Consider a move to PMR-based disbursements                       June 30,
2000



122
ANNEX 8
Pharmaceutical Waste Component
Croatia Health System Project
,Objective of Component
1.   Croatia currently has a stock of approximately 2,700 tons of outdated or unusable
pharmaceutical products that are the residue of a much larger volume of pharmaceutical products
donated through international aid programs during a prior period of war. The outdated drugs and
disposable consumables are located at sites around the country where storage is often inadequate.
'They now pose risks both to public health and to the environment.
2.   The Croatian Ministry of Health (MOH) has requested that the proposed Health System
'Project provide financial support for the disposal of this stock. MOH elaborated its request in
Disposition of Drugs with Expired Date of Use, a document prepared by Professor Franjo Plavsic
of the Croatian National Institute of Toxicology.
Background
3.   For this component, "pharmaceutical waste" is defined as including: all drugs (except
narcotics and cytostatics), lotions, creams, and other ointments; packaging materials and boxes;
unused consumable materials such as gauze, bandages and packaged food items; unused
disposable consumable items such as needles ("sharps"), syringes that have expired prior to use,
catheters, and paper; and minor amounts of discarded medical equipment. The definition
excludes infectious or biohazardous waste. It also excludes medical equipment that is easy to
reuse, such as beds. The Project adopts this relatively broad definition partly because it would
take care of many of the public health issues of pharmaceutical waste, such as unused needles
entering the black market; it would reduce the amount of waste in landfills; it would make the
sorting process much easier to perform; and it would minimize issues of worker safety.
However, incinerating this class of materials could release toxic chemicals if the burn heat is not
the right temperature or if the scrubbers are not working properly, and so would require careful
oversight.
4.   Currently, there are over 250 sites in Croatia holding outdated pharmaceutical waste. Of
these, approximately 25 sites hold the majority of the waste (by tonnage and volume). In
general, those 25 sites each correspond with a small city, although occasionally there is more
than one large site in a city. Although the nature and mix of items varies from site to site (see
appendix), the waste generally consists predominantly of expired pharmaceutical drugs. It can
also include: packaging, unused consumable materials, unused disposable items, and minor
amounts of discarded medical equipment. The sites' inventories, however, do not include
narcotics or cytostatics (anti-cancer drugs). When Croatian warehouses received pharmaceutical
sihipments, they routinely separated out narcotics and cytostatics and stored them separately in a
controlled manner. Additionally, because all supplies and drugs are unused, there is no infectious
or biological material included in the stockpile for disposal. Thus, narcotics, cytostatics, and
infectious/biological wastes are not included in the pharmaceutical waste that the Project would
eliminate.



123
5.   To assess the proposed disposal plan and other options for disposing effectively of the
waste pharmaceuticals, representatives of the Bank had discussions with a range of Croatian
counterparts. These included representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Croatian National
Institute of Toxicology, the Hazardous Waste Management Agency, the State Directorate for the
Protection of Nature and Environment, PUTO (the Process Waste Incinerator), ECOINA,
MedEkon, and the Andrija Stampar School of Public Health, as well as with officials and health-
sector professionals in Split, Zagreb, Rijeka, Makarska, Slavonski Brod, Nova Gradiska, and
Kraljevica. Bank and Croatian officials also conducted field visits to nine storage sites and the
hazardous waste incinerator in Zagreb.
6.   At their initial meeting, the World Bank team and its Croatian counterparts agreed fully
that all work done under this component of the proposed Bank-financed Project must follow best
practice and must comply fully with both Croatian and Bank environmental standards and
requirements, including:
* Republic of Croatia Law on Environmental Protection
* Republic of Croatia Law on Waste
* Republic of Croatia Law on Air Quality Protection;
* Republic of Croatia By-Law on Quality Standards for Liquid Oil Fuels
* Republic of Croatia Decree on Environmental Impact Assessment
* Review of International Treaties
* Review of Significant Regulations-Nature and Environment
* Basle Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
Their Disposal 1989;
* Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context 1991;
* European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road
1956; and
* World Bank Operational Policy 4.01-Environmental Assessment
7.  It is clear from the Bank team's visit and from discussions with Bank environmental staff
who work frequently in Croatia that national authorities and regulatory agencies in the areas of
environmental regulation and waste management have considerable technical expertise and
institutional capacity. This makes it appropriate to rely significantly on normal environmental
regulatory processes in Croatia to ensure that pharmaceutical waste disposal activities under the
Project are conducted appropriately.
The Component and its Elements
8.   The Pharmaceuticals Disposal Component will have four principal elements:
(i) Pharmaceutical drugs (with their packaging) and disposable consumables would be
separated from reusable medical supplies at 25 priority sites (with the additional
possibility that the Government could consolidate at these sites outdated and unused
pharmaceuticals now stored in smaller sites);
(ii) The pharmaceutical waste from these 25 sites would then be transported in special-
purpose containers by vehicles to the incinerator in Zagreb;
(iii) All expired drugs and disposable consumables from these sites, and associated packaging
where appropriate, (totaling approximately 2700 tons) would be incinerated; and



124
(iv) The resultant ash (approximately 175-250 tons) would be disposed of using a plan that
will be agreed upon by the Government and the Bank, following further technical analysis
by Croatian authorities of the options available.
Consolidation and Sorting.
9.   Waste at each of the 25 priority sites would be sorted into that requiring incineration and
that which could be reused or disposed of in other environmentally acceptable ways. The sorting
process would be based on pilot exercises conducted in Zagreb and Split, would take account of
lessons learned from these, and would comply with Croatian regulatory requirements for worker
safety. Waste for incineration would be placed in environmentally acceptable and secure
containers - probably, woven poly bags that the Zagreb hazardous waste incinerator already uses
for storage and transportation of fly-ash and that meet relevant EU standards. Using this
approach of focusing on the 25 main sites would, on its own, deal with most of the outdated
pharmaceuticals of which the government wants to dispose.
10.  In addition, the government could consolidate outdated pharmaceutical waste from the
other, smaller sites around the country at the 25 major sites. Doing so would free additional
space, reduce recurrent rental charges (at least $40,000 per year) that are now incurred for some
of the storage sites, increase the proportion of the total pharmaceutical waste problem that could
be solved through the Project, and simplify the task of sorting waste at the smaller sites.
Medical equipment would not be sent on to the consolidated sites. Consolidation in this way
would only be undertaken when the waste in smaller sites is not hazardous, is not used, and
contains neither narcotics nor cytostatics and when its transportation poses no safety or
environmental concerns. According to the Basle Convention, pharmaceutical waste is not
considered hazardous unless it crosses national boundaries, so transportation inside Croatia
should not be a regulatory problem. Furthermore, Croatia has intensive regulation (quite well
implemented) for transport of materials inside the country.
11.  Identification of the 25 Main Sites. Croatian authorities will identify, and propose to the
EBank for its agreement, a list of the 25 specific sites from which the Project component will
dispose of pharmaceutical waste. In selecting these 25 specific sites, the authorities will:
* Give priority to sites that have a relatively large volume of pharmaceutical waste;
* Give priority to sites where storage conditions (including water and sun) create an above-
average risk that the pharmaceutical waste will be subject to physical deterioration or
spontaneous combustion that would create health or environmental risks for the local
community; and
+  Exclude sites where there is used pharmaceutical waste that could present risks to the safety
of workers involved in sorting or transporting the materials.
12.  Croatian authorities will also have prime responsibility for the oversight of work at these
sites, including ensuring that the work is conducted in accordance with guidelines agreed to by
the Bank. Furthermore, within the overall work program, prioritization of sites will be key to
assuring the most effective service for Croatia. This means that sorting and disposition should in
general begin first at sites where pharmaceutical waste is already degrading due to water or sun
damage.



125
Transportation
13.  Once the pharmaceutical waste has been sorted, it will be stored in suitable containers, and
taken to the hazardous waste incinerator located in Zagreb. Concern about this activity focuses
on the possible risks to public health or the environment from accidents, spills, or theft as the
pharmaceutical waste is being transported within the country. Croatia has established regulatory
processes for transportation of hazardous material. The pharmaceutical waste will be transported
in accordance with these regulations and processes at least to the degree required by law, and
possibly to a greater degree. Given that the Basle Convention defines pharmaceutical waste as
non-hazardous unless it is transported internafionally, however, further consultation and advice
from Croatian regulatory authorities is needed to define the extent to which they consider it
necessary or desirable for shipments of pharmaceutical waste to be transported as if they were
hazardous waste. Together, these factors imply that domestic transport of pharmaceutical waste
should not be a cause for significant concern.
14. Transportation will require active planning, however. Because the incinerator does not
have enough storage capacity to receive all the waste at once, the timing of truck deliveries
bringing the waste from each site will need to be carefully scheduled with the operators of the
incinerator. Moreover, the containers used to hold and transport waste will need to be closely
monitored and designed to prevent spills and other mishaps. For example, the Croatian
incinerator currently uses large bags that comply with EU standards to hold fly-ash. These bags
could also be used as an outer protective layer in which to place cartons (or other containers) of
pharmaceutical waste for transport. The bags could be placed within shallow open crates on
pallets that could be moved by forklifts, with the open crates keeping the base of the bags
contained and protecting the bags from the possibility of damage by the forks. The Ministry of
Health, in conjunction with Croatian authorities responsible for regulating environmental safety
and the transportation of hazardous waste, will be asked to develop, for Bank consideration, a
specific proposal for transport and for the containers to be used in this process.
Incineration
15.  After considering other disposal options (such as use of cement kilns or storage in sealed
barrels in landfills or within deep natural caves) and after reviewing the Croatian report on
disposition, the team agreed with Croatian counterparts that incineration would be the best
method of disposal. Most importantly, it is the method required by Croatian law for disposing of
outdated pharmaceuticals. It is also the most effective method for dealing with both the public
health and hazardous waste problems. Furthermore, prices quoted for the Zagreb incinerator
were comparable with those of other EU incinerators, even though incineration is more
expensive than other modes of disposal. Finally, the incinerator in Zagreb, when examined, was
found to meet very high standards, including those of both Croatia and the EU. The plant is
capable of burning at temperatures above 1200 degrees celsius, which are high enough to reduce
toxic emissions from plastic packaging, and it has an impressive array of scrubbers. Commercial
pharmaceutical manufacturers have used it already to destroy surplus pharmaceuticals. The
incinerator plant has two weaknesses. One is its recent lack of sufficient material for continuous
burning, which is relevant because pharmaceuticals on their own in general lack the caloric
content to burn at 1200 degrees unless they are mixed with other wastes or burned using light



126
oils. The other weakness is the limited but heavily used area -for receiving waste materials and
storing fly-ash within in its open-sided storage shed. (The oversight agency has reportedly
already required the plant to upgrade the storage area so as to eliminate standing water from its
concrete floor following rain.) The contract for the incineration element of the component would
be on a sole-source basis. However, price verification by either WHO or an independent agency
would be used to establish the reasonableness of the contract price applying to direct contracting
for incineration and related services. Coordination and scheduling of the transportation of the
waste should be written into the TORs of the incinerator. Final disposition of the ash from
inicineration would also be written into the TORs to be included in the final price (see below).
F'inal Disposition
16.  Of the approximately 2700 tons of pharmaceutical waste in Croatia, the incinerator is
expected to produce, as a by-product of incineration, fly-ash weighing between 5 percent and 7
percent of the total amount. The final disposition of this ash is a concern due to its potentially
toxic nature. Currently there is no fully-defined plan for final disposition, although two plans
(below) are being considered or developed. Both plans create potential environmental concerns
and will require further thorough review. A disposition plan that is acceptable to the Bank would
be a condition of disbursement under this Project component. A related requirement would be
thLe final disposition of the approximately 250 tons of fly-ash currently held in storage at the
incinerator. This ash was created by past operations of the incinerator, and should be disposed of
before pharmaceutical waste disposal under a Bank-supported Project begins.
17. Currently, the option which looks most realistic is to transport the fly-ash to Germany,
where it would be buried in closed mine shafts to help alleviate sinking. Although this option
would have to be carefully scrutinized, it appears to be potentially viable. International
conventions permit hazardous waste to be transported internationally, subject to strict conditions,
when it cannot be safely disposed of in the country of origin. Moreover, the incinerator's
management advised that companies are available to carry out disposition via this method and
that these companies accept responsibility for gathering all the necessary international permits. If
the option of transporting the fly-ash to Germany is the one ultimately adopted, the Bank team
recommends building the price for disposition of the ash into the contract for incineration as a
way to simplify the component. An alternative option, which Croatian authorities are still
evaluating for its technical acceptability, is to put the fly-ash into liquid solution and then pump
it more than three kilometers into the earth's core to alleviate potential leakage or other
environmental problems. This alternative is not yet an option, as no company has received
permits from the Croatian government allowing this disposal method.
Cost Estimates
I 8. Costs can be considered in relation to the two procurement packages that are envisaged:
one covering sorting and transportation and procured through international competitive bidding;
and the other covering incineration and final disposition of the residual fly-ash, which would be
procured through direct contracting. All of the following cost estimates include Croatian value-
added tax of 22 percent. The estimated total cost for this component is US$ 3.8 million.



127
Consolidation, Sorting, and Transportation
19. If there is to be any consolidation from beyond the 25 main sites, Croatian authorities will
bear the costs associated with preliminary sorting of pharmaceutical waste stored elsewhere and
its transportation to the 25 main sites. Transportation of the consolidated material from the 25
main sites to the incinerator will be covered under Transportation.
20.  To ensure adequate coordination of all aspects of the sorting and transportation processes
associated with the 25 main sites, a single umbrella contract would be issued for these activities.
Total costs for these steps are currently estimated to be US$420,000 for all 25 sites. Sorting
should be relatively simple if the broader definition of pharmaceutical waste is used as, in most
sites visited by the Bank team, medical supplies were held in distinct areas away from
pharmaceutical waste. However, sorting contracts should include packing the waste into the
special containers. They should also protect worker safety. Monitoring of sites and of the
effectiveness of sorting could be conducted by Croatian authorities.
21.  The transportation step should include: the transportation of the special containers holding
pharmaceutical waste to the incinerator; loading and unloading at both ends; and logistical
coordination with the incinerator to ensure smooth, continuous feeding of materials to the
incinerator. Oversight of this component would be conducted by the Croatian National Institute
of Toxicology which has jurisdiction over transportation of hazardous waste and other
substances in Croatia. Estimate for transportation of pharmaceutical waste to the incinerator is
US$320,000.
Incineration and Final Disposition
22.  To reduce the risk of incineration without final disposition of the residual fly-ash, a single
procurement package and contract would cover both these elements of the component. Although
the actual contract price for direct contracting would be subject to price verification by either
WHO or an independent agency to establish reasonableness of price, the current cost estimate for
this package in Project documentation is approximately US$ 3.1 million. Incineration of all
pharmaceutical waste would be conducted solely at the Zagreb incinerator. This incinerator is the
only incinerator in Croatia capable of conducting the appropriate levels of incineration.
Furthermore, other disposal methods have been investigated and discarded by both Croatian
officials and the Bank team. Incineration would include the mixing of appropriate wastes
together to achieve the correct burn temperature, analysis of the resultant ash, proper
maintenance and use of environmental techniques, and containing the fly-ash correctly. An
education campaign through the local media or non-governmental organizations (NGOs) should
inform local residents of potential materials released and timing. Oversight of this step would
continue to be primarily the responsibility of Croatian authorities (in this case, the State
Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment).
23. This final step consists of disposing of the resultant fly-ash (from incineration,
approximately 175-250 tons) in an enviromnentally stable and permanent manner. Most likely, it
would consist of transportation, stabilization, and then capping. Currently there are two options



128
being considered. The first option (disposal in German retired mine shafts) would also include
obtaining necessary permits for transportation across international boundaries.
24. The second option (liquefied disposal in depleted Croatian oil mines) would require
additional steps to the ones listed above. There is currently no cost estimate for this option, as
no company has received permission from the Croatian government to use the method.
Possible Controversial Issues
l'UTO (the Process Waste Incinerator)
25. The hazardous waste incinerator in Zagreb was built in 1997 in accordance with both
Croatian and EU standards. Even though the incinerator sits within city lines, it actually is
located several kilometers away from residential and business communities. It is instead placed
adjacent to the city landfill. It could easily handle the requirements for this Project component.
Burn temperatures reach over 1200 degrees Celsius, the level recommended by WHO for
burning pharmaceutical waste and medical supplies. It is also equipped with extensive
"scrubbers" and technology for analyzing the composition of the wastes being produced. It has
already been used to dispose of 250 tons of unwanted pharmnaceutical products for the Croatian
pharmaceutical company, Pliva.
26.  The incinerator has extensive safety checks and pollution control measures. Extensive
chemical analysis is conducted at several stages of incineration to ensure low levels of toxicity
and appropriate treatment of resultant water and/or ash. All water used by the incinerator is
continuously recycled through a closed loop back into various operations of the incinerator. Ash
produced at all process steps is analyzed for its chemical composition. According to the analysis,
the ash is either put in containers and disposed of in a nearby landfill (currently being upgraded
to include multiple liners and water collection) or placed in specially constructed bags and
disposed of as hazardous waste.
27.  There are three types of air filters: a large bag filter, through which all material must pass;
a selective catalytic filter, through which all material must pass; and, if deemed necessary,
showers which use water droplets to pull heavy ions out of the air. The first two filters operate
continuously, before allowing any material to leave the smoke stack. The third is a backup
measure when chemical analysis shows hazardous material. Additionally, the incinerator uses
several closed cooling chambers to pull materials out of the air stream, as well as introducing
activated carbon into the process flow.
28. The hazardous waste incinerator in Zagreb (PUTO) is jointly owned by the city of Zagreb
(70 percent) and four foreign private companies (Hoffner, Mannheim, IRS, and Boltzano, with
combined shares totaling 30 percent) that invested in or contributed to its technology. Each of
the companies and the city have a seat on the board of PUTO. However, the day to day
management is conducted by PUTO solely. Furthermore, the City of Zagreb has given its seat on
the board and its management duties to a private company, ZGO. The four private co-owning
companies have a continuing interest in the management of the incinerator and expect it to run
as a profit-making firm. ZGO is a local firm that specializes in recycling consumable



129
disposables, thus making it a good partner. Prices are generally set by the incinerator plant's
administration. The PUTO manager advised that his cost estimate for the component reflected
the price charged to incinerate Pliva's pharmaceutical waste, adjusted for a volume discount for
the Project.
Justification for Disposal via Incineration
29.  The justification for using this method of disposition has three parts. First, international
treaties to which Croatia is a signatory (notably, the Basle Convention on the Control of
Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal 1989), specify: (a) that
pharmaceutical waste shall be deemed hazardous once it is transported across international
borders and (b) that hazardous waste cannot be transported across international borders if it can
be disposed of acceptably in the country where it originated.
30. Second, Croatian law specifies that incineration is the required method for disposing of
expired or unused pharmaceutical products.
31.  Third, the Zagreb hazardous waste incinerator is capable of disposing of the expired
pharmaceuticals and related wastes in an environmentally acceptable manner and it is the only
such incinerator in Croatia. As described earlier, the Zagreb incinerator could easily handle the
requirements for this Project component. Moreover, available information indicates that the
rates proposed by the incinerator's management for disposing of the pharmaceutical waste
generally compare satisfactorily with rates for other incinerators in Europe.
Final Disposition of Resultant Ash
32. This step of the component needs to be thoroughly evaluated and agreed upon before
disbursement for this component can begin. Several environmental concerns could be raised with
either option, therefore careful attention to appropriate permits and implementation plans will
need to be given.
Social Involvement
33. The primary beneficiaries of this component will be the Croatian population as a whole,
through the removal from many geographic regions of problematic wastes that could present a
growing risk over time to local communities. A successful component would have almost
completely positive repercussions for local communities and it is implausible that communities
would want to keep waste around. According to Croatian officials and local healthcare workers,
it would be a great political accomplishment to relieve the public from this potential hazard.
Some NGOs and newspapers, especially in Split, have named the waste "the timebomb." Local
communities are in general aware of the presence of these sites, many of which are at public
hospitals owned by local governments. The thrust of local concern is typically about lack of
action to dispose of the pharmaceutical waste stored there. For these reasons, preparation of the
component has not focused heavily on assessing local communities' interest in disposing of these
wastes. Rather, it has had a more technical focus, primarily examining how to accomplish the



130
component's objectives without creating unintended adverse- health or environmental effects in
the short term or long term.
34. Involving local communities is of greater urgency in relation to possible, although unlikely
and unintended, consequences of the disposal process. In particular, if it were to happen that
incineration had the effect of releasing some potentially toxic substances into the air surrounding
Zagreb, the bulk of the population affected would be living and working several kilometers away
from the incinerator. Accordingly, it will be important for Croatian authorities to inform the
community through either educational media or local NGOs about the gases that might
potentially be released if the Zagreb incinerator malfunctions and about the timing of
incineration processes.
Institutional Capability
35. The effectiveness of this component rides on the capability of local and federal institutions.
Ihe Bank's health team and other Bank environmental staff who work in Croatia are satisfied
that relevant institutional capacity in Croatia is quite strong. Relevant laws are both in place and
enforced. Many aspects of this component meet EU standards. Most of the time, Croatian law
not only meets EU standards, but exceeds them. Nevertheless, the Bank sees merit in also
having an agency independent of both Croatia and the Bank involved in the overall supervision
of this Project component.
Conditions of Disbursement under the Component
36. The following conditions of disbursement are proposed under the component:
(i)  Submit to the Bank a list of up to 25 sites, selected in accordance with criteria agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank, from which the pharmaceutical waste
component will be collected and disposed.
(ii) Develop a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for transportation of the pharmaceutical waste
under Part C of the Project, including for the containers to be used for these purposes.
(iii) Develop a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the final disposition of toxic fly-ash produced
in the process of incineration of pharmaceutical waste;
(iv) Develop an expenditure structure, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of Part
C of the Project.
Monitoring Arrangements
37. Monitoring arrangements for this component would be coordinated by the MOH, which
would remain in regular contact, as needed, with the other relevant Croatian regulatory agencies
that have oversight responsibility for different aspects of the pharmaceuticals disposal process.
MOH and the PMU would maintain a file of agreed documentation that summarizes and reports
on official regulatory oversight of the disposal activities. Bank missions to review progress



131
under the component would work primarily with MOH and the PMU, following up with the
other regulatory agencies on specific issues as necessary and conducting site visits as the
missions deem appropriate. Each other regulatory agency concerned would be asked to
designate a primary counterpart who could function as the initial point of contact for Bank staff
needing to contact the agency about relevant issues.
* For issues relating to the consolidation and sorting activities, MOH/PMU would consult as
appropriate with the Croatian National Institute of Toxicology, and the authorities regulating
worker safety.
* For issues relating to transportation activities, MOH/PMU would consult with the Croatian
National Institute of Toxicology.
* For issues relating to the incineration process, MOH/PMU would consult with PUTO
management about chemical analyses of the inputs and outputs of the process and with the
State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment about its routine
unannounced regulatory inspections of the incinerator.
* For issues relating to the disposal of ash, MOH/PMU would consult with the Croatian
National Institute of Toxicology and the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and
Enviromnent
38. As well as the Bank, representatives of either WHO or another agency independent of
Croatia and the Bank could be involved in the supervision of the disposal process for
pharmaceutical wastes.



132
ANNEX 8 -- Appendix-
Croatian Pharmaceutical Waste:
Illustrative Storage Sites
Diverse storage conditions were observed during site visits, as the notes below illustrate.
1. Zagreb Center for the Receipt and Distribution of Drugs and Medical Supplies
From 1991-1998, the Ministry of Health, operated a central collection facility for donated
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and some food, on the outskirts of Zagreb. The facility,
located on the grounds of an uncompleted hospital facility, was intended to serve as the
coordinating center for humanitarian donations to the Republic of Croatia during the recent
conflict.
The approximately 650 cubic meters of material (243 tons) in the warehouse consists of
ampules, glass bottles, tablets and capsules and waste packaging. There are no cytostatics,
narcotics or infectious/biologic waste included in the remaining inventory. The material is well
sorted and pharmaceuticals have been seperated from medical supplies. The facility is clean dry
and completely secure. All supplies are stacked on wood pallets off of the floor. From the total
of 243 tons of material, 175 tons requires incineration, the balance is planned as landfill.
The warehouse has significant quantities of U.S., French, German, Italian, Russian and
other nation's production. Expired products in large quantities included Capozide, Inderal,
Tylenol Sinus, Tylenol Cold, Kaopectate, Dalacin Vaginal Cream, Terfenadine, Nuprin, and
Naldecon.
In late 1998 and early 1999, a sorting experiment was conducted at the facility and is, in part,
the basis for the Croatian National Institute of Toxicolgy's working plan for the disposal of
expired pharmaceuticals.
2. Slavonski Brod
According to Croatian Institute of Toxicocolgy calculations, the Slavonski Brod hospital has
a stockpile of approximately 700 m3 of expired and waste pharmaceuticals. This stockpile is
located in a secure, clean and dry warehouse facility approximately 2-3 miles from the hospital .
T he consumable supplies have been partly sorted from the pharmaceuticals and all bulk
packaging and shipping material have been removed.
The medical waste consists almost entirely of expired pharmaceuticals with a minor amount
of discarded medical equipment.  The stock contains no cytostatics, biological/infectious
material or sharps. There is no evidence of narcotic medicines. According to the pharmacy
director, a Ministry of Health directive stipulates that all cytostatics and narcotics be removed
from pharamceutical deliveries upon receipt and be handled in a controlled environment. The
expired medicines are stored randomly (i.e., not sorted according to drug type or other
categorization)in various manufacturer boxes. The manufacturer boxes being utilized as storage



133
are filled with mixed products and do not indicate the origins of the contents. Nearly all material
appeared to be German in origin.
The Slavonski Brod facility indicated its willingness to serve as a collection point for
pharmaceutical refuse, enabling consolidation of the various smaller stockpiles of
pharmaceutical refuse located throughout the county. The centralized site could serve as a
separation point prior to transport to the incinerator.
3. Nova Gradiska
The Croatian Institute of Toxicology calculates that slightly less than 5 tons of
pharmaceutical waste is stored in an abandoned pig sty with no electrical lighting located on the
hospital grounds. The "warehouse" is damp, unlighted and has a dirt floor. The windows of the
facility have been boarded over to prevent trespassing.
The pharmaceutical waste appears to be unsorted and contains primarily expired
pharmaceuticals, minor amounts of discarded medical equipment, paper, hospital bed mattresses,
etc. According to the Pharmacist who is in charge of the site, the stock contains no
biologic/infectious material but may contain minor amounts of "sharps" (i.e., unused needles and
syringes which have expired prior to use). A general list of the stock was provided in Croatian.
The material appears to be stored in manufacturer boxes. The observable bulk of material
appeared to be of European manufacture.
4. Split Railway Cars
The Splitsko-Dalmatinska County Office for Labor, Health and Welfare has collected
approximately 178 metric tons of material from various health institutions throughout the
county. In 1994, the aforementioned Office signed a contract with the Croatian National
railways to store this material in 18 railway box cars parked on a siding near downtown Split.
Each rail car contains approximately 80 cubic meters of material. The waste product is not
secure and there is evidence of pilfering by addicts and scavengers in nearly every rail car.
Additionally, there is a real possibility of spontaneous combustion of the materials, summer
temperatures in the boxcars reaching as high as 140 degrees Farenheit according to Dr. Josko
Kalilic, Director for the Split County Labor, Health and Welfare Office. Given the location of
the material (i.e., adjacent to residential sections of Split) the population could be exposed to
toxic fumes in the event of fire. The possibility of fire and the access of addicts to disposed
needles at the site, make this stockpile a significant public health concern.
The medical and pharmaceutical waste is unsorted, disorganized and degrading due to
exposure to both moisture and high temperatures. In many cases tablets and capsules are
breaking down and liquids in ampules and bottles are crystallizing. The waste is packaged in
plastic garbage bags (many of which are breaking open), manufacturer boxes (that are
collapsing) or is scattered loose throughout the rail cars. There is a great deal of medical and
pharmaceutical rubbish lining the tracks where scavengers have broken through the wooden
walls of the rail cars. The material is a mixture of unused consumable/disposables (gauze,
needles, catheters, bandages, tape etc.) as well as pharmaceuticals in the form of tablets,



134
capsules, aerosol inhalers. There is some minor medical equipment such as thermometers,
bedpans, IV stands, etc. There is no evidence of cytostatic or narcotic medicines and according
to Dr. Kalilic, these have been sorted out. There are significant quantities of unused and still
1packaged sharps, primarily syringes with needles.
The bulk of the pharmaceutical and medical waste is European in origin-predominantly
f^rom France, Italy, and Germany (primarily France).
This is a priority site for the disposal Project not only for the public health risk it poses but
also due to the fact that the Croatian Rail Company requires the return of its freight cars and
would like the material removed at as an early a date as possible.
To this end, the World Health Organization, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and the
Split County Office for Labor, Health and Welfare conducted a seperation experiment designed
to measure cost in both terms of time and money. Data from this trial seperation revealed that it
required 10 workers (plus some volunteers) 19 days to sort one boxcar. Each worker required 13
hours to sort and separate 1 cubic meter of material at a cost of 16 kuna per hour. Based on this
information and this sorting methodology, it has been calculated, that the sorting/seperation
process for the 18 cars would cost approximately 150,000 German Marks.
5. Split Hospital "Firule" Basement
The Split hospital has a basement storage area containing approximately 20 cubic meters or
100 tons of pharmeceutical and medical waste. This waste, partially sorted, is relatively secure
and is in a clean and dry environment. Both consumables and pharmaceuticals are represented,
but not mixed. No cytostatics or narcotics are included nor was biologic or infectious waste.
Few if any sharps were observed.
Much of the material is from France, Germany and the United States in roughly equal
proportion. There is evidence of other international donors as well, primarily the UK. There are
significant quantities (perhaps 500 cases) of dressing sponges (4"x 4"), mostly unopened.
6. Dom Zdravlja (Polyclinic) Makarska
The polyclinic in Makarska has 33 metric tons of completely separated and sorted materials.
All waste material is pharmaceutical. It has been removed from its original packaging and is
stored in boxes which are numbered and labelled indicating contents and weight. As all material
has been sorted it was difficult to identify either the nature or origin of the waste. Visible waste
seemed to be primarily from France and Germany, which was confirmed by the Director of the
facility. No cytostaics, narcotics, sharps or biologic/infectious waste are stored in the facility.
7. Rijeka Hospital
Rijeka Hospital has three storage sites of pharmaceutical and medical waste totalling nearly
730 cubic meters.  Of these two were visited.  In the hospital complex, medical and
pharmaceutical waste have been stored in an unused bomb shelter. The underground facility has



135
leaking ground water, no electricity and dirt/gravel floors.- The waste consists of mixed
consumables and pharmaceuticals and is completely wet. The boxes and packaging have
degraded to a virtual rotten "mud". There is no evidence of previous sorting and the stocks
contained a small number of sharps and aerosol inhalers but no infectious/biologic material,
cytostatics or narcotics. There is a large quantity of unused IV bags containing water for
rehydration. By far the mass of the material consists of tablets, capsules and injectables. The
bulk of the material appeared to be Italian and German in origin.
Approximately 20 kilometers from the hospital, an additional 75-100 ton stockpile is
warehoused in an abandoned hospital building. Much of the material is in its original boxes. The
majority of supplies in this facility are consumables and disposables that include syringes, gauze,
tape and bandages, as well as sanitary napkins in very large quantities and about 100 large boxes
of bandages that expired in 1963. The waste material is unsorted, but is dry and secure.



136
ANNEX 9
Croatia Health System Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                  Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$215.8             $346.8
B. Project Schedule                         Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  20 months
First Bank mission (identification)          10/1998           10/25/1997
Appraisal mission departure                  02/1999           05/01/1999
Negotiations                                 03/1999           07/12/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness               09/2000            01/03/2000
Prepared by: Verdon S. Staines, Program Tearn Leader
Preparation assistance
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Chris Lovelace                         Director, ECSHD
Annette Dixon                          Health Sector Leader
Verdon S. Staines                      Team Leader
Virginia Jackson                       Operations Officer
Ross Pavis                             Operations Analyst
Dorothy Clift                          Team Assistant
Teresa Ho                              Principal Health Specialist
Jack Langenbrunner                     Sr. Health Finance Specialist
Richard James                          Financial Management Specialist
Ramesh Govindaraj                      Pharmaceutical Specialist
Thomas Novotny                         Public Health Specialist
Gyorgy Novotny                         Procurement Specialist



137
ANNEX 10
Croatia Health System Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission BTOs, Aide Memoires, and Consultant Reports from Preparation through
Negotiations. Email correspondence among staff and consultants.
C. Documents produced by the Country:
Address of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Frankjo Tudman, on the State of
the Nation, Croatian National Parliament, Zagreb, January 1999.
Croatian National Institute of Public Health, Croatian Health Service Yearbook, Zagreb,
1998.
Croatian National Institute of Technology, Disposition of Drugs with Expired Date of
Use, Zagreb.
Croatia Ministry of Finance, Annual Report of the Ministry of Finance, 1994-97, Zagreb,
1998.
MED-EKON, d.o.o., Primary Health Care 1: Promoting and Strengthening Professional
Competence, Zagreb, 1996.
Ministry of Health, Government of Croatia, Croatia 2000: Project Health: Approach to
the reform of Health Care System, Zagreb, May 1998.



138
ANNEX 1'l
Status of Bank Group Operations in Croatia
Operations Portfolio
As of 19-Apr-99
Difference
Between
Original Amount in US$         expected
Fisc                                                       Millions               and actual
al                                                                              disbursement
s a/
Project Year       Borrower              Purpose
ID                                                     IBRD    IDA   Cancel  Undisbu          Orig
ations   rsed     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 1
Active
Projects
HR-PE-   1999 GOVT. OF CROATIA   RAILWAY MOD. &           101.02    0.00    0.00   91.46   0.00   0.00
39161                              REST.
HR-PE-   1998 MINISTRY OF          INVESTMENT RECOVERY    30.00   0.00    0.00   25.80  13.67   0.00
40139          FINANCE
HR-PE-   1998 CROATIAN BANK FOR  MUNIC. ENVIR.             36.30    0.00    0.00   35.59   1.57   0.00
43444          RECONST             INFRA.
HR-PE-   1998 CROATIA              EAST. SLAVONIA REC.    40.60    0.00    0.00   39.75   1.52   0.00
48983          GOVERNMENT
HR-PE-   1997 REPUBLIC OF          EMER. TRNSP/MINE       102.00   0.00    0.00   45.47  44.01   0.00
44457          CROATIA             CL.
HR-PE-   1997 REPUBLIC OF          EFSAL                   95.00    0.00    0.00   43.81  49.01   0.00
8327           CROATIA
HR-PE-   1997 GOVT. OF CROATIA   COASTAL FOREST            42.00   0.00    0.00   38.87  32.57   0.00
8334                               RECON
HR-PE-   1996 REPUBLIC OF          CAPITAL MARKET DEV.      9.50   0.00    0.00       .53   1.51   0.00
40142         CROATIA
HR-PE-   1996 REPUBLIC OF          TECHNICAL                5.00   0.00    0.00    1.74   1.75   0.00
40830          CROATIA             ASSISTANCE
HR-PE-   1996 REPUBLIC OF          FARMER SUPPORT          17.00    0.00    0.00   12.52   5.38   0.00
8335           CROATIA             SERVI



139
Difference
Between
Original Amount in US$       expected
Flsc                                                  Millions              and actual
al                                                                        disbursement
s a/
Project Year      Borrower            Purpose
ID                                                 IBRD    IDA  Cancel Undisbu        Orig
ations   rsed    Frm Rev'd
HR-PE-   1995 REPUBLIC OF       HEALTH PROJECT        40.00   0.00    0.00   3.64   3.65  0.00
39450        CROATIA
HR-PE-   1995 REPUBLIC OF       HIGHWAY SECTOR        80.00   0.00    0.00  18.29   8.68   0.00
8329         CROATIA
HR-PE-   1994 REPUBLIC OF       EMERGENCY            128.00   0.00    0.00   1.70   1.72   0.00
8328         CROATIA            RECONSTRUC
HR-PE-   1989 ISTRIAN WW & PULA  ISTRIA WS            28.00   0.00    0.00  12.76  12.74   0.00
39002        WW
Total                                                754.42   0.00    0.00  371.93 177.7   0.00
8
Active      Closed      Total
Projects    Projects
Total Disbursed           346.60       2.91      349.51
(IBRD and IDA):
of which                   15.10       2.91       18.01
has been repaid:
Total now held by         739.32       0.00      739.32
IBRD and IDA:
Amount sold :               0.00        0.00       0.00
Of which repaid             0.00       0.00        0.00
Total Undisbursed         371.93       0.00      371.93
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99



Annex 12
Croatia at a glance                                                                8/13/99
Europe &    Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-  :
Croatia      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         4.6       476       571                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    4,610     2,320      4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       21.1      1,106     2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          0.2        0.2       1,5
Labor force (%)                                         0.0        .5        t.9     GNP                               Gross
per    -       -         -      primary
MQst recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (16 of population below natone poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)                57         67        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73         69        70
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                 9         25        30
Child mainutrition (% of children under 5)               ..         ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% of population)                  96          .        T.  7
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..         ..       15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoo-age population)     86         92       107          C Croatia
Male                                                  87          ..        . -             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                86
KEY ECONOMIC: RATIOS an:d LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997 
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                             ..        .,       1i.9      20.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..       ..       21.9      28.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..       .,      40.2       42.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       ..       12,6      13.1
Gross national savings/GDP                      .         ,.      17.6      16.9
Current account balance/GOP                               ,,     -4 4      -11.7
Interest paymerrts/GDP                          ,.       ..       0.7        1.1     Domestc                      Investment
Total debtVGOP                                  ..       ..       24.8      33 9     Savings
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       4.8        9.3
Presert value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      21.0
Present value of debt/exports                   .         ..     44.9
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annLfal growth)
GDP                                    .      -1.6      6.0        6.5       2.5         -     Croatia
GNP, per capita                       ,,        .13    10.3       4.3        2.5 - Upper-middle-income group
Expsrts of goods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..       10.3       9.6     10
Industry                                        ..       ..      33.2       34.2        .
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..       22.3      22.6         -    92        94   95   96   97
Services                                        ..       ..       56.5      56.2     20
Pnvate consumption                             ..        ..      60.5       60.7    -30 -
General government consumption                  ..       ..      27.0       26.2                     GDr      0-GDF
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      49.7       57.3
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..    -6.7          ..
Industry                                       ..   -12.6
Manufacturing                                 ..   -12.9          ..         .
Services                                        ..    -3.0
Private consumption                            ..        ..         .. ..--
General government consumption                  ..       ..         .._.._
Gross domestic investment                       ..       .,         .,                     92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..         .                        -Exports         0- Imports
Gross national product                          ..    -1.5         6.2       6.2
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (/)
(% change)                                                                           2,000 -
Consumer prces                                  ..        ..        3.6      3.7    1.500 -
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..        ..       3.5       6.9    1,000 -
Government finance                                                                    S00 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      48.9      48.0               92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..        ..        5.4       4.6                   GDP deflator   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..       -0.4     -1.1
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997 
(USS millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..       ..    4,546      4,206      10,oo 7
Capital goods                                                                                                              ..
Chemicals                                                                            s,ooo-5,000
Manufactures                                                                        6,000-
Total imports (cif)                              ..       ..    7,788      9,104      4000
Food                                           .         ..                   .r
Fuel and energy                                                                     2,000 -j
Capital goods                                  ..       ..         ..        ..        0- L.LE
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Excort orice index (1995=00                     ..        ..9
ImDort Drice index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        ..        ..                  Exports     c Imports
Terms of trade (1 995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..    8,024      8,199       8
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..    9,911    11,402
Resource balance                                 ..       ..   -1,887    -3,202        2
Net income                                       ..       ..       -21       -21      - -                          _____995 7
-2- 91   92   93   94   90   96   97
Net current transfers                           ..        ..     1,028       872       4 --
-0-
Current account balance                         ..        ..      -881    -2,352       3
-10
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..     1,304     2,539     -12-
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..      -423      -188      -14
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millions)          ..        ..    2.314      2.539
Conversion rate (DEC. locaVUSS)                  .        ..        5.4      6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997 
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             0        0      4,930     6,827
IBRD                                           0        0        195       276
IDA                                            0        0          0         0G547A2762s2
0: 349
Total debt service                               0        0        450       878
IBRD                                           0        0         26        29                                      E
IDA                                            0        0          0         0                          /           E: 1,073
Composition of net resource flows
Offical grants                                 0        0          0         0
Official creditors                             0        0         23        78
Private creditors                              0        0        455     2,128
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..       509       196
Portfolio equity                               0        0         27       174             F 4,350
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0        176       125     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        0        105       115     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0         16        14     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0        0         89       100
Interest payments                              0        0         11        14
Net transfers                                  0        0         78        86
Development Economics                                                                                                    8113199



s ~~~A U S T R I A ~r><* DIR 05
1 r. >'t ~~~~~~~~HUNGARY  
~~~ , ~~~Ljubljana                                                                                                                              HEALT    SYTE    PMROJECT
g   b  _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E . REP   OFWD   
~~~~~~~~~~SLOVENI3A                        ARNYDGOSLAVIA 
L                                                                                                                         (SERB./MONT.)                      -    AI ROADS
1g:~~~~~ WEOAR- 0 AO ON



