Report No. PID7005
Project Name                     Croatia-Health System Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Health, Nutrition and Population
Project ID                       HRPE51273
Borrower                         Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health/Project Implementation
Unit (PIU)
Baruna Trenka 6, Zagreb
TEL:     (385-1) 45 91 333
FAX:     (385-1) 43 10 67
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           October 20, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         January 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives
The project development objective is to increase the efficiency, effectiveness
and financial sustainability of Croatia's health care system by advancing
further the process of systemic health-sector reform. The Health System
Project would assist Croatia to implement a systematic program of medium-term
reform while pursuing key immediate development objectives in health and
financing. The ongoing reform of the health system will reflect three overall
priorities. The first is to reduce the high prevalence of avoidable illness
through continued emphasis on health promotion, further attention to primary
and secondary prevention of disease, and expanded public health measures. A
second is to create a delivery system that offers a range of affordable inter-
ventions that is better matched : (a) to the major causes of illness,
disability and death among the population and (b) to the ongoing level of
resources available within Croatia. The third is to exploit avenues for
promoting health that lie outside the health sector itself.
2.      Description
The Health System Project would include measures to reinforce the gains from
the first Health Project, plus investments to support reforms in the hospital
sub-sector as part of the overall medium-term reform agenda, plus an evolving
set of policy changes to promote a more sustainable fiscal and financing
framework for health. An important part of this strategy will be a phased
series of studies that will be essential to various reforms.
Project components would include:
1) Service Delivery, with sub-components for primary health care reform,
hospital sector reform, and standards and accreditation;
2) Health Care Financing with sub-components for sustainable financing and
provider incentives;
3) Healthy Lifestyles, with sub-components for health promotion and cross



sectoral activities; and
4) Sector Policy and Governance, with sub-components for sector-wide
management and leadership capacity, health information systems, public
information and reform advocacy, and monitoring and evaluation of reforms.
3.      Financing
Government of Croatia            US$  7.5 million
IBRD                             US$30.0 million
TOTAL                            US$37.5 million
4.      Implementation
The Project would be implemented over a five year period by the Ministry of
Health (MOH) in close coordination and collaboration with related health
authorities at the central and local levels. Overall responsibility for
implementation of the Project would rest with the MOH.
5.      Sustainability
The Project will build upon and expand the scope of successful activities
carried out under the first Health Project. The Health System Project will
establish a basis for medium- to long-term sustainability by supporting a
rational approach to sector planning and by promoting clinical excellence that
is consistent with sustainable resource levels and by professionalizing sector
management. However, factors critical for the sustainability of project
benefits include continuing political and professional commitment to the goals
of the reform process.
6.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A first Health Project for Croatia was approved by the World Bank Board on
January 26, 1995 for on-lending to the Health Insurance Institute (HII).
Experience gained and lessons learned from the project demonstrate the
critical importance of context-specific and efficient implementation
arrangements, as well as the need for full Government commitment. Project
implementation and management capacities are given particular importance in
this Project, as shown by the emphasis placed on staff training and support to
management for all activities. Based on experience with the on-going project,
an important lesson learned is the need for intense and sustained support to
the PCU in the early stages of implementation. The PCU would be supported by
high quality technical assistance and by the Bank's health sector team for
Croatia.
7.      Poverty Category
Program of targeted interventions.
8.      Environmental Aspects
This is a Category C Project: "No appreciable environmental impact." The
project will primarily affect financial, organizational and managerial factors
with no discernable effect on the environment. Appropriate Bank guidelines,
however, will be followed with regard to hospital sanitation and waste
disposal procedures.
9.      Program Objective Categories
The Project falls into the Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction and
Human Resources Development (100%).
10.     Contact Point:
-2-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Verdon S. Staines, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W., H8-055
Washington, DC 20433
TEL:     (202) 473-0878
FAX:     (202) 477-1996
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 30, 1998.
- 3 -



