Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4513 HR
Loan Agreement
(Health System Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4513 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  2
(a)
“CIHI” means the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance or any successor 
thereto; 
(b)
“CIPH” means the Croatian Institute of Public Health or any successor 
thereto; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(f)
“Pharmaceutical Waste” means all drugs (except narcotics and 
cytostatics), lotions, creams, and other ointments; packaging materials and boxes; 
unused consumable materials such as gauze, bandages and packaged food items; unused 
disposable consumable items such as needles; syringes that have expired prior to use, 
catheters, and paper; and minor amounts of discarded medical equipment;
(g)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health or any successor thereto; 
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“PUTO” means a limited liability company for thermal processing of 
technological waste in Zagreb, registered with the Commercial Court of Zagreb on July 
10, 1997, under Registration No. 080155768 or any successor thereto; and 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-nine million Dollars ($29,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
Page  3
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, public 
utility, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
Page  4
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through PMU, shall establish and at all 
times maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
Page  5
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established and is operational in a form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank; 
(b)
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank have been selected for the 
purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(c)
Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank has been 
opened. Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5
10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Cable address: 
Telex:
862-21215
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  6
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By /s/ Miomir 
Žužul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   2,517,750
70%
(2)
Goods
  13,535,190
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 78% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Technical services
   2,823,750
78%
for Part C of the Project
Page  7
(4)
Consultants' services
   7,224,210
100% 
(including auditing) 
and training
 (5)
Fee
     290,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   2,609,100
TOTAL
  29,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories 1, 2, and 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 
30, 1999; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category 3 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower: 
(i)
submitted to the Bank the list of up to twenty-five (25) sites, 
selected in 
accordance with criteria agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Bank, from 
which the pharmaceutical waste will be collected and 
disposed;
(ii)
developed a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for transportation of 
the 
pharmaceutical waste under Part C of the Project, including 
proposals for the 
containers to be used for these purposes; 
(iii)
disposed all toxic fly ash that has been stored at PUTO on or 
before the date 
of this Agreement;
(iv)
developed a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for final disposal of 
toxic 
fly-ash produced in the process of incineration of 
pharmaceutical waste under 
Part C of the Project; and
(v)
developed an expenditure structure, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
pharmaceutical waste incineration and ash disposal under 
Part C of the 
Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the contracts 
referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) services 
provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; and (iii) services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Page  8
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project management report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  9
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
Page  10
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to enhance Croatia’s capacity to achieve a more 
effective, efficient, and financially sustainable health system in the medium term.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Health Services Delivery 
(1)
Primary health-care Development of pilot group practices and associated changes 
in health-care financing arrangements in Koprivnica through provision of medical 
equipment, training and technical assistance and renovation of selected pilot sites.  
(2)
Hospitals and secondary services 
(a)
Technical assistance to develop a strategy for the restructuring and 
rationalization of the Koprivnica county hospital. 
(b)
Development of demonstration programs and associated changes in 
health-care financing arrangements for alternative levels of medical care which will 
include day surgery, hospice, respite, home and ambulatory care through renovation of 
the existing facilities and provision of training and equipment. 
(c)
Development of heart-care program through selected sites renovation and 
provision of resuscitation/monitoring equipment for twenty county emergency rooms, 
equipment for two cardiac diagnostic centers in Zagreb for preventive, diagnostic and 
treatment services, emergency telecommunications equipment, technical assistance and 
training.
Part B:
Public Health 
(1)
Technical assistance and training for monitoring of health services, status and 
risks, for data reporting and analysis, and for program evaluation. 
(2)
Support for national health promotion planning and strategy development, media 
health promotion campaign and health promotion activities of CIPH through selected 
sites renovation and provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.
Part C:
Pharmaceutical Waste Disposal 
Provision of technical services for disposal of pharmaceutical waste. 
Part D:
System-wide Initiatives 
(1)
Support for development of health information systems, both at national level 
and in Koprivnica, through provision of technical assistance, training and equipment. 
(2)
Support to MOH, CIHI and CIPH for studies and capacity-building to develop and 
implement a nation-wide health policy and planning systems, new standards and clinical 
and pharmaceutical protocols and quality assurance through provision of works, 
technical assistance, training and equipment. 
Part E:
Project Management 
Project implementation support for PMU through provision of technical 
assistance, training, equipment, and financing of incremental operating costs.
Page  11
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2005
1,450,000
through December 15, 2014
1,450,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Page  12
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,940,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping  
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $530,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Books, library materials, intellectual property rights, spare parts and services 
for incineration and disposal of pharmaceuticals costing $3,280,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  13
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C above, to each contract to 
be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of Part C 
above, and to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Part C above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier of any contract under 
shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for health facility site assessment under Part A of the Project 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, and for 
pharmaceutical waste disposal price verification under Part C of the Project estimated 
to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit of the Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $130,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for community health plan study and social assessment under Part A of 
the Project, and for project management under Part E of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.  
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;  
(c)
review with the Bank, by August 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and
(d)
establish within MOH and maintain at all times during the execution of 
the Project the PMU with staff and other resources satisfactory to the Bank and which 
shall be responsible for Project management and implementation.
