Report No. PID9362
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Child Welfare Reform Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Assistance
Project ID                       BGPE64536
Borrower(s)                      MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Implementing Agency
Address MOLSP
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
(MOLSP)
2 Triyaditza Street, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Mr. Tasko Ermenkov
Tel: 359-2-933-24-04; 088-527-597
Fax: 359-2-980-65-69
Email: ncsc-pmu@mlsp.government.bg
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                October 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 18, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 7, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Children's Rights: Bulgaria ratified the UN CRC in 1991. Despite the fact
that over the past ten years efforts have been made by Bulgarian
Governments to bring child welfare and protection services in line with
international standards derived from the UN CRC, and the obligations of
Member States of the Council of Europe, the institutionalization of
children is still the mainstay of child protection services in Bulgaria.
Unfortunately, children are not the priority of the current residential
care system and there are conflicts of interest, between maintaining the
institutions and staff employed, the budget for such purposes, and the
true welfare of the child.Institutionalization: The percentage of
institutionalized children in Bulgaria is among the highest in Europe at
2.15 percent. At present, 35,123 children are in public institutionalized
care (see Table 1). Most of these children are abandoned for economic or
social reasons, some are physically or mentally disabled, less than 1
percent are orphans. Conditions in the institutions for infants and for
older children vary, ranging from the reasonably good, to the simply
appalling. Children brought up in poor conditions in these institutions,
without preparation for independent living are vulnerable to become
involved in crime, prostitution, drugs and exploitation, underdevelopment,
mental disability, unemployment, homelessness and even suicide, and find
it difficult to integrate effectively in society once they leave at age
18. Table 1. Children in InstitutionsInstitutionsAge of ChildrenNumber of
Childrenl. Ministry of Health (MOH)
0 - 74,2652. Ministry of Education and Science
(MES)                                        3 - 1827,1483. Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP)             3 - 183,4054. Ministry of
Justice (MOJ)           14 - 181455. Shelters and Day Centers for Street
Children*          3 - 16160       TOTAL35,123Source: Compiled from



official data                    *Data provided by NGOsSchool Drop-outs:
According to information provided by the MES a further 45,000 children are
dropping out of school each year, and the number of children at risk of
severe social and family marginalisation is almost 90,000. In 1992, there
were 87,000 new-borns, of which only 63,000 enrolled in first grade in
1999. School drop-out rates are presented in Table 2. The primary reasons
for institutionalization, the phenomenon of street children and the
growing number of school drop-outs include: social exclusion, economic
hardship, unemployment, family break-down, alcoholism, and domestic
violence. Table 2. Drop-Out Rates School
Yearl98919901991199219931994199519961997 Drop-out rate
03.03.02.93.53.33.33.53.43.3Source: 'Out-of-School Youth in Bulgaria',
Mission Report, Sofia, February 1999, UNICEF Regional Office for CEE, CIS
and the Baltics. Street Children: The past ten years have seen the
emergence of the phenomenon of street children. At present, some 3,000 to
5,000 are estimated to be living or working in the streets. Recently,
there has been a tendency to limit institutionalization of children from
families, who resort to placement in institutions for reasons of low
income only. At the same time, no alternatives to family support are
offered. Together these factors have led to the emergence of street
children. The public care system has proved unable to address the issues
stemming from the economic transition and a growing number of children are
living and working in the street. Ethnic Minorities: Although official
statistics do not exist, it is generally observed that some 60-80 percent
of institutionalized and street children are Roma. The Roma in
particular, have been particularly affected by unemployment and
impoverishment during the years since transition. The Roma have a larger
number of children than ethnic Bulgarians, and a much higher incidence of
poverty: in 1997, 84 percent of the Roma were living in poverty compared
to 36 percent of the population as a whole (Bulgaria-Poverty during the
Transition, Report No 18411, 07/06/99).High Costs of the Current System:
In addition to the social and economic costs of institutionalization of
children, there are also significant financial costs. The annual cost per
child, placed in an institution under the MOH was US$ 1,357 in 1998, and
US$ 1,046 in an institution under the MOLSP. These costs are
substantially higher than the cost per child in a family, which was
estimated at US$ 631 in 1998 according to the Statistical Yearbook 1998
(National Statistical Institute). There is a high financial and social
cost of sustaining the current public care system of childcare
institutions. Some of Bulgaria's most valuable human resources are being
marginalised as children emerge from the public care system with
inadequate education and insufficient skills to find productive
employment, emotionally scarred, and unable to fully participate in
society. Lack of Standards and Regulations: There is no standardized
national set of criteria for child welfare, which has lead to low quality
of care, lack of monitoring and assessment and misplacements in certain
cases. There is no unified and standardized database or MIS on
institutionalized children, which makes access to information and
efficient interventions difficult.Limited Alternative Services: There are
few other services available for families in economic and social
distress. The alternatives to institutional care do not reach the larger
part of people in need of care. There are only very limited social work
services, inadequate cash or in-kind benefits and few community-based
preventative resources such as counseling and family support centers.
Foster family care has not yet become popular in Bulgaria. Day care
-2 -



centers for children with or without disabilities and other forms of care
and prevention are not widely accessible. Over the past years, efforts
have been made by NGOs, donors and some municipalities to develop
community-based services as alternatives to institutionalization and to
address the phenomenon of street children. Despite these efforts,
improvement in the overall situation of child welfare has been
small.Insufficient Staff Skills: The institutional childcare system
suffers from an acute shortage of experienced and well-trained
professionals with the necessary knowledge and skills relevant to the
specific needs of the child and the modern childcare requirements. The
professional structure, training and skills of staff working in public
care institutions, are not responsive to the specific needs of children in
care. There is a significant deficit of skilled social workers, managers
and para-professionals in for example, needs assessment, fostering and
adoption, and family support.     Negative Public attitudes:   To a large
extent, poor child care practices in institutions are due to public
perceptions, inherited from the past and a consequence of the lack of
options other than institutionalization. There is a lack of information
and understanding in society of the problems of children brought up in
social care institutions. These children are often marginalized, because
of negative public attitudes. Diffusion of Responsibility: The
responsibility for child welfare issues is divided between five ministries
and municipal authorities, making intervention and coordination very
difficult and creating institutional structures, which do not address the
overall needs of children. During their lifetime children in public care
go from one institution to another governed by different ministries, none
of which put the child's interest first.Government Initiatives To
Date:Recognizing the social and economic costs, as well as the general
negative impact of the current public care system on children, the
Bulgarian Government and the Parliament have demonstrated increasing
interest in addressing these issues, abiding by the principles of the UN
CRC. On May 31, 2000, the Child Protection Act (CPA) was adopted by the
Bulgarian Parliament. The CPA creates the GACP, the NCCP (as a mechanism
to involve all stakeholders in policy formulation) and the CPDs at the
local level to deliver services. The CPA defines those responsible for
the organization, provision and monitoring of the child and family support
services and the measures for child protection and the decision-making
process.   The CPA introduces police protection, for missing, abused and
street children. It also addresses the issue of the position and
representation of the child in administrative and court proceedings. The
decision-making process regarding the measures for child protection is a
combination of administrative and court procedures, which presupposes a
new role for the courts. A CWR Strategy, supported by the Bank, is being
approved by the Council of Ministers (COM), which will reform child care
in Bulgaria in line with UN CRC and EU standards and which will be
supported by this project. COM's approval of the De-institutionalization
Master-plan (draft attached as Annex 12) is a condition of Loan
Negotiations. The Government has established a Project Steering Committee
(PSC), comprising Deputy Ministers of all 5 ministries involved, to
oversee the implementation of the CWR.The updated Program of the
Government (Bulgaria 2001) envisages support for the development of
children from socially disadvantaged families and the creation of
satisfactory living conditions for children whose support is provided by
the state. This strategic direction of the Government involves the
development of improved childcare and child-protection forms for the
- 3 -



children living in institutions and in families at risk.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve child welfare and protect
childrens' rights in Bulgaria through promoting community-based child
welfare approaches such as de-institutionalization, abandonment prevention
and street children services, as cost-effective alternatives to
institutionalized child care. Thereby, the project will facilitate
meeting some of the human rights elements of European Union (EU) accession
and the fulfillment of its commitment to the United Nations (UN)
Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This project is an opportunity for the Bank to lend support in
collaboration with other donors to ensure the government's reform program
is community-based and implemented with a fully comprehensive approach for
achieving significant and sustainable child welfare reform. The Bank
project would provide assistance to complement other development partners
to bolster a comprehensive program that does not overlap or leave out
targeted areas of the reform. The Bank can use its wider development
experience and influence to catalyze more effective collaborative networks
in support of the governments integrative strategy for reforming child
welfare services and protection.
4. Description
The project will support the Bulgarian Government in reforming the child
protection system, through developing services at municipal level,
reducing the flow of children into institutions, improving the quality of
care for institutionalized children, developing alternative care systems
and assisting older institutionalized children adapt to the community as
productive citizens. It will also focus on street children and Roma who
are population groups particularly at-risk of poverty and social
deprivation. The project would build upon existing smaller-scale
initiatives of other donors and NGOs.
1. Capacity Building
2. De-institutionalization
3. Abandonment Prevention
4. Street Children Services
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               5.29
IBRD                     11.5
IDA
EC-PHARE -- EC
PROGRAM FOR CENTRAL
EUROPE                   3.05
GOVERNMENT OF
UNITED KINGDOM           2.31
GOV. OF JAPAN
(EXCLUDING MINISTRY
OF FINANCE -
PHRD GRANTS)             1.06
Total Project Cost       23.2
-4-



6. Implementation
4.1. Implementation periodThe project will be implemented over 3 years
commencing January 2001. 4.2. Executive AgenciesThe MOLSP has overall
responsibility for the project which it will execute through the PMU. A
Project Steering Committee (PSC) comprising of the Deputy Ministers of
MOLSP, MES, MOH, MOI, MOJ and the Minister responsible for the National
Council on Ethnic and Demographic Issues (NCEDI) has been set up to ensure
a coherent multi-sectoral approach to the overall project.At municipal
level, the CPDs, with technical assistance and coordination provided by
the PMU, would implement small-scale project activities (e.g. contracting
services from NGOs/private service providers) and would manage and
supervise the newly created child welfare services, while also playing a
key gate-keeping role which would contribute to the reduction of the
numbers of institutionalized children. The selected municipalities would
contribute to the project implementation by providing buildings and
terrain for the development of agreed project
interventions.Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would participate in
the project development and the provision of services for children,
ensuring the quality of the provided childcare. NGO services for specific
project interventions will be contracted by the PMU or by the CPDs.4.3.
Project coordinationThe PMU will oversee the implementation of the
project, under the guidance of the PSC, in achieving the performance
indicators specified in Annex 1. It will coordinate and assess
sub-projects targeting the development of services for children and
families, including procurement and financial management, M&E. The PMU
will coordinate and support the development of the CWR MIS, and the
management training for project implementation at the MSAS level. The PMU
will be responsible for ensuring transparency and free flow of information
to the participants and beneficiaries of the CWR, and for the
implementation of the public awareness campaign. In carrying out the
above the PMU will liase and work closely with the PSC, the National
Police Department (NPD), representatives of the five line Ministries, the
GACP, donor organizations and NGOs. A Project Coordinator (PC) has been
appointed within the MOI to oversee implementation of those sub-components
under Component III to be implemented by the NPD. An agreement on project
cooperation between the MOLSP and the NPD, satisfactory to the Bank is a
Condition of Effectiveness.Adequate systems for information management,
for M&E of the project implementation will be established in order to
ensure compatibility of all the activities with Bulgarian legislation,
Bank and EU integration requirements. The PMU will directly coordinate
with other donors. Greater project implementation effectiveness will be
achieved through the regular submission of progress reports (according to
the agreed format in the Project Implementation Manual - PIM) as well as
through direct donor involvement in the supervision missions. Preparation
of the PIM, satisfactory to the Bank, is a Condition of Negotiations. The
Bank together with MOF and PSC will review the progress and project
impact, and prepare annual agreement on budgetary allocations. All
changes to the PIM should be approved by the Bank. The Bank must approve
all sub-project feasibility studies for Components II, III and IV. 4.4.
Procurement and disbursement.All procurement and disbursement procedures
will be in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines and will be
documented in the PIM. Procurement packages have been identified and are
listed in Annex 6. Fixed price contracts will be used for NGO service
provision.The Government will establish and maintain a project financial
management system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank (LACI
- 5 -



requirements).   The project annual financial statements will be audited
each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Conclusion of a contract with selected
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, is a Condition of Effectiveness.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its
sub-components. The accounts will also reflect the status of payment
against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
replenishments made by the Bank; and sources of funding used.     Board
Presentation conditions include: (i) appointment of the Accountant and
Financial Manager, with TOR and CVs satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
installation and customization of the accounting software system and
provision of appropriate training. Copies of the audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's
fiscal year. The audit report will cover both the compiled account of
expenditure incurred during the fiscal year as well as the Statement of
Expenses (SOEs) used for withdrawals from the SA. Special attention will
be taken to confirm the transparency and accountability of the use of
funds from the beneficiaries.4.6. Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements.The M&E system will be based on the MIS developed within the
PMU. Information on project progress will be collected through progress
reports and supervision missions, and will be distributed to all
participants. An underlying principle of the M&E system will be the
external evaluation of the services offered, financed under Component I of
the Project.Two Project Impact Surveys (one at mid-term, the other on
project completion), will be supplemented by a series of beneficiary
assessments (undertaken every six months) targeted to the pilot
municipalities. These will strengthen the M&E feedback mechanisms during
the life of the project. A project-specific MIS is being designed by a
specialist (financed under the Japanese PHRD Grant) to serve as the key
project monitoring tool. The PMU would be responsible for monitoring
progress against specific performance and impact monitoring indicators as
summarized in Annex 1 and developed further in the PIM. PMU must submit
Project Management Report (PMR) to the Bank from March 31, 2001 and
quarterly thereafter.
7. Sustainability
The financial sustainability of the project is directly related to the
establishment of appropriate schemes for funding of the various activities
and services for children and families. Of great importance is the
establishment of local level mechanisms, allowing funding of the local
programs with municipal sources, mechanisms for redistribution and
reallocation of the funds from one type of child care to another, as well
as supporting "back-up" mechanisms in case of financial and economic
crises at local level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following experiences and lessons have been reviewed and addressed in
project design. The sources of the lessons are given in parentheses: G =
Global Development Experience; B = Bulgarian Development Experience; and C
= Child Welfare Reform Experience.Project Complexity: Complex projects
are more prone to failure (G). Unfortunately CWR in Bulgaria is
inherently complex stemming from the division of responsibilities for
child welfare between the five line Ministries, the municipalities and the
many inter-related dimensions of child welfare. CWR projects are
potentially risky as they require complex coordination and place an
- 6 -



additional emphasis on project monitoring. The project addresses this
issue by simplifying the implementation arrangements through the
establishment of a single PMU, under the MOLSP, with an operational
linkage to CPDs at the municipal level, and giving special attention to
the development of a national MIS and M&E system.Integrated Approach: The
issue of improving child welfare has many inter-related aspects, including
issues of health and nutrition, living conditions, education and training
(C). Therefore, to achieve a sustainable impact, it is necessary to
address the problem on many fronts simultaneously. To make a difference
there must be a critical mass of inter-related interventions at the local
level, rather than scattered uncoordinated interventions spread across a
larger area. The project will promote integrated activities in a
relatively small number of municipalities (7 initially) in order to
demonstrate the positive effects of an integrated approach. Partnership
and Donors: In a complex field such as CWR, different donors and NGOs can
bring complementary skills together to make a larger impact than a single
financing agent alone (G, C). The project design and development reflects
a continuing consultation process with the a number of donors, ranging
from UNDP and UNICEF during design, EU on policy issues and the creation
of the GACP, UK DFID on community policing, CWR and social exclusion
issues. There has been regular information sharing between the CWR
participants and joint work in preparing the relevant studies. The
project design is the result of the cooperation and motivated involvement
of all stakeholders. This practice will be sustained and expanded during
project implementation.NGO Involvement: NGOs are frequently leaders in
innovation and pioneering new approaches in CWR and their approaches need
to be studied, and where cost-effective, replicated (C). A number of NGOs
are currently developing services to address prevention of abandonment and
institutionalization, de-institutionalization and alternative care.
Unfortunately most of these approaches are relatively small scale, albeit
important pilot interventions scattered in different parts of the
country. At the same time, in most of the cases, municipalities were not
involved enough in the project design and implementation. However, a
number of foreign NGOs active throughout the country have brought to
Bulgaria valuable TA from around the world and are developing projects
based on best foreign practice. The project will support the development
of community-based services, based on previous NGO experience by including
best practice projects and encouraging the development of municipality -
NGO partnership in the process of project design and
implementation.Beneficiary Involvement: Global experience demonstrates
the need for communities to be fully involved in the project cycle from
identification, through preparation, implementation and evaluation
especially in sensitive sectors such as CWR where behavioral change is
important (G,C).    A recurrent weakness in Bulgaria, demonstrated mainly
in extensive nation-wide projects, is that the connection with the
community is lost, which results in minimal positive impact. The project
addresses this issue through: (i) direct beneficiary involvement at all
stages under Component III; (ii) ongoing beneficiary assessments under
Component I; and (iii) extensive public awareness program to ensure the
involvement and the support of the local communities under Component I.
Ethnic Diversity and Social Inclusion: Addressing hard-core poverty in
Bulgaria requires the social inclusion of disadvantaged ethnic groups
(B). The lack of knowledge and understanding of the Roma population
culture have resulted in ineffective initiatives to address their needs at
the central and local level. The project will directly address the needs
-7 -



of the Roma and other disadvantaged ethnic groups through school
preparation programs, more attentive community policing, and community
development activities involving representatives from the community in
providing services to children and families.Sustainability: The lack of a
coherent approach to child welfare issues in the previous years has
resulted in isolated interventions on the part of the government, donors
and NGOs, and has raised sustainability as important issue (G, B, C).
Experience has shown that investment in institutions may strengthen them
without improving the quality of care for the children. Often, good
practice and human capital, acquired in the course of a project, is lost
after project completion. The Government's recognition of the need for a
coherent approach to child welfare issues led to the adoption of the CPA
and the establishment of a PSC. The project reflects these changes by
supporting policy development, enhancement of the information flows
throughout the CWR system and capacity building at all levels.M&E:
Establishing a unified M&E system, adequate to the needs of the reformed
CWR system, is a prerequisite for successful implementation (G). The M&E
system will address the issue of horizontal and vertical information flows
and will ensure a feedback mechanism to and reduce costs and is considered
a critically important project component.Project Readiness: Projects need
to have prepared up-front the sub-projects selection and design
(feasibility studies), straightforward procurement and disbursement
arrangements, clear flow of funds and implementation responsibilities,
PIM, MIS (including M&E arrangements and FMS) to make an effective start
(G,B). Intensive efforts are being made to complete all of these actions
prior to loan effectiveness. Comprehensive workshops will be held with
the selected municipalities to prepare for project implementation over the
period October - December 2000.Redundancies from Structural Reform: The
main stakeholders to lose out from CWR are the staff working in
institutions being closed down who become redundant - the opposition of
these staff can be the largest single brake on continued reform.
Recognizing this, Component II provides explicitly for retraining and
other support for workers being made redundant. Moreover, such workers
would be given some preference in foster-care training and the selection
by NGOs for alternative services. Public awareness campaigns will be
targeted to these workers to make them aware of alternative employment
opportunities and to explain the rationale of the reforms.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no significant environmental issues.
Scattered civil works, both new constructional refurbishment, for the
sub-projects under Components II, III and IV will be small.     However, all
necessary precautions will be taken to ensure that potentially toxic
substances such as asbestos or lead from paint will be handled in a safe
and environmentally sound manner, based upon experience already gained
through the RIF executed under the MOLSP. The RIF PMU will pass on this
experience to the CWR PMU through regular working contacts. Furthermore,
the construction plan will take steps to minimize waste, dust, and debris
from construction and to safely dispose of construction wastes. Only
licensed contractors will undertake such contracts.
11. Contact Point:
-8-



Task Manager
John A. Innes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-58-26
Fax: 202 477 33 87
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
27, 2000.
9



