Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21012 - BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 8.8 MILLION
(US$ 8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
CHILD WELFARE REFORM PROJECT
February 9, 2001
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 9, 2001)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BGN)
1 Lev = US$0.48
US$l = Leva 2.08
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                     MOLSP       Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
CIS           Commonwealth of Independent States              MSAS        Municipal Social Assistance Services
COM           Council of Ministers                            MW          Minor Works
CPA           Child Protection Act                            NCB         National Competitive Bidding
CPD           Child Protection Department                     NCCP        National Council for Child Protection
CRC           Convention on the Rights of the Child           NCEDI       National Council for Ethnic & Demographic
Issues
CW            Civil Works                                     NGO         Non-Govemment Organization
CWR           Child Welfare Reform                            NS          National Shopping
DFID          Department for International Development        PHRD        Population and Human Resources Development
(Japanese Grant)
EU            European Union                                  PIM         Project Implementation Manual
FMS           Financial Management System                     PMR         Project Management Report
GPN           General Procurement Notice                      PMU         Project Management Unit
IAS           International Accounting Standards              QBS         Quality based Selection
IC           Individual Consultants                           QCBS        Quality and Cost-based Selection
ICB           International Competitive Bidding               RIF         Regional Initiative Fund
ISA           International Standards on Auditing             SA          Special Account
JSDF          Japan Social Development Fund                   SACP        State Agency for Child Protection
LCCMJASB   Local Committee for Combat against Minors' and     SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
Juveniles' Anti-Social Behavior
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan                    SDC         Swiss Development Cooperation
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation                       SIF         Social Investment Fund
MES           Ministry of Education and Science               SOE         Statement of Expenses
MIS           Management Information System                   SPN         Special Procurement Note
MOF           Ministry of Finance                             TA          Technical Assistance
MOH           Ministry of Health                              UK          United Kingdom
MOI           Ministry of Interior                            UN          United Nations
MOJ           Ministry of Justice                             UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:        Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:       Michal J. Rutkowski
Task Team Leader:    John A. Innes



BULGARIA
CHILD WELFARE REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        12
3. Benefits and target population                                                       13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           18
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                              19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         21
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                            21
2. Financial                                                                           22
3. Technical                                                                           23
4. Institutional                                                                       23
5. Environmental                                                                       26
6. Social                                                                              29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  31
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      31
2. Critical risks                                                                       32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       33



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           34
2. Other                                                                             34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  78
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           81
Annex 11: Republic of Bulgaria: De-Institutionalization Strategy and Action-plan        83
Annex 12: Institutional Assessment                                                      88
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                                             92
Annex 14: Issues of Ethnicity                                                          105
Annex 15: Municipality Selection                                                       113
Annex 16: Financial Management System                                                  115
MAP(S)
Project Map - IBRD 31199



BULGARIA
Child Welfare Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: February 9, 2001                            Team Leader: John A. Innes
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink       Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P064536                               Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Development; Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): Euro 8.8 million (US$ 8.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        5.14           0.26           5.41
IBRD                                                            4.89           3.11           8.00
EC-PHARE -- EC PROGRAM FOR CENTRAL EUROPE                       0.59           2.59           3.18
GOVERNMENT OF UNITED KINGDOM                                    0.98            1.00          1.99
GOV. OF JAPAN (EXCLUDING MINISTRY OF FINANCE -                  0.76           0.25           1.00
PHRD GRANTS)
Financing Gap                                                   0.04            0.00          0.04
Total:                                                         12.41           7.22          19.62
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP)
Address: 2 Triyaditza Street, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Mr. Tasko Ermenkov
Tel: 359-2-933-24-04; 088-527-597               Fax: 359-2-980-65-69                Email:
ncsc-pmu@mlsp.government.bg
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2001  T   2002         2003      2004
0.30       2.85       3.60        1.25
Cumulative    0.30        3.15       6.75       8.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 05/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve child welfare and protect children's' rights in
Bulgaria through promoting community-based child welfare approaches such as
de-institutionalization, abandonment prevention and street children services, as cost-effective
alternatives to institutionalized child care. Thereby, the project will promote human capital
development amongst disadvantaged children, and will facilitate meeting some of the human rights
elements of European Union (EU) accession and the fulfillment of Bulgaria's commitment to the
United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The basic performance indicators of this project are to reduce the number of children in
institutions, and to provide improved access and quality of services to economically and socially
disadvantaged children and their families. The specific indicators are that:
*  20 percent less children are institutionalized in the pilot municipalities by 12/31/2003;
*  20 percent less children are entering institutions in the pilot municipalities by
12/31/2003;
*  50 percent of the staff working in state residential care institutions in the pilot
municipalities are re-trained and 20 percent are re-deployed to provision, of alternative
care by 12/31/2003;
*  30 percent of the families in the high risk communities in the pilot municipalities are
provided with social services and support by 12/31/2003;
*  20 percent of the registered street children are returned to their families or placed in
alternative care; 30 percent are involved in alternative educational and vocational
programs; and 80 percent are provided with health care services in the pilot
municipalities by 12/31/2003;
*  Average cost per child in community-based alternative care is maintained at not more
than 80 percent of the traditional state institution cost by 12/31/2003; and
*  The following structures responsible for child protection are operational by
06/30/2001:
* State Agency for Child Protection (SACP);
* National Council for Child Protection (NCCP); and
*  Child Protection Departments (CPD) at the municipal level.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17655-BT1L     Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/28/98
The CAS supports the Government's development agenda to advance substantial structural
reforms to rationalize the role of the state and enhance EU accession-related sector programs
while simultaneously providing measures to protect poor and vulnerable groups during the
transition and restructuring the Bulgaria social protection system.
- 2 -



The proposed project supports these CAS objectives in the following ways:
1. Short-term -- provide advice, finance, and leverage substantial additional finance from other
partners for the reform program of the Government. The project allows the Bank to respond
effectively to the Government's request for assistance in developing and implementing a
comprehensive child welfare reform (CWR) strategy. The project would contribute to the CAS
goal by promoting community-based services and providing support through technical assistance
(TA) and training for capacity building both at the local and central level. It would support the
government's reform strategy by providing an opportunity to implement cost-efficient and socially
viable community-based alternatives to the existing system of state institutionalization of children.
2. Medium term -- provide advice and financing for EU accession-related sector programs. The
project will support EU accession through the observance and promotion of the concepts
embodied in the UN CRC and improving human rights.
3. On-going -- expand the development assistance management role, and broaden and deepen
Bank partnerships with the EU, foreign and domestic foundations, private business and the NGO
community. The project will support the government's initiatives in CWR by providing
development assistance for capacity building of the SACP and to the municipal CPDs to manage
the reform program, form partnerships, and coordinate the various donors involved.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Children's Rights: Bulgaria ratified the UN CRC in 1991. Despite the fact that over the past ten
years efforts have been made by Bulgarian Governments to bring child welfare and protection
services in line with international standards derived from the UN CRC, and the obligations of
Member States of the Council of Europe, the institutionalization of children is still the mainstay of
child protection services in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, children are not the priority of the current
residential care system. There are conflicts of interest between maintaining the institutions, staff
employed and the budget for such purposes, and the true welfare of the child.
Institutionalization: The percentage of institutionalized children in Bulgaria is among the highest
in Europe at 1.78 percent. At present, 35,123 children are in public institutionalized care (see
Table 1). Most of these children are abandoned for economic or social reasons, some are
physically or mentally disabled, less than 1 percent are orphans. Conditions in the institutions for
infants and for older children vary, ranging from the reasonably good, to unacceptable. Children
brought up in poor conditions in these institutions, without preparation for independent living are
vulnerable to becoming involved in crime, prostitution, drugs and exploitation, mental disability,
unemployment, homelessness and even suicide, and find it difficult to integrate effectively in
society when they have to leave at age 18.
-3-



Table 1. Children in Institutions (September 2000)
Institutions                     Age of           Number of
Children          Children
1. Ministry of Health (MOH)                      0 - 7         4,265
2. Ministry of Education and Science (MES)       3 - 18        27,148
3. Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP)   3 - 18        3,405
4. Ministry of Justice (MOJ)                    14 - 18        145
5. Shelters and Day Centers for Street Children*  3 - 16       160
TOTAL                                                       35,123
Source: Compiledfrom official data
*Data provided by NGOs
School Drop-outs: According to information provided by the MES a further 45,000 children are
dropping out of school each year, and the number of children at risk of severe social and family
marginalisation is almost 90,000. In 1992, there were 87,000 new-borns, of which only 63,000
enrolled in first grade in 1999. School drop-out rates are presented in Table 2. The primary
reasons for institutionalization, the phenomenon of street children and the growing number of
school drop-outs include: social exclusion, economic hardship, unemployment, family
break-down, alcoholism, and domestic violence. The Government is addressing this issue
comprehensively with Bank assistance.
Table 2. Drop-Out Rates
School Year 1989   1990    1991   1992    1993    1994    1995         1996    1997
Drop-out   3.0    3.0       2.9    3.5     3.3      3.3      3.5      3.4      3.3
rate %
Source: 'Out-of-School Youth in Bulgaria', Mission Report, Sofia, February 1999, UNICEF.
Street Children: The past ten years have seen the emergence of the phenomenon of street
children. At present, some 3,000 to 5,000 are estimated to be living or working in the streets,
although the number fluctuates substantially tending to rise in the warmer Summer months.
Recently, there has been a tendency to limit institutionalization of children from families who
resort to placement in institutions for reasons of low income only, whilst no alternatives to family
support are offered: one of the reasons leading to the emergence of street children. The public
care system has proved unable to address the issues stemming from the economic transition. A
growing number of children are living and working in the streets. This is a complex problem with
diverse causes including homelessness, parental death/disability and children running away from
child-care institutions.
-4 -



Ethnic Minorities: Although official statistics do not exist, it is generally observed that some
60-80 percent of institutionalized and street children are Roma. The Roma in particular, have
been affected by unemployment and impoverishment during the years since transition. The Roma
have a larger number of children than ethnic Bulgarians, and a much higher incidence of poverty:
in 1997, 84 percent of the Roma were living in poverty compared to 36 percent of the population
as a whole (Bulgaria-Poverty during the Transition, Report No 18411, 07/06/99). Bulgarian
Turks and Muslims have slightly higher poverty incidence and larger families than ethnic
Bulgarian, but account for a small proportion of institutionalized children.
High Costs of the Current System:  In addition to the social and economic costs of
institutionalization of children, there are also significant financial costs. The annual cost per child,
placed in an institution under the MOH was US$ 1,357 in 1998, and US$ 1,046 in an institution
under the MOLSP. These costs are substantially higher than the cost per child in a family, which
was estimated at US$ 631 in 1998 according to the Statistical Yearbook 1998 (National
Statistical Institute). There is a high financial and social cost of sustaining the current public
system of childcare institutions. Some of Bulgaria's most valuable human resources are being
marginalised as children emerge from the public care system with inadequate education and
insufficient skills to find productive employment, emotionally scarred, and unable to fully
participate in society.
Lack of Standards and Regulations: There is no standardized national set of criteria for child
welfare, which has led to low quality of care, lack of monitoring and assessment and
misplacements in certain cases. There is no unified and standardized database or MIS on
institutionalized children, which makes access to information and efficient interventions difficult.
Limited Alternative Services: There are few other services available for families in economic
and social distress. The alternatives to institutional care do not reach the larger part of people in
need of care. There are only limited social work services, inadequate cash or in-kind benefits and
few community-based preventative resources such as counseling and family support centers.
Foster family care has not yet become popular in Bulgaria. Day care centers for children with or
without disabilities and other forms of care and prevention are not widely accessible. Over the
past years, efforts have been made by NGOs, donors and some municipalities to develop
community-based services as alternatives to institutionalization and to address the phenomenon of
street children. Despite these efforts, improvement in child welfare has been small.
Insufficient Staff Skills: The institutional childcare system suffers from an acute shortage of
experienced and well-trained professionals with the necessary knowledge and skills relevant to the
specific needs of the child and the modem childcare requirements. The professional structure,
training and skills of staff working in public care institutions, are not responsive to the specific
needs of children in care. There is a significant deficit of skilled social workers, managers and
para-professionals in for example, needs assessment, fostering and adoption, and family support.
- 5 -



Negative Public Attitudes: To a large extent, poor child care practices in institutions are due to
public perceptions inherited from the past and a lack of options to institutionalization. There is a
lack of information and understanding in society of the problems of children brought up in social
care institutions. These children are often marginalised because of negative public attitudes.
Police as Frontline Social Workers: The police, in the absence of well developed social
services, are often the first to interact with problem families and children, including street children,
children in distress, victimns of abuse/violence neglect, those suspected of crimes and juvenile
offenders. However, often the police are either not aware of or do not fully uphold children's
rights as they focus more on public law and order. Police facilities are inadequate for handling
children in distressed circumstances in a humane manner. Yet there is a very real determination
within the police to improve this situation and promote children's rights.
Diffusion of Responsibility: The responsibility for child welfare issues is divided between five
ministries and municipal authorities, making intervention and coordination very difficult and
creating institutional structures, which do not address the overall needs of children. During their
lifetime children in public care go from one institution to another governed by different ministries,
none of which put the child's interest first.
Government Initiatives To Date:
Recognizing the social and econornic costs, as well as the general negative impact of the current
public care system on children, the Bulgarian Government and the Parliament have demonstrated
increasing interest in addressing these issues, abiding by the principles of the UN CRC. On May
31, 2000, the Child Protection Act (CPA) was adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament. The CPA
creates the SACP, the NCCP (as a mechanism to involve all stakeholders in policy formulation)
and the CPDs at the local level to deliver services. The CPA defines those responsible for the
organization, provision and monitoring of the child and family support services, and the measures
for child protection and the decision-making process. It also includes provisions for police
protection of children in distress (i.e. those abandoned on the street, victims of
abuse/violence/neglect, young offenders).
The CPA introduces police protection for missing, abused and street children. It also addresses
the issue of the position and representation of the child in administrative and court proceedings.
The decision-making process regarding the measures for child protection is a combination of
administrative and court procedures, which provides a new mandate for the courts. The Council
of Ministers (COM) has approved a CWR Strategy and master-plan, supported by the Bank,
which will reform child care in Bulgaria in line with UN CRC and EU standards (see Annex 12).
The Government has established a Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprising Deputy
Ministers of all five ministries involved and the head of the SACP, to oversee the implementation
of the CWR.
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty and Human Capital Development.
Community-based services promoted through the project will strengthen national and local
structures and services protecting children. Support, counseling, and education provided through
these services to families at-risk and in need will contribute to poverty alleviation. Prevention and
de-institutionalization mechanisms promoted through the project will contribute to maintaining
and reintegrating the children in the social structure of the community. This will help them
become future productive members of the society contributing both to poverty alleviation and
human capital development. The street children services included in the project will also address
poverty alleviation and human capital development by providing services that will give these
children a better chance for social reintegration.
Strengthening and Rationalizing the Role of the State.
The project will contribute to the strengthening of the SACP and the managerial capacity both at
the central and municipal level. The project will support the process of restructuring the provision
of child-care at the municipal level through prevention and de-institutionalization. The project
will enhance partnerships with the NGO community and other development partners, especially
the EU, UK (Department for International Development - DFID) and potentially the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC). The prevention and de-institutionalization strategies will
return child-care to the family, where it truly belongs, with the state providing support
mechanisms and direct care only to the most difficult cases in a more community-based approach.
Specifically, the role of the state will be strengthened and rationalized in the following manner:
*  coordinating the activities of existing and newly emerging structures that are working with
children around the implementation of common childcare standards;
•  decentralizing the childcare system - delegation of the main rights and responsibilities for
the development of services for children and families to the local (municipal) level;
*  undertaking a transition from the predominantly institutional care system to a system
providing services and care in a family-based environment; and
*  providing services to the newly emergent problem groups of children (e.g. street children,
victims of violence and neglect, those in juvenile detention) who have not received care or
support from the state. This entails, inter alia, improving the manner in which the police
protect children's rights as established within the UN CRC.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will support the Bulgarian Government in reforming the child protection system,
through developing services at the municipal level, reducing the flow of children into institutions,
improving the quality of care for institutionalized children, developing alternative care systems
and assisting older institutionalized children to integrate into the community as productive
citizens. It will also focus on street children and Roma who are population groups particularly
at-risk of poverty and social deprivation. The project would build upon existing smaller-scale
initiatives of other donors and NGOs.
4S~~~~~~~~~~In;u2Xl777                           0       00;00      0;; 007 :i003 ::20 dicatie  B-k    h   ofVD
Comrr" n                  St .  i                   of    fn   fnancing Bank
1. Capacity Building             Institutional      8.27      42.2      2.53      31.6
Development
2. De-institutionalization       Social Protection   7.01     35.7      4.24      53.0
Adjustment
3. Abandonment Prevention &      Social Assistance   3.39      17.3     0.67       8.4
Protection of Children's Rights
4. Street Children Services      Social Assistance   0.87      4.4      0.48       6.0
Total Project Costs                19.54      99.6      7.92      99.0
Front-end fee                  0.08       0.4      0.08       1.0
Total Financing Required                  19.62     100.0     8.00     100.0
Component I:Capacity Building (Euro 9.10 million)
a. Policy Development. TA and training will be provided to strengthen the SACP and the CPDs
capabilities for the implementation of a co-ordinated national policy for child protection. Setting
up partnerships with NGOs and other service providers will be encouraged both through building
upon previous NGO experience and contracting out services by both central and Municipal
structures. Most of this component will be funded by the EU through a Euro 3.5 million grant -
a large part of which will finance a twinning relationship between the SACP and a similar Western
European (Austrian) institution. The UK DFID will also provide policy advice and support the
SACP and the training of judges in children's issues.
b. MIS, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). This component would support the development
and implementation of three inter-related MIS systems: (i) for the Municipal Social Assistance
Services (MSAS) based upon the MIS developed under the IDF grant on Social Assistance
Policy, to cover the Sofia headquarters, the 28 regions and 270 municipalities in order to reduce
fraud and establish the foundation for the improved targeting of social assistance, which is an
important element in preventing low-income families from abandoning children; (ii) for the
- 8 -



CPDs, a child monitoring and tracking system at the national, regional and municipal level to
monitor the flow of children into and out of institutions and to improve case management; and
(iii) for the CWR project, a project-specific MIS to be used as the major tool for monitoring
impacts and performance.   Monitoring and evaluation of all project activities (including
environmental aspects) would be supported under this component using both quantitative
indicators and a program of qualitative beneficiary assessments both before and after project
interventions. Impact indicators have been developed and are outlined in Annex 1 and in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). Computers and office furniture will be provided to the
MSAS and CPD and training provided to operate the MIS. The MIS for the MSAS, CPDs and
the CWR project, satisfactory to the Bank, will be established by 09/30/01. The establishment
of the MIS (including application software) within the MSAS and CPDs is a Condition of
Disbursement for the computer equipment for this sub-component.
c. Public Awareness & Training. A strong public awareness campaign to be implemented with
Bank finance will have three aims, to: (i) make families aware of alternatives to
institutionalization; (ii) change public attitudes to accept the re-integration of institutionalized
children into society, including domestic adoption and foster care; and (iii) change the mentalities
of professionals working in the child welfare/prptection sector and informing staff working in
institutions being closed down of alternative employment, including working as foster care givers.
Bank loan funds will finance management and social work training for the staff of CPDs and
MSAS.
d. Project Management. A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established to oversee
the implementation of the project within the MOLSP. The PMU will be responsible for project
implementation and management in the areas of: (i) procurement; (ii) financial management; (iii)
M&E; (iv) communications and public awareness; (v) management and social work training for
the CPDs responsible for carrying out different project-related activities; and (vi) donor
coordination. Consultants with TOR and CVs satisfactory to the Bank, selected according to
Bank guidelines, have already been appointed for all of the positions within the PMU.
Component II:     De-institutionalization (Euro 7.71 million).
This component will support the Bulgarian Government in improving the welfare of children
through identifying, financing and M&E of sub-projects to prevent institutionalization of children,
de-institutionalize and the improve the quality of residential care through alternative
community-based services such as (but not limited to):
*  Day care centers -- (i) providing day care for children coming from families at risk (e.g.
where both parents have to work during the day and where there is no extended family
support), and (ii) providing day care and therapeutic assistance for children with special needs
and parental advice to their families in order to support the family to understand better their
children and cope with their special situation;
* Family counseling and support -- providing advice and support to families at risk in order to
keep them together and prevent abandonment and the institutionalization of children;
- 9-



* Parental education -- teaching young parents how to cope with their children, helping them
to become reliable and good parents, encouraging parent/child bonding to prevent child
abandonment and institutionalization;
* Mother and baby units -- providing temporary shelter for young single mothers and their
babies in order to promote attachment and support the young mothers by providing
counseling (including legal advice) and parental education;
* Small group homes -- as community-integrated alternative residential care facilities providing
short/medium term care for children when other solutions are not available, until a family
solution is found;
*  Foster care training services -- to recruit, assess and train future foster parents; and
* Restructuring and rehabilitating institutions - selective restructuring and rehabilitation of
key facilities in which children will still reside after de-institutionalization has taken place to
the maximum extent possible. The MOLSP will prepare a separation and retraining
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for staff from institutions being closed down or
restructured no later than 09/30/01.
Under the project a major way in which such services would be provided is through the
development at the community level of Community Support Centers (complex of services) for
children and families at risk. Such centers would integrate a Day Care Center (both for children
with or without special needs) with satellite services for parents (services as already mentioned
above). Beneficiary municipalities have been selected competitively based upon agreed criteria
(see Annex 15). An Implementation Agreement between MOLSP, SACP and participating
MSAS, CPDs and municipalities, satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared no later than
09/30/01. Models for these facilities have been designed, and the first such facilities would be
operational no later than 09/30/02 and maintained thereafter. This component will be financed
by the Bank, EU and possibly the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) together with some
contribution by major international NGOs active in the field e.g. European Children's Trust (ECT)
and Save the Children Fund (SCF).
Component III:    Abandonment Prevention & Protection of Children's Rights (Euro
3.73 million).
This component focuses on the implementation of three key types of interventions aimed at the
prevention of abandonment of children amongst high-risk and disadvantaged communities, most
notably the Roma. Specifically community-based interventions would focus on: (i) strengthening
early child development and pre-school education; (ii) improving the interaction of the police with
children in general and high-risk communities in particular to work towards the prevention of
abandonment, institutionalization, the resolution of social problems involving children and the
reduction of child delinquency; and (iii) supporting the inclusion of the Roma in mainstream
Bulgarian society. Baseline surveys, community analyses and follow-up M&E surveys will be
- 10 -



undertaken in all communities participating in all sub-components of this component of the
project.
a. Child Development in Disadvantaged Communities. Disadvantaged communities will be
able to access grants competitively to establish and or expand pre-school and kindergarten
programs for children from the poorest communities in Bulgaria to prepare them for school,
enhance their Bulgarian language skills, provide basic health care and a nutritional meal, and
defray the costs of primary school (simple food, school uniform etc.) for the poorest parents.
b. Child Protection. Training will provided to all police officers to make them more aware of
children's rights and their role in promoting them under the UN CRC. More intensive training will
be provided to the 270 inspectors currently dedicated to children and youth issues, and extending
over time to improve the interaction of all police with children and youth. Minor refurbishments
and training equipment will be provided to a National Training Center to be established in Sofia.
The Bank loan will also finance the development of teaching materials and core curriculum
drawing upon materials provided by UK DFID, and best practices from Western and Eastern
Europe. The project will support this extension of the school and conmmunity policing program,
pioneered by the UK DFID. Child pedagogic units will undergo simple refurbishment, with the
upgrading of furniture and a computer provided on a selected basis to manage case loads. For
children in distress, including juvenile offenders, lost children, and victims of violence and/or
crime, the poor conditions in Juvenile Temporary Homes and the 24-hour juvenile holding rooms
in police stations will be refurbished and brought up to the Bulgarian and EU norms for child
safety, comfort and security. A protocol (satisfactory to the Bank) has been signed between the
NPD and the MOLSP, based upon the UN CRC, indicating how the police will promote children's
rights.
c. Reduction of Social Exclusion. Supported by the UK DFID, a social exclusion policy adviser
will help in the development of local plans and sub-projects to reduce the exclusion of Roma
starting in Sliven, Nova Zagora and Yambol. Activities include training Roma community
facilitators in social work, children's issues and economic development and employment. Social
and employment generation sub-projects will be undertaken by the Roma communities
themselves.
Component IV:    Street Children Services (Euro 0.96 million).
This component will support the SACP and the selected municipalities, working in partnership
with local organizations/NGOs, to identify, finance, implement and monitor a number of
sub-projects, targeting service provision for street children, in order to reduce their number
through family and social reintegration, and to provide secure shelter and access to basic services
such as health and education. This component will provide the following through the creation of
about six Street Children shelters providing services and acting as the base for:
*  Development of local strategies for overcoming the problems of the street children;
*  Provision of local level services for street children and their families;
*  Training of teams for outreach work with street children; and
*  Exchange of experience with organizations that work on the same problem in Bulgaria.
- 11 -



The project envisages three organizational forms of services for the street children: (i) outreach,
(ii) day centers and (iii) round-the-clock shelters. This component requires the active cooperation
of municipalities, NGOs and the police to be effective. A cooperation agreement between these
parties and action-plan outlining this collaboration, and the respective roles and responsibilities
will be required before the Bank gives approval to any sub-project as outlined in the PIM.
Models for these facilities have been designed, and the first such facilities would be operational
no later than 09/30/02 and maintained thereafter.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the implementation of the CPA which regulates child protection
measures and the establishment of structures both at the national and municipal levels responsible
for child policy implementation. Specifically, the SACP is responsible for (i) organizing and
co-ordinating the government policy on the protection for children, (ii) preparing and funding
national programs for the protection of children, (iii) guiding and controlling the CPDs, (iv)
carrying out research, (v) creating and maintaining the MIS, (vi) encouraging NGO activities in
the area of child protection, and (vii) promoting legislative initiatives. The project envisages:
*  Developing a coherent child-centered policy on children's issues and strengthening the
institutional capacity for implementing it. The project will support the establishment of the
SACP at the national level, and of the CPDs within the MSAS at the local level.
Moreover, it will support the development of unified standards and requirements for care
and services for children and families in line with the UN CRC and EU standards, and the
upgrading of the skills of staff in the system;
*  Undertaking a transition from a centralized system of institutionalized child care to a
system of service provision at the local level aimed at raising the maximum number of
children in a famnily or family-like environment. This includes the development of a
network of family support centers, de-institutionalization, improving the quality of care in
residential institutions, integration and the re-integration of children and youth leaving
social institutions as productive members of society;
*  Developing specific approaches for the prevention of abandonment and social integration
of children in high risk communities. These approaches include, but are not limited to,
kindergartens and preparatory groups in the primary schools, attracting ethnic community
staff in the social services provision programs, developing and implementing integration
training modules, improving community policing and police interaction with children; and
*  Addressing the issue of street children though service provision for them  and their
families, for equal access to training, healthcare and social integration.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
This project will provide a wide range of support services to local communities, especially
to families at-risk, including young single mothers, their children, those children already
institutionalized, and other children in difficulty (especially street children). Without the
project, local communities will continue without the much needed resources to provide
counseling and support to the families and children in difficult situations, thereby resorting
to institutionalization of such children.
Different levels of government, including the central government and municipalities will
benefit through capacity building, direct investments, and through the support provided to
them by the project to test and identify sustainable approaches to be developed on a larger
scale subsequently. NGOs and private service providers will also benefit through the
partnerships developed with the central and local authorities for the implementation of the
sub-projects, fostered under the project. Additional benefits would include: (i) increased
public awareness of child protection issues and enhanced participation of local
communities in supporting families at-risk and children in need; (ii) improved community
organization and implementation capacity at the municipal level; (iii) enhanced
coordination of a wider network of development partners in support of child welfare
reform; and (iv) more cost-effective and socially-effective alternatives to large state
institutions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1. Implementation period
The project will be implemented over three years commencing in May 2001.
4.2. Executing Agencies
The MOLSP has overall responsibility for the project which it will execute through the PMU.
The PSC has been established to ensure a coherent multi-sectoral approach to the overall project.
The CWR Project Director and the Executive Secretary of the National Council on Ethnic and
Demographic Issues (NCEDI) will attend as observers.
At the municipal level, the CPDs, with TA and coordination provided by the PMU, would
implement small-scale project activities (e.g. contracting services from NGOs/private service
providers) and would manage and supervise the newly created child welfare services, while also
playing a key gate-keeping role which would contribute to the reduction of the numbers of
institutionalized children. The selected municipalities would contribute by providing buildings
and/or land for the development of agreed project interventions.
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would participate in project development and the
provision of services for children, ensuring the quality of the childcare provided . NGO services
for specific project interventions will be contracted by the PMU or by the CPDs.
- 13-



4.3. Project coordination
The PMU will oversee the implementation of the project, under the guidance of the PSC, in
achieving the performance indicators specified in Annex 1. It will coordinate and assess
sub-projects targeting the development of services for children and families, including
procurement and financial management, M&E. The PMU will coordinate and support the
development of the CWR MIS, and the management training for project implementation at the
MSAS level. The PMU will be responsible for ensuring transpare6cy and free flow of information
to the participants and beneficiaries of the CWR, and for the implementation of the public
awareness campaign. In carrying out the above, the PMU will liase and work closely with the
PSC, the National Police Department (NPD), representatives of the five line Ministries, the
SACP, development partners organizations and NGOs.
Adequate systems for information management, and for M&E will be established in order to
ensure compatibility of all the activities with Bulgarian legislation, Bank and EU integration
requirements.
The PMU will directly coordinate with other development partners. Greater implementation
effectiveness will be achieved through the regular submission of progress reports (according to
the agreed format in the PIM, which has been reviewed by the Regional FMS and found to be
satisfactory to the Bank) as well as through direct development partners' involvement in the
supervision missions. MOLSP, through the PMU, will prepare no later than November 30
each year a project Implementation Plan (PIP) satisfactory to the Bank, setting out the work
program for the following calendaryear. This would be adopted by MOLSP, revised annually
thereafter, incorporated into the PIM, and thereafter carried out. The Government will
provide, through MOLSP evidence satisfactory to the Bank that sufficient resources have been
allocated in the annual budget to cover counterpart funding requirements under the project
for the year in question.  Any changes in the PIM should be approved by the Bank. All
feasibility studies for sub-projects under Component II, III and IV should be satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.4. Procurement, financial management and disbursement.
All procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures will be in accordance with
the relevant Bank guidelines and will be documented in the PIM. Procurement packages have
been identified and are described in Annex 6. Fixed price contracts will be used for NGO service
provision.
The Government has established and will maintain a project financial management system (FMS)
in a format acceptable to the Bank (LACI requirements). The PMU established within MOLSP
will be overall responsible for the Project financial management system. The PMU includes now
all staff agreed upon (manager, finance manager, accountant, procurement specialist, a number of
technical experts and an assistant). A financial management consultant (TAMS Ltd. Bulgaria)
was appointed to develop the financial management system for the project. In accordance with
the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, a financial management system has been established for the Project,
-14 -



featuring a customized accounting software fully developed to respond to the Project specifics.
The accountant and the finance manager will be the primary operators of the software with the
PMU manager responsible for authorizing all payments. The procurement specialist will have
limited rights to access the software on procurement related aspects. The initial appropriate
training was provided to PMU staff and the final training sessions are to be done by February 15,
2001.
The consultant, together with PMU staff, has developed specific chart of accounts, detailed
financial statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control procedures, disbursement
and flow of funds arrangements, assigned staff responsibilities in order to ensure a complete
segregation of duties.
The PMU will be fully in charge of all payments, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
reporting, accounting, consolidation, planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the Project. No
Project funds (including Loan amounts) can be transferred to beneficiaries or any other parties.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts
will also reflect the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account
(SA) and replenishments made by the Bank; and sources of funding used. The PMU will prepare
reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary of
withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester. The PMU will submit the Project Management Reports
(PMRs) to the Bank from June 30, 2001 and quarterly thereafter.
A Special Account will be opened at the National Bulgarian Bank (Central Bank of Bulgaria).
Government contribution will be received in a separate sub-account of the main budgetary
account of the MOLSP.
The project annual fmancial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank
guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Conclusion of a contract with
selected auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, is a Condition of Loan Effectiveness.
Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
Bulgaria's fiscal year. The audit report will cover both the compiled account of expenditure
incurred during the fiscal year as well as the Statement of Expenses (SOEs) used for withdrawals
from the SA. Special attention will be paid to confirming the transparency and accountability of
the use of funds by the beneficiaries.
4.5. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
The M&E system will be based on the MIS developed within the PMU. Information on project
progress will be collected through progress reports and supervision missions, and will be
distributed to all participants. An underlying principle of the M&E system will be the external
evaluation of the services offered, financed under Component I of the Project.
- 15-



Two Project Impact Surveys (one at mid-term, the other on project completion), will be
supplemented by a series of beneficiary assessments (undertaken every six months) targeted to the
pilot municipalities. These will strengthen the M&E feedback mechanisms during the life of the
project.
A project-specific MIS is being designed by a specialist to serve as the key project monitoring
tool. The PMU would be responsible for monitoring progress against specific perfornance and
impact monitoring indicators as summarized in Annex 1 and developed further in the PIM.
Starting July 31, 2001, a project report, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted
to the Bank no later than July 31 each year, and discussed with the Bank no later than
September 30 each year, during project implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending Instruments: A variety of alternative Bank lending instruments were reviewed as
follows:
LIL: Although attractive from the point of view of the innovative activities envisaged under
the project, the loan limit of US$ 5 million is too small for the scope of activities required and
would have only a minimal impact.
APL: The Government is not ready to commit to an extended commitment of Bank loan
funds given anticipated future grants from the EU and bilateral sources. Moreover, the Bank
would not wish to support multiple interventions in a specialized field such as CWR, but
rather follow-up with a broader focus on the provision of improved social services to all age
groups through the proposed Community Social Services Project in FY04.
Adjustment Loan: The Government requires finance for investment and institution-building
rather than to undergird policy reform. Thus a SIL was selected as the most appropriate
instrument.
Institutional Arrangements: Several alternative institutional arrangements were evaluated
before a final choice was made:
De-concentrated SACP: The initial idea was to delegate childcare to the SACP with its own
structures at the local level. This alternative envisaged all the childcare institutions being
subordinated to the SACP, thereby establishing another administrative structure with
increased costs. This idea was rejected also because of the excessive centralization of the
responsibilities for developing services for children and families and the withdrawal of the
municipalities from childcare policy implementation.
SACP within the MOLSP: Another alternative considered was to put the SACP under the
control of the MOLSP, as the local level structures envisaged by the CPA are subordinated to
- 16 -



the MOLSP (as the CPD will be part of the MSAS). This would solve the problem with
excessive administrative staff, but there would be strong administrative resistance from the
other ministries that are currently responsible for childcare in their respective institutions.
No SACP: A third alternative considered was that rather than establishing the SACP,
childcare would remain with the existing line ministries, with each aiming to improve the
quality and development of alternative forms of care and services for families. This alternative
was rejected because it would not lead to reform; a coordinating body for the institutions
responsible for the children would be missing and it would not provide an opportunity to
develop unified criteria and standards for child protection.
SACP with Project under the MOLSP: Based on the fact that the SACP will only become
fully functional later in 2001, the need for promoting a coherent approach to child welfare
issues, and coordinating development partners inputs, led to the idea to establish a PMU as
the focal point for project implementation. The major responsibility for developing the new
services for children and families lies with the MOLSP, which plays a leading role in reforming
the system for service provision. Therefore, an agreement was reached to place the PMU
within the MOLSP, with the possibility to transfer it to the SACP (which in any event falls
under the budgetary domain of the MOLSP), when it is fully functional.
- 17-



2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
ImplementatIon   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Social Policy                     Social Protection Adjustment      S             S
Loan (completed)
Social Assistance                 IDF Grant on Social Assistance    S             S
Cormnunity Development            Regional Initiatives Fund         S            HS
Social Investment Fund
(planned FY 02)
Education Development             Education Modernization           S             S
Project
Health Development                Health Sector Restructuring      HS            HS
Health Sector Reform             S             S
Other development agencies
EU                                Urgent Social Support
Programs No. l and 2.
PHARE Child Welfare Reform
UK DFID                           Bulgarian-British Legal
Initiative for Children.
Policy Advisor on CWR.
Community Police Project.
Social Exclusion Project.
ECT                               Children and Families.
SCF                               Development of Social Policy
for Children and Families in
Bulgaria.
- 18 -



UNDP                            Citizen Participation and
Development.
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) Children in Institutions
(completed).
Child Welfare Reform
(planned).
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following experiences and lessons have been reviewed and addressed in project design. The
sources of the lessons are given in parentheses: G = Global Development Experience; B =
Bulgarian Development Experience; and C = Child Welfare Reform Experience.
* Project Complexity: Complex projects are more prone to failure (G). Unfortunately CWR
in Bulgaria is inherently complex stemming from the division of responsibilities for child
welfare between the five line Ministries, the municipalities and the many inter-related
dimensions of child welfare. CWR projects are potentially risky as they require complex
coordination and place an additional emphasis on project monitoring. The project addresses
this issue by simplifying the implementation arrangements through the establishment of a
single PMU, under the MOLSP, with an operational linkage to CPDs at the municipal level,
and giving special attention to the development of a national MIS and M&E system.
* Integrated Approach: The issue of improving child welfare has many inter-related aspects,
including issues of health and nutrition, living conditions, education and training (C).
Therefore, to achieve a sustainable impact, it is necessary to address the problem on many
fronts simultaneously. To make a difference there must be a critical mass of inter-related
interventions at the local level, rather than scattered uncoordinated interventions spread across
a larger area. The project will promote integrated activities in a relatively small number of
municipalities (seven initially with more to be included if financing availability permits) in
order to demonstrate the positive effects of an integrated approach.
* Development Partners: In a complex field such as CWR, different development partners and
NGOs can bring complementary skills together to make a larger impact than a single financing
agent alone (G, C). The project design and development reflects a continuing consultation
process with a number of development partners, ranging from UNDP and UNICEF during
design, EU on policy issues and the creation of the SACP, UK DFID on community policing,
CWR and social exclusion issues. There has been regular information sharing between the
CWR participants and joint work in preparing the relevant studies. The project design is the
result of the cooperation and motivated involvement of all stakeholders. This practice will be
sustained and expanded during project implementation.
* NGO Involvement: NGOs are frequently leaders in innovation and pioneering new
approaches in CWR and their approaches need to be studied, and where cost-effective,
replicated (C). A number of NGOs are currently developing services to address prevention of
- 19-



abandonment and institutionalization, de-institutionalization and alternative care.
Unfortunately most of these approaches are relatively small scale, albeit important pilot
interventions scattered in different parts of the country. At the same time, in most of the
cases, municipalities were not involved enough in the project design and implementation.
However, a number of foreign NGOs active throughout the country have brought to Bulgaria
valuable TA from around the world and are developing projects based on best foreign
practice. The project will support the development of community-based services, based on
previous NGO experience by including best practice projects and encouraging the
development of municipality - NGO partnership in the process of project design and
implementation.
*  Beneficiary Involvement: Global experience demonstrates the need for communities to be
fully involved in the project cycle from identification, through preparation, implementation and
evaluation especially in sensitive sectors such as CWR where behavioral change is important
(G,C). A recurrent weakness in Bulgaria, demonstrated mainly in extensive nation-wide
projects, is that the connection with the community is lost, which results in minimal positive
impact. The project addresses this issue through: (i) direct beneficiary involvement at all
stages under Component III; (ii) ongoing beneficiary assessments under Component I; and (iii)
extensive public awareness program to ensure the involvement and the support of the local
communities under Component I.
*  Ethnic Diversity and Social Inclusion: Addressing hard-core poverty in Bulgaria requires
the social inclusion of disadvantaged ethnic groups (B). The lack of knowledge and
understanding of the Roma population culture have resulted in ineffective initiatives to address
their needs at the central and local level. The project will directly address the needs of the
Roma and other disadvantaged ethnic groups through school preparation programs, more
attentive community policing, and community development activities involving representatives
from the community in providing services to children and families.
*  Sustainability: The lack of a coherent approach to child welfare issues in the previous years
has resulted in isolated interventions on the part of the government, development partners and
NGOs, and has raised sustainability as an important issue (G, B, C). Experience has shown
that investment in institutions may strengthen them without improving the quality of care for
the children. Often, good practice and human capital, acquired in the course of a project, is
lost after project completion. The Government's recognition of the need for a coherent
approach to child welfare issues led to the adoption of the CPA and the establishment of a
PSC. The project reflects these changes by supporting policy development, enhancement of
the information flows throughout the CWR system and capacity building at all levels.
*  M&E: Establishing a unified M&E system, adequate to the needs of the reformed CWR
system, is a prerequisite for successful implementation (G). The M&E system will address the
issue of horizontal and vertical information flows and will ensure a feedback mechanism to
and reduce costs and is considered a critically important project component.
- 20 -



* Project Readiness: Projects need to have prepared up-front the sub-projects selection and
design (feasibility studies), straightforward procurement and disbursement arrangements, clear
flow of funds and implementation responsibilities, PIM, MIS (including M&E arrangements
and FMS) to make an effective start (G,B). Intensive efforts are being made to complete all
of these actions prior to loan effectiveness.
* Redundancies from Structural Reform: The main stakeholders to lose out from CWR are
the staff working in institutions being closed down who become redundant - the opposition of
these staff can be the largest single brake on continued reform. Recognizing this, Component
II provides explicitly for retraining and other support for workers being made redundant.
Moreover, such workers would be given some preference in foster-care training and the
selection by NGOs for alternative services. Public awareness campaigns will be targeted to
these workers to make them aware of alternative employment opportunities and to explain the
rationale of the reforms.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Bulgarian Government is committed to the successful implementation of the CWR for
improvement of the children welfare. The CPA was adopted which regulates the establishment of
the SACP and CPD and eliminates the juridical obstacles for development of alternative forns of
care and services for children and families in risk. The PSC has been established in order to
support the work of the consultant team in the reform project development. The Government has
approved a CWR strategy and master-plan for de-institutionalization (Annex II).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank financed project would provide assistance to complement other development partners
to bolster a comprehensive program that does not overlap or leave out targeted areas of the
reform. The Bank can use its wider development experience and influence to catalyze more
effective collaborative networks in support of the Government's integrative strategy for reforming
child welfare services and protection.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Through the implementation of the project , the following types of economic benefits will be
obtained:
* Component I (Capacity Building) - a sound MIS for both child welfare and social
assistance, thereby improving the management, policy and effectiveness in both systems;
* Component II (De-Institutionalization) - the substitution of expensive residential care by
lower cost alternative community based care; improved social integration and higher economic
productivity of children who would otherwise be handicapped and fail to develop employable
skills as a result of institutionalization;
- 21 -



* Component III (Abandonment Prevention & Protection of Children's Rights) -
prevention of high-cost residential care; promotion of human capital in disadvantaged groups;
prevention and reduction of crime; and
* Component IV (Street Children Services) - improved human capital, and reduction of
crime.
Component I (Capacity Building): In social assistance, a sound MIS combined with the
necessary staff training included under the project will reduce fraud and double claims and
improve targeting of benefits. Under full implementation, fraud reduction could amount to as
much as 5-10 percent of the current expenditures of BGN 220 million under the Basic Minimum
Income system; and perhaps improve targeting by a similar amount.
Component II (De-institutionalization):   The development of alternative services to
institutionalization will in the long run result in considerable savings for the state budget (see
Annex 4 for details). If through prevention of institutionalization and reduced outflows to
community-based alternatives, the number of institutionalized children could be reduced by 20
percent (or 7,000) over three years the net recurrent savings would be about BGN 8.4 million a
year.
Component III (Abandonment Prevention & Protection of Children's Rights): For each
child who avoids going into institutions through prevention activities, the budgetary savings could
be as high as BGN 1,800 per annum in 1999 prices - or up to BGN 32,400 up to the age of 18 (in
1999 prices). Crime, and imprisonment in particular, are very costly for society involving not only
high costs of direct damages, prosecution, incarceration but also the opportunity cost of the
imprisoned not contributing to society.  Although difficult to estimate accurately, crime
prevention, and its powerful counterpart social inclusion, are likely to have extremely high social
and economic rates of return.
Component IV (Street Children Services): Many street children resort to substance abuse,
prostitution and other very damaging behaviors, leading to dramatically reduced life-expectancy
and at the very least a very uncertain economic future with minimal earning capacity. The
key-issue is to seek to reintegrate these children in mainstream society, address their health
problems and provide them with some income-earning potential through the completion of basic
education and vocational skills. Both components III and IV contribute powerfully to enhancing
the human capital and hence employability of disadvantaged children.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project is operated almost entirely within the public sector, therefore fiscal, rather than
financial analysis, has been undertaken.
Fiscal Impact:
CWR will generate substantial fiscal savings over the medium-term. However, there are three
categories of up-front costs: (i) investment costs in developing new services, facilities, training
- 22 -



staff and developing the MIS (estimated at Euro 17.7 million over 3 years); (ii) costs of
restructuring and redeploying staff; and (iii) some duplication of recurrent costs in the short-term
as children are removed from institutions, placed in new services before entire old institutions can
be closed down. Incremental recurrent costs per annum rise from about Euro 0.1 million in 2001
to Euro 0.7 million in 2003, but would be more than offset by savings of about Euro 1 million per
annum by that time.
3. Technical:
The project aims at changing the existing institutionalized system for child welfare/protection by
preventing institutionalization and abandonment, and facilitating de-institutionalization through
provision of a continuum of community-based services for child welfare and family support, and
capacity building of specialized child welfare management structures both at central and municipal
level.
The CPA establishes solid premises for profound changes in the Bulgarian child
welfare/protection system, in line with the UN CRC requirements. A sound CWR strategy has
also been approved by the Bulgarian Council of Ministers. In September 2000, the PSC was
established, creating a solid basis for co-ordination of the project.
The project is building upon experience accumulated in the region over the last ten years both
through NGO pilots and other similar Bank interventions (Romania, Lithuania). It also draws
heavily upon data collected through a series of studies supporting the project preparation process,
namely the (i) Social Assessment; (ii) Institutional Assessment; (iii) Background Report on the
Child Welfare System in Bulgaria; (iv) Roma Issues Report; (v) Ethnic Minorities Report; (vi)
Juvenile Delinquency Study; (vii) Management Training Needs Assessment; and (viii) Child
Welfare Professionals Training Needs Assessment.
The project has been carefully prepared with close consultation and active participation of all
interested stakeholders (MOLSP, MOH, MES, MOI, MOJ, bilateral development partners, NGOs
and potential beneficiaries). Models for community-based services and alternative care have been
designed for Mother and Baby Units, Community Support Centers and Street Children Services
with NGO support. High quality architecture and engineering standards will be ensured by using
highly qualified local TA.
Pilot municipalities for project implementation have been selected on rigorous and objective
criteria such as the number of institutionalized children, street children, poverty data, data related
to ethnic minorities, commitment to change of the local authorities (see Annex 15 for a detailed
description of the selection process and criteria).
4. Institutional:
An institutional assessment (see Annex 12) has been carried out to evaluate the capacity of the
system to implement the reform. Currently policy decisions regarding child protection are the
responsibility of the central government bodies (MOLSP, MES, MOH, MOI, MOJ). They
regulate  the corresponding social care institutions, which offer a social- health or an
- 23 -



educational model of institutional care. Child care services are financed through a centralized
system of funding specific activities, based on the existing legislation and regulations, issued by
the respective ministries. The local authorities have limited decision-making power, within the
framework of the respective Ministry's methodological guidelines and regulations.
The project aims at building capacity at all levels of the child protection system to enable it to
move from institutional child care to offering services for children and families. The reform
requires the establishment and  institutional strengthening of the new child protection
structures, the SACP and the CPDs, in line with EU standards for modem management and
quality assurance. Through its capacity building component, the project will establish modem
merit-based management systems for the recruitment and development of staff, effective
mechanisms for contracting services to NGOs and maintaining an adequate information system
for children at risk and service providers.
4.1 Executing agencies:
MOLSP will oversee the provision of services to children and families as part of the reform.
The project will support the MOLSP in building up the CPDs within the MSAS. Special
attention will be allotted to management training for the heads of MSAS and CPDs and to
developing a unified MIS for child protection services.
CPDs within the MSAS: The activities the MSAS perform focus mainly on providing
financial social assistance. The project will provide training and technical assistance to build the
capacity of the CPDs to organize and oversee the provision of social services to children and
families. Capacity building is envisioned in upgrading the CPDs' staff skills for social work with
individual cases and customer service.
NPD: The project will support and build capacity within the NPD through upgrading police
officers skills to work with children.
SACP: The need for formal co-ordination of child protection policies and activities is
recognized in the CPA, which resulted in the establishment of the SACP in January 2001, as a
standard-setting and monitoring body.
The project will provide training and technical support for strengthening the SACP, through
EU finance, to achieve a co-ordinated child protection policy. Adequate funding and M&E
mechanisms will be created to ensure the development of quality service provision.
- 24 -



4.2 Project management:
Project management arrangements aim at eliminating the fragmented nature of the current system
of childcare and of previous efforts for improving child welfare. The project addresses the issue of
coordination in project management by establishing a PMU. The PMU will screen sub-projects
from an environmental perspective, hiring in outside expertise where necessary, and will be the
focal point of project implementation and will ensure consistency with the child welfare policy,
developed by the PSC, the SACP and the NCCP.
It will coordinate the implementation of priority programs for service provision of the SACP, as
well as activities related to the restructuring of institutions, staff qualification and re-qualification
programs. The PMU will act as a liaison between the development partners to ensure the
consistency and coherence in implementing development partners sub-project. It will provide
technical assistance to the CPDs, monitor and evaluate small-scale projects for child welfare
service provision at the local level.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment and procurement plan have been completed (see Annex 6).
Procurement arrangements and policies will be reflected in the PIM. Additional procurement
training for PMU staff will be provided during implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The existing PMU established within the MOLSP will be responsible for the overall Project
financial management system and reporting. A financial management system has been
established for the Project in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the PMU staff has
received the initial training to use it.
A Special Account will be opened at the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). Government
contributions will be received in a sub-account of the main budgetary account of the MOLSP.
In respect of the Project funds received from other development partners, a decision will be
made on a case by case basis in respect of whether the PMU will manage these funds, or
various other agencies as requested by these development partners.
The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including all special and project accounts
and all statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by
auditors acceptable to the World Bank.
A financial manager and an accountant have been appointed.
An accounting firm has been hired and has developed the financial management system,
including cost accounting. The accounting firm has prepared: specific charts of accounts;
detailed financial statements; reporting formats and methods; set up internal control
procedures; disbursement and flow of funds arrangements. The accounting firm has also
provided initial training to the PMU financial-accounting staff in the use of the financial
management system.
- 25 -



The PMU, will maintain their accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards
(IAS) and/or Bulgarian Accounting Standards (BAS). The PMU will be responsible for
preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Statements of Expenses (SOE) and
submitting them to the Bank.
The PMU will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of
funds by source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved and
the objectives for the forthcoming quarter and semester.
Before World bank Board presentation, the PMU was subject to a review and certification
process conducted by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) confirming that
its financial management system (i) satisfies the World Bank financial management
requirements as stated in OP/BP 10.02 and (ii) can produce, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required by the World Bank for
PMR-based disbursements under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
The result of the above assessment was that the financial management system for this project
meets the minirnum Bank's financial management requirements and the Annex 4-B LACI
Certification was issued. An agreement was reached with the Government on the remaining
steps that are needed to strengthen the FM system as mentioned in the financial management
action plan.
A detailed description of the financial management system for the project is presented in
Annex 6.
The Project faces two major risks in the financial management area.
One risk is the PMU assuming the authority and responsibility for every aspect of the project,
thereby exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address this risk, all
payment orders will be signed jointly by the PMU director and the MOLSP Deputy Minister
and the beneficiaries' representatives will certify the works done, goods delivered and services
rendered before the payments are made by the PMU. In addition, these representatives will
also be invited in the offers' evaluation commissions and be involved in the development of the
technical specifications. Moreover, the segregation of duties amongst PMU staff members is
achieved to a large extent.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to suppliers (due to the
signatures required) and inadequate counterpart funds in the government project account. the
experience on existing projects indicate that this risk to a large extent is contained by adequate
supervision by the Bank and has not been a problem so far.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no significant environmental issues and Bulgaria's environmental laws and requirements
- 26 -



are compatible with the Bank's policies and those of the EU. Scattered civil works, both new
construction and refurbishment, for the sub-projects under Components II, III and IV will be
small.   However, all necessary precautions will be taken to ensure that potentially toxic
substances such as asbestos or lead from paint will be handled in a safe and environmentally
sound manner, based upon positive experiences already gained in undertaking environmental
reviews and monitoring environmental aspects of sub-projects. Furthermore, the construction
plan will take steps to minimize waste, dust, and debris from construction and to safely dispose of
construction wastes. Only licensed contractors will undertake such contracts. Two factors
ensure that the activities implemented under the CWR project will not be environmentally
damaging interventions:
(i) Bulgaria has a strong policy for enforcing environmental regulations.
(ii) The CWR project will finance only small scale construction and
rehabilitation sub-projects, with minor environmental irnpacts.
National Environmental Legislation and Policies
Bulgarian environmental laws and requirements are compatible with the Bank's policies
and those of the EU. However, all necessary precautions will be taken to ensure that
potentially toxic substances such as asbestos or lead from paint will be handled in a
safe and environmentally sound manner. The construction plans will take steps to
minimize waste, dust, and debris from construction and to safely dispose of
construction wastes. Only licensed contractors will undertake such contracts.
The Bulgarian legislation relevant to environmental issues include the Environmental
Protection Act and the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. The executive
agencies responsible for their implementation are the Ministry of the Environment
(MOE), the Regional Environmental Inspectorate and municipal administrations.
All construction works on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria require the
completion of an Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIAR).   The
Environmental Impact Assessment Report is contracted by the investor and is prepared
by independent experts. The procedure for licensing the experts, carrying out
Environmental Impact Assessments was introduced through Government Ordinance 2
from of 1995.
Community Involvement in Assessing the Environmental Impact of Sub-Projects
Community involvement in the assessment of the environmental impacts of
sub-projects will be ensured via:
(i) disclosure and dissemination of information about the envisaged project
activities with potentially hazardous environmental impact. The PMU is
responsible to provide the relevant information to communities prior to
- 27 -



consultations with the local stakeholders. The information should be provided
in a timely manner and in a form that is meaningful for, and accessible to, the
groups being consulted.
(ii) public consultation, soliciting people's views on proposed actions and
engaging them in a dialogue. Interaction with people and eliciting feedback
will allow the affected population to influence the decision-making process by
raising issues which should be considered in developing the scope of
sub-projects, project design, monitoring of environmental impact, risk
mitigation and analysis of alternatives where applicable. The process of
consultation on environmental issues should be documented.
Environmental Inspection for Sub-Projects at PMU Level
Fully-fledged environmental assessments are not applicable in the case of sub-projects
implemented under the CWR project. Projects entailing rehabilitation, maintenance
and upgrading usually will have much more limited impacts, but may require attention
to existing environmental problems at the site. Therefore, an environmental screening
(inspection) may be more useful in fulfilling the environmental assessment needs for
such projects.
The aim of environmental inspection at PMU level is twofold: (i) to ensure that
sub-projects with negative environmental impact are not financed, and (ii) to ensure
that approved sub-projects are implemented in an environmentally acceptable manner.
The environmental inspection will be initiated by the PMU. Normally, potential
environmental impacts are identified early during the review of the proposal for a
sub-project. For projects under implementation the environmental inspection will
complement the check for compliance with national environmental legislation.
The process will include a detailed review of the technical proposal (specification) for
small works with respect to defining the type and scale of the potential environmental
impact and risk. The sample questionnaire for the review would address the following.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n/a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 28 -



n/a
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The CWR generates the following social problems that will be taken into account during project
implementation:
* The broad public does not understand the disadvantages of the childcare within an
institutionalized environment. This may lead to a lack of understanding of the interests of
the children and families living in risk, and to non-acceptance of the reform.
* Resistance from regional, local and central institutions, involved in childcare during the
application of the new child centered approach.
* The personal and professional considerations of the individual staff in the existing
specialized institutions for children. Re-location of the work force from childcare to
provision of services for new groups in risk in the community.
* The social change should not contribute to additional trauma of children, who live in the
institutions, due to the irresponsible closure of institutions and accommodation of children
with unprepared host parents.
*  The reform in the childcare system in the MSAS requires gradual implementation, so that
those providing services for children and families are able to acquire knowledge, skills and
understanding.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project Preparation:
Participation of the various stakeholders was undertaken in the following manner:
*  Government Ministries: The five involved ministries are overseeing the preparation process
through regular meetings of an inter-ministerial child welfare coordination group, which has
now been formalized as the PSC. There has been a series of workshops to build up a unified
CWR approach.
*  Development partners:  There is a regular exchange of information with the key
development partners, involved in CWR in Bulgaria. These development partners (EU, UK,
SDC, UJNDP) have also participated in preparatory workshops.
*  NGOs: NGOs are key partners in this process at all stages. There is a continuous dialogue
including participation in workshops and several NGOs (especially ECT and SCF).
*  Beneficiaries: A social assessment, co-financed by the UNDP, has been completed. During
implementation a number of public awareness campaigns will be undertaken which, inter alia,
will help beneficiaries understand the CWR. Beneficiary communities will directly contribute
to the design and implementation of the activities under Component III, with the support of
the MSAS and municipalities. A series of beneficiary assessments and impact surveys will be
- 29 -



implemented under Component I.
Project Implementation:
Continued cooperation between the various participants in CWR will be a substantial element of
the project during the implementation phase.
Stakeholders Group             Preparation        Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups       IS/CN               CN                 CN
MOLSP/SACP/Other Govt.               IS/CN/CL            IS/CN/CL           CL
Intermediary NGOs                     IS/CN/CL           IS/CN/CL           IS/CL
Municipalities                       IS/CN/CL            CL                 CL
Other development partners           IS/CN/CL            CL                 CL
Note: IS = information sharing; CN = consultation; CL = collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project draws upon previous NGO experience accumulated both in Bulgaria and in other
countries in the region. NGOs directly contributed to the development of models for Mother and
Baby Units, Community Support Centers and Street Children Services and will be further actively
involved in the project development through design, implementation, financing and M&E
activities. Service provision for most of the new community-based services and alternatives will be
contracted out by the MSAS with NGOs on a competitive basis, stimulating this way the local
NGO environment and also the collaboration between NGOs and the municipal authorities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Establishment of new structures - the SACP, CPD within the MSAS, regular M&E and discussion
with stakeholders will all work towards ensuring that the project will achieve its social
development outcomes. At the central level the NCCP will be responsible for providing feedback
to the SACP from stakeholders and civil society. The project is providing TA and training at both
the central and local levels. Beneficiary assessments will be conducted with all key stakeholders
including children under Component I.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring mechanisms are included in the project M&E sub-component covering the
structures and activities both at the national (SACP, ministries) and at the local level (MSAS,
CPD, municipalities, specialized institutions for children, NGOs, beneficiaries).  The key
performance indicators (see Annex 1) and impact of the project will be monitored through the
MIS, regular beneficiary assessments and impact surveys.
- 30 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 430)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Although technically OP 4.20 does not apply to this project, due to the very sensitive issues
addressed, including the cultural distinctives of the Roma population, other ethnic minorities in
Bulgaria, and the involvement of the NPD, the Bank and the Government have agreed on the
following actions with the implementing agencies:
*  the employment of an Ethnicity Specialist in the PMU;
*   the full involvement of the Roma and other ethnic minorities in the design and
implementation of the project components;
e   seeking to maintain or re-integrate children within their own ethnic community wherever
possible;
*   special training given to foster care givers looking after Roma and other ethnic minority
children, with the intention of drawing such foster care givers from within the child's own
ethnic community wherever possible; and
3  the inclusion of the NCEDI with observer status on the PSC.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The financial sustainability of the project is directly related to the establishment of appropriate
schemes for funding of the various activities and services for children and families. Of great
importance is the establishment of local level mechanisms, allowing funding of the local programs
with municipal sources, mechanisms for redistribution and reallocation of the funds from one type
of child care to another, as well as supporting "back-up" mechanisms in case of financial and
economic crises at local level.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   R 0 00 >5$iS Rating     Risk M itigatin Mease**
From Outputs to Objective
Governments maintains commitment to        M         NGO and development partner monitoring.
child welfare reform.
Adequate budgetary resources provided       S        Bank, NGO and development partner
for child welfare activities.                        monitoring of budget allocations.
CPA is implemented.                        M         Bank will monitor compliance and support
implementation under the loan.
Close collaboration of the involved         S        NCPP will need to be strengthened to oversee
ministries, NGOs and community.                      the full involvement of all stakeholders.
Adequate and clear regulations are         M         All development partners and NGOs need to
developed for the implementation of the              support the SACP in this endeavor.
child welfare reform.
Favorable public attitude and supporting    S        Adequate public awareness campaign will be
environment.                                         implemented under Component I.
Support and understanding of staff in the   S        Staff need to be trained and take advantage of
affected institutions.                               relocation programs under the National
Employment Service.
Street children do not respond to services  S        NGO workers will be in the front-line in
offered.                                             contacting children.
Ministries and municipalities fail to       S         Project objectives will be clearly explained by
collaborate.                                         the PMU and SACP.
Hostile reception by beneficiary            S         Good facilitators must contact the Roma and
population of services targeted to them.              other ethnic groups, who must be involved in
implementing their own projects.
From Components to Outputs
All agencies implement the project          S        PSC and PMU will ensure coordination and
efficiently.                                         supervision for efficient project implementation.
PMU will provide technical assistance to MSAS
CPDs.
Adequate budget provided for alternative    S        Bank, NGO and development partner
services.                                            monitoring of budget allocations.
Disadvantaged communities (e.g. Roma)       S        Minority groups will be involved in sub-project
have ownership of project.                           preparation, design and implementation.
Street children respond positively to      M         Specially trained teams of social workers for
services provided.                                   outreach work with street children. Adequate
and attractive educational and vocational
training programs for street children.
- 32 -



Overall Risk Rating             I       S       l
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social
*  Staff Redundancies and Labor Redeployment: The implementation of community-based
services  aimed  at  preventing  institutionalization  of  children  and  facilitating
de-institutionalization will result in the reduction of the number of institutionalized children
and the downsizing and closing down of some residential child care institutions. This would
lead to very strong opposition to change from staff working in such institutions who may
become redundant. In order to address this issue re-training and redeployment programs
would be incorporated in the community-based services (Community Support Centers).
NGOs and private service providers would be required to select, train and employ staff
currently working in child care institutions for the provision of alternative services such as
Mother and Baby Services, Foster Care, Small Group Homes or other social work activities
included in the continuum of services provided through the Community Support Centers,
wherever this is feasible. The MOLSP will prepare a separation and retraining program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for staff from institutions being closed down or restructured no
later than 09/30/01 and implement it thereafter.
3  Community Negativism: Members of the local communities may have a negative initial
reaction to the establishment of facilities such as street children services, day care centers for
children with special needs, services for young offenders and small group homes for children
in their neighborhoods. Public awareness campaigns, involving the local community in the
development of such projects, involving them in voluntary activities and providing services to
the local community through the new facilities will help prevent such negative reactions.
3  Ethnic Relations: Ethnic minority groups are often suspicious when "outsiders" interfere in
the life of their community. They might question the need for and might be reluctant about the
development of new services, especially if such services would also address young offenders
and would require interaction with the police. This issue will be addressed by involving the
community members (beneficiaries) and especially the community leaders in the design,
preparation and implementation of each intervention.
Governance
*  Institutional Complexity: New structures such as SACP, NCCP and the CPDs will be set up
to coordinate and implement the CWR activities. Lack of specialists and trained/experienced
managers both at central and local level may impede the effective management and
implementation of the project. Capacity building through TA and training both at central and
local municipal level would be available from the early stages of project implementation. The
PMU will be based on staff who already gathered experience in project implementation (Social
Assistance Policy Development IDF Grant) and project coordination and implementation
would be supervised from the very beginning by the PSC.
- 33 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Conclude contract with selected auditors, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants (satisfactory to the Bank)
*  CPDs in pilot municipalities operational by 06/30/2001.
* MISs functional for the MSAS, CPDs and the CWR Project by 09/30/2001.
* Implementation agreement between MOLSP, SACP and participating municipalities by
09/30/01.
*  Separation and retraining program prepared by 09/30/01 for staff from institutions being
closed down or restructured and implemented thereafter.
* First facilities under components II and IV operational by 09/30/02 and maintained thereafter.
Ongoing
* Annual Agreement on budgetary allocations for the project by 11/30 each year, and review of
progress and project impact with the MOLSP and PSC.
* Prior Bank approval for any changes to the PIM.
* Bank approval of all sub-project feasibility studies.
*  Submit PMR to the Bank from 06/30/01 and quarterly thereafter.
*  Project report submitted to the Bank annually commencing 07/31/01 and discussed with the
Bank by 09/30/01, and thereafter annually on said dates.
Disbursement
* For MIS computers for the MSAS and CPDs, that the respective MIS (including application
software) satisfactory to the Bank have been developed.
- 34 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
] 1. b) Not applicable.
C1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Inplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
John A. Innes                       ichal J. Rutkowskj               Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                       Sector Manager; /                  Country Manager
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BULGARIA. Child Welfare Reform Project
ierarbo          tese*to                                                           4#
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support the Government in  1. Meeting structural      1. IMF reports.             1. Government maintains
advancing substantial      benchmarks agreed with the                             reform momentum and
structural reforms to      IMF.                       2. CEM.                     progress towards EU
rationalize the role of the state                                                 accession.
and enhance EU accession,   2. Poverty headcount rate.    3. Poverty assessment update.
while protecting poor and                                                         2. Government creates and
vulnerable groups during the                                                      maintains appropriate
transition.                                                                      incentives for investment in
community-based child
welfare reform.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve child welfare and  1. Reduction of the total  1. Beneficiary assessment.   1. Government commitment
protect children's rights in    number of children in                            to CWR maintained.
Bulgaria through promoting  institutions by 20% in the    2. Household surveys.
community-based child      pilot municipalities by                                2. Adequate budgetary
welfare approaches such as   12/31/2003.              3. SACP reports and statistics. resources provided for child
de-institutionalization,                                                          welfare services.
abandonment prevention and  2. Average cost per child in   4. CPD reports and statistics.
street children services, as    community-based alternative
cost-effective alternatives to   child care is maintained at not 5. Project progress reports.
institutionalized child care.   more than 80% of traditional
state institution costs by
12/31/2003.
3. Average duration of stay for
children in residential care in
pilot municipalities by
12/31/2003 is 20% shorter as
compared to non-pilot
municipalities.
4. The number of children
benefiting of community based
services (including prevention,
foster care and adoption)
equals at least 30% of the
number of institutionalized
children in pilot
municipalities by 12/31/2003.
- 36 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitonng & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Capacity Building       1. SACP established by     1. Expert assessment of the    1. Entrance in force of the
Development of coordinated   06/30/2001.              SACP (availability of an   CPA and the respective
national policy for childcare  2. NCCP starts functioning by organizational diagram,  regulations.
and services for children.  06/30/2001.               internal regulations, system    2. Clear definition of the local
for permanent staff training,  level decision- making
The central and local      3. CPDs start functioning by   personnel, etc.).      responsibilities for the
institutional capacity for  06/30/2001.               2. Reports and other       application of child protection
implementing community- . 4. Training and technical   documentation from SACP,   measures and the social
based child welfare services IS assistance for capacity  NCCP and the ministries  worker's statute in the CPD.
improved and full M&E      building at all levels starts by  concerned with children  3 C
program is implemented.    05/31/2001.                issues                      3. Clear definimtlon of financdal
.          .                    ~~~~~~~~~~mechanisms/flow of funds for
5. Unified standards for   3. Reports of the MSAS     child welfare services.
childcare (type and quality of regarding the unified  4 Close cooperation between
childcare, staff qualification   requirements adopted and  4. Close c onc betw
.   '                        .       .~~~~~~~norato  the ministries concerned with
requirements, etc.) developed  regularly updated  formaonchildren issues.
and adopted by 11/30/2001.  in the MIS.
. . .. ~~~~~~~~~~~5. Central and local
6. Unified decision-making   4. Bank supervision reports.  authorities accept to work in
mechanism referring for
particular child protection                           close partnership with NGOs
measures, implemented by                              and community leaders.
11/30/2001.
7. MIS and M&E system
established by 11/30/2001.
8. Regulations regarding the
selection process for
contracting the provision of
services for children and
families introduced by
11/30/2001.
9. Annual technical and
financial audit reports
completed by 12/31/2001,
2002 and 2003.
- 37 -



2. De-insfftutionalization  1. Selection of sub-projects for 1. Expert assessment of the    1. Cooperation by various
Community-based services    community-based services    CPD (organizational         Ministries.
completed and operational in  completed:                diagram, internal regulations,
..  ..  ...                         .   .                   , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. Cooperation on the side of
pilot municipalities.       14 by 03/31/2001;           action plan, system for staff  the local authorities.
6 by 06/31/2001; and        training, persornel, etc.).
10 by 07/31/2002.          2. Activity reports and      3. Coordinated activities of
10cbye07 .. Actit rots anD  the institutions involved in
2. Feasibility studies prepared: documentation of the CPD.   childcare /school, health
14 by 05/31/2001; 6 by      3. Social workers reports on   authorities, etc./ with the
08/31/2001; and 10 by       the child's adaptation in a  CPDs.
09/28/2002.                 family environment.         4. Amendments to the
3. Civil works completed:   4. Activity reports and     legislation in compliance with
14 by 02/28/2002,          documentation of the NGOs   the CPA.
6 by 05/20/2002, and        providing services for      5. Clear functional
10 by 06/31/2003.          children.                    mechanisms for activities
4. Services contracted by   5. Minutes of Planning      funding.
CPDs in pilot municipalities   meetings of specialists, social 6. Agreement for cooperation
with NGOs: 14 contracts by   workers and families.      between the state/municipal
02/28/2002; and 6 by        6. Reports from inspections of structures, NGO and the CPD.
05/31/2002.                the CPA, CPDs.               7. Understanding and
5. Community Support       7. Regular MIS reports.     participation on the side of the
Centers (10) developed and    8. Expert evaluations on the   local community.
functioning in the pilot    project implementation in the  8. Support and understanding
03/31/2002; and 3 by        pilot municipalities.       on the side of the staff in the
06/30/2002).                9. Data from the District   specialized institutions.
6. Mother and Baby Units    courts on the child protection  9. Regulated statutory basis
(10) developed and          measures undertaken.        on the adoption and services
r            .                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~for children provision issues.
functioning in the pilot    10. Project progress reports.
municipalities (7 by                                    101. Bank supervision reports.  I. SACP is entitled to
03/31/2002; and 3 by         1.Bnsueviorprt.impose sanctions in case of
06/30/2002).                                            non-observation of the
7. Child care institutions                         standards and norms for
7.Childcare inttuin                                     childcare quality and the
07/31/2003 )                                            procedures for child protection
measure definition.
8. Number of children                                   11. Favorable economic
entering residential
enern resdenia                                          environment at local level.
institutions is reduced by 20%
in the pilot municipalities by
12/31/2003.
9. Number of children leaving
institutions increases by 20%
by 12/31/2003 in the pilot
municipalities.
- 38 -



10. Domestic adoption
increases by 20% in the pilot
municipalities by 12/31/2003.
11. Training programs for
staff working in residential
institutions and social work
training for alternative
services operational by
05/31/2002.
12. 50% of the staff working
in state residential care
institutions in the pilot
municipalities re-trained and
20% re-deployed to provision
of alternative services by
07/31/2003.
3. Abandonment Prevention  1. Selection of 10 JSDF   I. Reports by the CPD,     1. Cooperation and support
& Protection of Children's  sub-projects completed by  SACP, and NPD.          from MOH, MES, MOLSP,
Rights                    06/30/2001.                2. NGO documentation for the MOI and MOJ.
Promote child development in 2. 10 JSDF feasibility studies  projects.          2. Cooperation and support
disadvantaged communities to prepared by 09/30/2001.  3                        from municipaliRies.
prevent abandonment;                                 3. Reports from the MIS.
improve police interaction    3. Civil works contracted by         .           3. Programs for pre-school
with children; and reduce the  12/31/2001 and completed by  4 Expert evaluaions of the   training approved by the
social exclusion of the Roma. 11/30/2002.            projects.                 MES.
4. Social services and support 5. Beneficiary assessments.   4. Support for the projects by
for families-in- risk provided  6. Project progress reports.   ethnic communities.
to 30% of the people in the    7. Bank supervision reports.  5. Police at local level
high risk communities in the                          poe   t local lee
pilot municipalities by   8. Development partner     community and adopt a more
12/31/2003.               project reports.           child friendly attitude.
5. 10% of the staff, working in
the Community Support
Centers in the high risk
communities of the pilot
municipalities are people from
the ethnic communities by
12/31/2003.
6. Schools included in
community police program
(200 by 12/31/2003).
- 39 -



7. Police staff trained in
children's issues (270 by
12/31/2003).
8. Child crime rate drops by
20% in pilot municipalities by
12/31/2003.
9. Child Pedagogic Units
upgraded (230 by
12/31/2003).
10. Juvenile 24-hour Holding
Facilities upgraded (200 by
12/31/2003).
11. Juvenile Temporary
Placement Homes upgraded (5
by 12/31/2003).
4. Street Children Services   1. 20% of the registered street 1. Activity reports of the CPD  1. Amendments in the
Provision of services for the   children returned to the  at the MSAS.                  legislation ensuring access to
street children and families at families or placed in                                   alterative forms of education
risk; introduction of        altemative forms of childcare  2. Reports on the activities of  and training, health care, and
mechanisms ensuring access  in the pilot municipalities by  the street children shelters.    protection for street children.
for street children to training   12/31/2003.             3. Expert evaluations of the
and healthcare, for their full         .                   .                            2. Positive public attitude and
soia inegato.'             2. Street children centers (6)  shelters and CPD by SACP    cmuiyspot
operational in the pilot     and independent
municipalities by 12/31/2003. organizations.              3. Acceptance of the services
3. 30% of the registered street 4. Data from the NPD; data   by the street children.
children involved in         for the children placed in
alternative educational or   institutions and from NGO.
vocational training programs  5 Beneficiary assessments.
in the pilot municipalities by
12/31/2003.                  6. Regular MIS reports.
4. Trained and operating     7. Project progress reports.
social workers (65) for      8. Bank supervision reports.
working with street children
by 12/31/2002.
5. 80% of the total number of
street children in the pilot
municipalities provided with
health care services by
12/31/2003.
- 40 -



Key Petfonnance
Hierarchy of bjectives         Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                         Outputs)
1. Capacity Building     Euro 9.10 million        Project Progress Reports    All agencies implement the
project.efficiently.
2. De-institutionalization   Euro 7.71 million     Project Progress Reports    Adequate budget provided
for alternative services.
3. Abandonment Prevention Euro 3.73 million        Project Progress Reports    Disadvantaged communities
& Protection of Children's                                                  (e.g. Roma) have ownership
Rights                                                                      of project.
4. Street Children Services Euro 0.96 million      Project Progress Reports   Street children respond
positively to services
provided.
-41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
The project will support the Bulgarian Government in reforming the child protection system,
through developing services at the municipal level, reducing the flow of children into institutions,
improving the quality of care for institutionalized children, developing alternative care systems
and providing support to institutionalized children and young people to prepare them for
independent living so that they can be fully integrated into society and take their place in the
community as productive citizens. It will also focus on street children and Roma who are
population groups particularly at-risk of poverty and social deprivation. The project will build
upon existing small-scale initiatives of other development partners and NGOs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$8.27 million
Capacity Building (Euro 9.10 million)
This project component will provide for technical assistance (TA) and training for capacity
building, management and standard setting for the SACP and for the provision of social services
at the local CPD level. The component will support M&E of all project activities, development
and implementation of a MIS (including Financial Management Information) and of public
awareness campaign to support effective and efficient reform implementation. Total recurrent
costs of this component over the project life are Euro 2.90 million, financed by the Government.
a. Policy Development (Euro 2.61 million). TA and training will be provided for the
institutional building and development of the SACP and the CPD for the implementation of a
coordinated and coherent national policy for child protection. Setting up partnerships with NGOs
and other service providers will be encouraged both through building upon previous NGO
experience and contracting out services by both central and municipal structures. Most of this
component will be funded by the EU, including a twining relationship to provide support to the
SACP from a similar Western European institution. The UK DFID will also provide policy advice
to support the establishment of the SACP.
Of the Euro 3.50 million available form the EU, Euro 1.80 million is for a twinning arrangement
between Bulgaria and Austria. This provides TA and training for: (i) establishing and building the
operating capacity of the SACP; (ii) developing national minimum standards for child welfare
services; (iii) establishing the National Training Center for Social Work (as a focal point for
practical social work training and to ensure that future training is developed is in line with
European standards); and (iv) strengthening the implementation capacity in ten pilot municipal
CPDs. The following municipalities have been selected for the EU-PHARE pilot interventions
(Region in parentheses): Dimitrovgrad (Haskovo); Vetovo, Twe Mogili (Russe); Berkovitsa,
Lom, Boichinovtsi (Montana); and Pomorie, Nessebur, Karnobat and Sredetz (Burgas).
- 42 -



UK-DFID will also contribute to this project sub-component by providing for special training
programs for judges on dealing with juvenile offenders, TA for the development of secondary
legislation for the SACP and a child welfare policy adviser.
Inputs: TA (including twinning), equipment, training.
Finance: EU Euro 2.20 million; UK Euro 0.30 million; Government Euro 0.09 million.
Outcome: SACP and NCPP established, sound legislative framework, judges trained.
Responsible Unit: SACP, MOJ.
b. M&E (Euro 2.79 million). Monitoring and evaluation of all project activities would be
supported under this component. Impact indicators and other performance measures have been
developed and are outlined in the PIM and Annex 1. This component would support the
development and implementation of three inter-related MIS systems for the: (i) Municipal Social
Assistance Services (MSAS) based upon the MIS developed under the IDF grant on Social
Assistance Policy, to cover the Sofia headquarters, the 28 regions and 270 municipalities in order
to reduce fraud and establish the foundation for the improved targeting of social assistance, which
is an important element in preventing low-income families from abandoning children; (ii) CPDs, a
child monitoring and tracking system at the national, regional and municipal level to monitor the
flow of children into and out of insitutions and to improve case management; and (iii) CWR
project, a project-specific MIS to be used as the major tool for monitoring impacts and
performance. Computers, office furniture and staff training will be provided to the MSAS and
CPD to operate the MIS.
A project-specific MIS which will be the major tool for monitoring impacts and performance.
Impact indicators and other performance measures will be developed and outlined in the PIM.
The MIS for the MSAS, recently designed and developed under the IDF Grant, will be extended
through the procurement of the computer equipment needed to enhance the communication
capacity at all levels. A tracking system for children, clients of the child welfare/protection system
will be designed and linked to the existing MSAS MIS.
M&E feed-back mechanisms will be designed and implemented under this project sub-component.
More specifically, a specialized survey agency will be contracted by the PMU to carry out two
Project Impact Surveys (one at mid-term and the other one on project completion) using both
qualitative and quantitative measures, and at six monthly intervals a series of beneficiary
assessments targeted to the pilot municipalities. Other elements of the M&E program will include
annual technical audits, financial audits, beneficiary assessments and Bank supervision of both the
CWR loan and the JSDF Grant.
Inputs: Computer hardware & software, TA, furniture, training.
Finance: IBRD Euro 2.37 million; JSDF Euro 0.20 million; Government Euro 0.41 million.
Outcome: Computerized MIS established for MSAS, CPDs and project; fraud reduction and
improved targeting of social assistance, improved tracking and management of children and
their needs, M&E studies.
Responsible Unit: MOLSP - MSAS, CPDs.
-43 -



c. Public Awareness & Training (Euro 0.36 million). Effective public awareness campaigns
will be implemented with Bank finance with the following objectives, to: (i) make families aware
of alternative services to institutionalization; (ii) change public attitudes towards institutionalized
children and to accept the re-integration of institutionalized children into society, including
domestic adoption and foster care; and (iii) change the attitudes of professionals working in the
child welfare/protection sector, providing informational support to staff working in institutions
which will be closed down about the closure process, about their statutory rights, alternative
employment particularly that within the child care services being established, including as
potential foster carers.
The PMU will contract on a competitive basis a specialized agency for the design and
implementation of a Public Awareness Campaign, based on the results provided by the Public
Awareness Survey (funded under the PHRD). Bank loan funds of Euro 0.23 million would
contribute to the design and the implementation process. Additional funds would be sought by the
PMU, SACP, and CPDs from various sponsors to support further implementation.
The Bank loan funds of up to Euro 0.13 million, targeted mainly at training for social work
supervision and the management of social services for the CPDs in the following selected pilot
municipalities (see Annex 15 for detailed selection process and criteria): Plovdiv, Varna,
Shumen, Russe, Stara Zagora, Sliven and Sofia. Three more municipalities, selected on the
same criteria after the first ten months of project implementation, will also benefit from training
financed under the Bank loan contribution. Training delivery would be contracted, according to
needs, by the PMU on a competitive basis with qualified training agencies (including universities),
capable of providing training having the appropriate accreditation. Specific linked-to-the-project
training requirements of MOLSP, MOH, MES, MOI, MOJ agreed by the SACP at the NCCP
would also be implemented under this project component, in a similar manner.
Inputs: TA, training.
Finance: IBRD Euro 0.36 million.
Outcome: Changed public attitudes and behavior; improved social service delivery.
Responsible Unit: MOLSP - CPDs; SACP.
d. Project Management (Euro 0.21 million). The PMU, financed under the loan, will be
responsible for project implementation and management in the areas of: (i) procurement; (ii)
financial management; (iii) project M&E; (iv) communications and public awareness; (v)
management training to the MSAS responsible for carrying out different project-related activities;
and (vi) development partner coordination.
DFID and JSDF Grant funds would contribute to employing the following 8 PMU consultants
over the life of the project: (i) Project Manager; (ii) Procurement Specialist; (iii) Financial
Manager and Accountant; (iv) two Child Welfare Specialists; (vii) an Ethnic Relations Specialist;
and (viii) Translator/Administrative Assistant. All the PMU consultants have already been
appointed under TOR satisfactory to the Bank.
-44 -



Inputs: Local TA.
Finance: JSDF Euro 0.09 million; UK Euro 0.12 million.
Outcome: Effective project management.
Responsible Unit: MOLSP - PMU.
Project Component 2 - US$7.01 million
De-institutionalization (Euro 7.71 million)
This component will support the Bulgarian Government in improving the welfare of children
through identifying, financing, monitoring and evaluating sub-projects targeted at the prevention
of abandonment and institutionalization of children, leading to the de-institutionalization of
children in residential care and an improved quality of residential care through the establishment
of alternative community-based services such as:
* Community Support Centers - Such centers would integrate a Day Care Center (both
for children with or without special needs) with a continuum of satellite services for
children, parents and professionals such as (but not limited to);
1. Family counseling and support -- providing advice and support to families at risk in
order to keep them together and this way to prevent abandonment and
institutionalization of children;
2. Parental education -- teaching young parents how to cope with their children,
helping them to become reliable and good parents, encouraging parent/child bonding
as a prevention to child abandonment and institutionalization;
3. Foster care services -- to recruit, assess and train future foster parents; to place
children in foster care and supervise and monitor the foster placements;
4. Training and development --to provide training to staff attached both directly and
indirectly to the service with particular reference to staff working in local institutions
and NGOs;
5. Counseling services for young offenders -to provide an improved environment for
the police "pedagogical rooms" in order to give advice and support to children who
have committed offenses and prevent reclusion;
6. Community development -- to undertake community development activities, such as
business development and volunteer activities;
*  Mother and baby units -- providing temporary shelter for young single mothers and their
babies in order to promote attachment and support the young mothers by providing
counseling (including legal advice) and parental education; and
*  Small group homes -- as community-integrated alternative residential care facilities
providing short/medium term care for children when other solutions are not available, until
a family solution is found.
*  Restructuring and rehabilitation of existing institutions.
- 45 -



Six pilot municipalities have been selected based on rigorous criteria (see Annex 15). Three more
pilot municipalities may be selected, based on similar criteria, for implementation of
community-based services, after the first ten months of project implementation, if funds permit.
The Bank loan financed interventions would focus on the development of Mother and Baby Units
and Community Support Centers in each pilot municipality. Models for such services have been
developed with NGO support, based on previous NGO experience and involving large
consultation of both professionals and potential beneficiaries. This project component would
provide for the development of at least one of each such interventions in every pilot municipality.
The municipalities would contribute to this project component by providing buildings and/or
terrain for construction, according to the situation in each municipality.
Bank loan funds of up to Euro 3.74 million would provide for financing civil works for building
small facilities, redesign and refurbishment of existing facilities up to the amount of Euro 0.17
million for each Mother and Baby Unit and Euro 0.26 million for each Community Support
Center. Funds up to the total amount of Euro 1.00 million would provide for the procurement
goods (furniture, equipment, supplies), up to the amount of Euro 0.03 million for each Mother
and Baby Unit and Euro 0.07 million for each Community Support Center respectively. Funds up
to the total amount of Euro 0.20 million would provide for financing feasibility studies for both
Mother and Baby Units and Community Support Centers.
Existing institutions for children aged 0-3 years in the pilot municipalities would be targeted for
developing pilot Mother and Baby Units. This approach would directly contribute to diverting
parts of such institutions to provision of alternative services and to reducing the number of places
for children in the traditional state institutions for children 0-3 years old. The list of institutions to
be targeted for provision of Mother and Baby Units would be provided by the MOH. Feasibility
studies for each sub-project intervention would be prepared in advance with PMU support.
Service provision for both Mother and Baby Units and Community Support Centers would be
contracted by the CPDs, with PMU technical support, from NGOs and private service providers
on a competitive basis. TORs would be prepared based on the existing models and also by taking
into consideration each particular situation. TOR models are included in the PIM and specify
targets for each beneficiary group and minimum standard requirements for service provision.
NGOs and private service providers would be required to select, train and employ staff
currently working in state residential care institutions wherever possible and appropriate
(condition in NGO service contract). This approach would: (i) stimulate the local NGO
environment; (ii) encourage the development of partnerships and collaboration between municipal
authorities and NGOs; (iii) re-deploy staff through selection and re-training from institutionalized
care to provision of alternative services (Mother and Baby Units, social work, fostering); (iv)
contribute to the reduction of the numbers of staff and children in institutions - an important
incentive for downsizing, restructuring or even closing down institutions; and (v) contribute to the
provision of quality and cost-effective community-based services.
The Government would finance Euro 0.3 million under this project component for service
provision contracting related to the operational costs of the first year of functioning of such
- 46 -



community-based services in the amount of up to Euro 0.027 million for each Mother and Baby
Unit and Euro 0.083 million for each Community Support Center respectively.
Service provision would be supervised and monitored by the CPDs. CPDs would also play a key
gate-keeping role by diverting child care/protection decisions from institutionalization to provision
of alternative services. This approach should have a direct effect on new admissions to residential
care of very young children, especially those aged 0-7 years.  The combined effect of
gate-keeping/prevention, alternative and de-institutionalization services should be already visible
in the pilot municipalities after the first year of project implementation. This would enable the
identification of further interventions in the same pilot areas which would transform already
downsized institutions into accommodation for the provision of services such as those previously
mentioned, or for alternatives such as Small Group Homes for children or Social Homes for
teenagers leaving state institutions and preparing for independent living.
Decisions would be taken by the PSC on each sub-project intervention on a case-by-case
analysis. Once approved, new sub-project interventions would be implemented by the PMU and
CPDs. Bank loan funds up to the total amount of Euro 2.2 million for civil works (up to Euro 0.2
million for each intervention) and Euro 0.6 million for goods (up to Euro 0.06 million per facility)
would be provided for this purpose under this project component. Funds up to the total amount
of Euro 0.1 million will provide for the preparation of feasibility studies for restructuring
institutions. Ten such interventions would be initially considered for implementation. More such
sub-projects could be further considered for implementation, based on the availability of funds.
Similar interventions to support local reform management, development of altematives and
community-based services are also included under the EU-PHARE project (Euro 0.35 million for
TA and Euro 0.5 for equipment), under the UK-DFID/SCF project in Shumen and Russe (GBP
0.43 million) and under the ECT projects in Plovdiv and Haskovo. Total recurrent costs of this
component over the project life are Euro 0.3 million, financed by the Government.
Inputs: Works, equipment & furniture; TA.
Finance: IBRD Euro 4.66 million; EU Euro 1.16 million; UK Euro 0.13 million;
Government Euro 1.09 million.
Outcome: Alternative community-based services developed; large institutions transformed.
Responsible Unit: SACP; CPDs and municipalities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.39 million
Abandonment Prevention & Protection of Children's Rights (Euro 3.73 million)
This component focuses on the implementation of two key types of interventions aimed at the
prevention of abandonment of children amongst high-risk and disadvantaged communities, most
notably the Roma, specifically community-based interventions focused on: (i) on early child
development and pre-school education and (ii) improving the interaction of the police with
children in general and high-risk communities in particular to work towards the prevention of
abandonment, institutionalization and the resolution of social problems involving children. The
component thus requires the maximum involvement of the community representatives in the
- 47 -



design and implementation of the activities - and will be supported directly under the proposed
Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) Grant. Total recurrent costs of this component over the
project life are Euro 0.2 million, financed by the Government.
A. Child Development in Disadvantaged Communities (Euro 1.16 million): Utilizing the
JSDF, Euro 1 million may be accessed competitively by disadvantaged communities for grants up
to Euro 82,500 per community. The fund would be used to establish and or expand pre-school
and kindergarten programs for children from the poorest communities in Bulgaria (the Roma) to
prepare them for school, enhance their Bulgarian language skills, provide basic health care, a
nutritional meal and defray the costs of primary school (simple food, school uniform etc.) for the
poorest parents. Limited civil works would be included as necessary to adapt or refurbish
kindergarten facilities and would be included within the sub-project costs. Thus the grants for
sub-projects would include civil works, equipment, consumables, and facilitators fees.
Sub-project selection would proceed in the following manner: (i) Information/Facilitation
Phase - Facilitators, recruited wherever possible from amongst the Roma, would inform Roma
conmmunities of more than 500 inhabitants about the options, selection procedures and
responsibilities. (ii) Preparation Phase - With the support of the facilitators, Roma communities
would prepare proposals for pre-school and kindergarten services. (iii) Selection Phase - The
Steering Committee would make the final selection of sub-projects based upon the agreed
selection criteria. (iv) Implementation Phase - The Roma communities, with the endorsement
of the municipalities and the support of the facilitators would implement the selected sub-projects.
(v) M&E Phase - The facilitators would monitor progress. Evaluation would be undertaken
through hiring independent local consultants to undertake simple baseline and follow-up surveys
and beneficiary assessments in each of the 18 or so project sites. This component would start in
the 7 pilot municipalities, but could be extended as financing and satisfactory M&E results permit.
Inputs: Works, supplies, equipment, local TA.
Finance: JSDF Euro 1 million; Governmuent Euro 0.17 million.
Outcome: Kindergartens and child-based services developed in poor ethnic communities.
Responsible Unit: PMU - municipalities, communities.
B. Child Protection (Euro 1.28 million): Training will provided to police officers working with
children, focusing initially on the 270 inspectors currently dedicated to children and youth issues,
and extending over time to improve the interaction of all police with children and youth. Minor
refurbishments and training equipment will be provided to a National Training Center to be
established in Sofia. The Bank loan will also finance the development of teaching materials and
core curriculum drawing upon materials provided by UK DFID, and best practices from Western
and Eastern Europe.
The UK DFID has been financing a community police project commencing in Plovdiv and
currently being extended to Sliven, with a key focus of outreach to the schools on crime
prevention, life skills and promoting understanding of the police and their role. Evaluations in
Plovdiv have demonstrated reduced rates of juvenile crime and an improved interaction between
police and the community, especially youth. The Bank loan will support this extension to other
-48 -



areas of the country, with special emphasis on the remaining pilot municipalities, whilst the UK
DFID will continue funding TA and technical support. One vehicle, to be dedicated to the
project, as well as outreach materials and allowances will be financed under the loan. Child
pedagogic units will undergo simple refurbishment, with the upgrading of furniture and a
computer provided on a selected basis to manage case loads. Municipalities will provide a
guarantee that such rooms will remain in use as child pedagogic units for 5 years following
refurbishment (Condition of Contract). Wherever Conmmunity Support Centers are created
under Component II, child pedagogic units will be integrated into these new facilities.
To handle children in distress, including juvenile offenders, lost children, and victims of violence
and/or crime, the simply appalling conditions in the 5 Juvenile Temporary Placement Homes and
the 24 hour detention rooms in district police stations will be refurbished and brought up to the
Bulgarian and EU norms for child safety, comfort and security, in order to protect children's
rights.
Inputs: Works, equipment, vehicles, supplies, training.
Finance: IBRD Euro 0.74 million; UK Euro 0.28 million; Governnent Euro 0.26 million.
Outcome: Children protected, improved facilities, better handling by the police, reduced
juvenile crime.
Responsible Unit: NPD.
C. Reduction of Social Exclusion (Euro 1.11 million): Supported by the UK DFID, a social
exclusion policy adviser will help in the development of local plans and sub-projects to reduce the
exclusion of Roma starting in Sliven, Nova Zagora and Yambol. Activities include training
Roma community facilitators in social work, children's issues and economic development and
employment. Social and employment generation sub-projects will be undertaken by the Roma
communities themselves. Strong linkages will be made with the MSAS, CPDs and the
municipalities. Building upon the earlier UK DFID pilots, Bank loan funds will support this
component through the expansion of training of police to deal with the Roma, especially Roma
recruits. The recurrent costs of police salaries and service bonuses will be covered by the NPD.
Inputs: TA , equipment, supplies, works, training.
Finance: UK Euro 0.98 million; Government Euro 0.13 million.
Outcome: Community development amongst disadvantaged groups.
Responsible Unit: Municipalities.
Project Component 4 - US$0.87 million
Street Children Services (Euro 0.96 million)
This project component will support the SACP and the selected municipalities, working in
partnership with local organizations, to identify, finance, implement and monitor a number of
sub-projects, targeting service provision for street children, in order to reduce their number
through family and social reintegration, and to provide secure shelter and access to basic services
such as health and education. Total recurrent costs of this component over the project life are
Euro 0.35 million, financed by the Government.
- 49 -



The term "street children": covers children aging from 0 to 18 years who have not been looked
after by an adult and whose temporary or permanent home is the street. Depending to which
extent the children maintain relations to their families and how long they live in the street, several
categories of street children exist:
*  Children who live and work in the street. These are the children who have broken down
their relations with the family environment and live and earn their living in the street;
*  Children who work in the street. These children spend a lot of time in the street, earn
some money but at the evenings they go back home to their families, many are school
drop-outs or Roma children sent out by their families to earn money through petty trade,
begging or crime; and
*  Newcomers who have escaped from their homes or from the specialized institutions for
children where they have been placed.
There are no reliable data available on the number of the street children in Bulgaria. The police
collect data on the street children who have committed offenses. In 1999 their number was 669.
According to the data from the NGOs, about 300 children per month pass through the different
centers (a total of 13 in the country) for working with street children. The actual number is far
above the number of the registered with the police and benefiting from the services of the few
existing centers. Taking into account that 1,069 children were registered with the police for
begging in 1999, it may be suggested that the actual number of children living temporarily or
permanently in the street is more than 3,000. During the winter, their number decreases; during
the summer, their number increases. The largest number of the street children live in Sofia,
followed by Varna and Bourgas.
This component will provide the following through the creation of about 6 Street Children
shelters providing services and acting as the base for:
*  Provision of local level services for street children and their families;
D development of local strategies for overcoming the problems of the street children;
*  Training of teams for outreach work with street children; and
*  Exchange of experience with organizations that work on the same problem in Bulgaria.
The project envisages 3 organizational forms of services for the street children: (i) outreach, (ii)
day centers and (iii) round-the-clock shelters. They may offer the following services:
*  Shelter, food, clothing;
* Medical assistance;
* Psychological support;
*  Legal advice and assistance;
*  General education and vocational training programs;
*  Family counseling together with the parents; and
*  Counseling and support in contacts with institutions.
- 50 -



This component requires the active cooperation of municipalities, NGOs and the police to be
effective. A cooperation agreement between these parties and action-plan outlining this
collaboration, and the respective roles and responsibilities will be required before the Bank
gives approval to any sub-project.
Inputs: Works, fumiture & equipment, TA, training.
Finance: IBRD Euro 0.53 million; Government Euro 0.08 million.
Outcome: Street children shelters developed; street children services strengthened.
Responsible Unit. SACP, CPDs, municipalities, NPD.
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
I. Capacity Building                                               3.76            4.51            8.27
II. De-institutionalization                                         5.58           1.43            7.00
III. Abandonment Prevention and Protection of Children's Rights    2.31            1.08            3.39
IV. Street Children Services                                        0.75           0.11            0.86
Total Baseline Cost                                                12.41           7.13           19.53
Physical Contingencies                                            0.00            0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                               0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs                  12.41            7.13          19.53
Front-end fee                         0.08            0.08
Total Financing Required                    12.41           7.21           19.62
Civil Works                                                           5.33            0.62            5.95
Goods                                                                2.10             3.07           5.17
Technical Assistance                                                  1.40            3.16           4.56
Training                                                             0.39             0.04           0.43
Operating Costs                                                       3.18            0.25            3.43
Total Project Costs        12.41             7.13          19.54
Front-end fee                         0.08           0.08
Total Financing Required          12.41            7.22           19.62
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.43 (USSm) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 17.19 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 46.53°s,
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 52 -



Annex 4
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
Economic Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
Through the implementation of the project, the following types of economic benefits will be
obtained:
*  Component I (Capacity Building) - a sound MIS for both child welfare and social
assistance, thereby improving the management, policy and effectiveness in both systems;
*  Component II (De-institutionalization) - the substitution of expensive residential care by
lower cost alternative community based care; improved social integration and higher economic
productivity of children who would otherwise be handicapped and fail to develop employable
skills as a result of institutionalization;
*  Component III (Abandonment Prevention &  Protection of Children's Rights) -
prevention of high-cost residential care; promotion of human capital in disadvantaged groups;
prevention and reduction of crime; and
-  Component IV (Street Children Services) - improved human capital and reduction of crime.
Component I (Capacity Building): In social assistance, a sound MIS combined with the
necessary staff training included under the project will reduce fraud and improve targeting of
benefits. Under full implementation, fraud reduction could amount to as much as 5-10 percent of
the current expenditures of BGN 220 million under the Basic Minimum Income system; and
perhaps improve targeting by a similar amount.
Component II (De-institutionalization):   The development of services alternative to
institutionalization will in the long run result in considerable savings for the state budget. In 1999
the average monthly cost per child placed in an institution was as follows: BGN 111 in the
institutions under the MES; BGN 232 under the MOLSP; BGN 288 under the MOH; and 598
BGN under the MOJ and cover food, clothes, medicines, training aids, staff wages and
remuneration, health insurance contributions, etc. In 1999, the average monthly cost per child in
the system for institutional child-care therefore is BGN 153, against an average monthly income
of BGN 33 per household member in socially disadvantaged families for the same year. The
estimated range of costs for alternative family or community-based care would be as follows (all
including Child Benefit which currently is only BGN 11 per month); (i) adoption BGN 11 per
child/month plus administrative/supervision costs (circa BGN 5); (ii) foster care, a function of the
allowance paid (which might range from BGN 40-80 per child/month); (iii) family re-integration,
BGN 11 per child/month plus administrative/supervision costs (circa BGN 5) plus the costs of
specialized services which could ranger from BGN 0-100 per child/month); and (iv) small group
homes, which might cost BGN 120 per child/month. If through prevention of institutionalization
and reduced outflows to community-based alternatives, the number of institutionalized children
could be reduced by 20 percent (or 7,000) over three years the net recurrent savings would be
about BGN 8.4 million a year.
- 53 -



The decrease of the number of the children in the institutions will lead to staff dismissal and to
re-deployment of the work force. The increase of the unemployment rate as a result of the
closure of institutions, especially in the smaller municipalities will have a negative social and
economic effect. In 1999 the estimated staff/child ratio is 1.7 in the institutions of the MOLSP,
1.2 in the MOH institutions and 2.8 for the MES institutions. The development of the alternative
forms of care and services for children will create new jobs and will enable the people, who were
employed within the child care system, to obtain additional qualifications and career opportunities.
Through improving the conditions in the homes for children and bringing them closer to the family
homes, the reform will achieve better quality of the care and more valuable growth and
development of the children. Young adults who leave the system, will have better opportunities
for career development, which in turn will contribute to the economic development of the
municipalities.
Component III (Abandonment Prevention & Protection of Children's Rights): For each
child who avoids going into institutions through prevention activities, the budgetary savings could
be as high as BGN 1,800 per annum in 1999 prices - or up to BGN 32,400 up to the age of 18 (in
1999 prices). Moreover, if as a result of the prevention of institutionalization, a child will have a
25 percent higher earning capacity (and thus lower propensity to draw upon social assistance,)
significant additional budgetary and economic gains would accrue over the lifetime of the person
concerned.
Longitudinal studies undertaken in Mississippi of early childhood interventions demonstrated that
the most powerful effect was not so much on the educational results of children, nor even on the
life-time earnings of adults, but rather in the improved social integration and the avoidance of
social problems including imprisonment. Crime, and imprisonment in particular, are very costly
for society involving not only high costs of direct damages, prosecution, incarceration but also the
opportunity cost of the imprisoned not contributing to society. Although difficult to estimate
accurately, crime prevention, and its powerful counterpart social inclusion, are likely to have
extremely high social and economic rates of return.
Component IV (Street Children Services): Many street children resort to substance abuse,
prostitution and other very damaging behaviors, leading to dramatically reduced life-expectancy
and at the very least a very uncertain economic future with minimal earning capacity. The
key-issue is to seek to reintegrate these children in mainstream society, address their health
problems and provide them with some income-earning potential through the completion of basic
education and vocational skills.
Financial Flows, Incentives and Personnel Issues.
The closure of institutions should be carried out in a way which ensures that:
*  the costs do not increase unreasonably because large institutions remain open with a small
number of children in them;
- 54 -



*  the quality of care of the children remaining in the institutions should continue to meet the
necessary standards; and
*  measures are taken to help with the redeployment of displaced staff when institutions are
downsized or closed down.
Financial Incentives
At the level of the institutions it is impossible to provide any real incentive (financial or otherwise)
which will encourage a reluctant director and staff to reduce the size of their institution or close it
down with the only exception might be huge payoffs for most or all of the staff. At the level of the
Ministries there is the difficulty that each of them will lose money from their overall budgets.
They have no financial incentive to reduce the size of their institutions.
It is at the level of the Council of Ministers and the MOF that there is a financial incentive to
change the system as there should be an overall saving to the state budget if more children can
stay at home with their birth families or be placed in foster care adoption. The savings for the
latter depend on how much is paid to a foster family to take care of a child but normally these
costs would be less than keeping a child in a large institution. This saving will not show
immediately as the costs of the institutions will remain at much the same level until they are
closed, whilst there will be extra costs to support the new services and also the costs of the foster
families as these services are built up.
Labor Redeployment Measures
It is very important for the staff in every institution to understand the reasons for the CWR and to
be involved in what is likely to happen to their institution and their jobs as soon as possible.
Senior officials should visit each of the institutions and, together with the Director, explain to all
the staff what the plan is and how it affects their institution and them. The staff should be
encouraged to ask questions and there should be an inquiry point where they can telephone for
advice or infornation in the future as the reform gets underway. In each institutions one or two
persons should be nominated as contact points for information and support for staff.
At the level of each institution, contact should be made as early as possible with the unions
representing the staff. Contacts also need to be established as early as possible with the local
Labor Office, the municipality and with all the employers in the area to explain to them what is
happening. Their cooperation should be enlisted in helping to find suitable work for those staff
who will be displaced.
Written information should be readily available about all the statutory rights that the workers
might be entitled to, under what conditions and how and where it is to be claimed - redundancy
packages, early retirement, unemployment benefit. The director of the institution should ensure
that staff are supported throughout these processes as necessary.
Based on what the plan is for that institution, at the appropriate time, the staff should be offered
the opportunity to take the statutory redundancy package if they wish. All staff should be given
- 55 -



the opportunity to be considered as foster parents. Staff should be transferred to any proposed
family type units or family type homes in the area, unless, for any reason, they are unsuited to
working with children. In the case where an institution loses staff more quickly than anticipated
and need to take on new staff they should take staff displaced from other institutions if this is
feasible.
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
Bulgaria
Child Welfare Reform
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies in Euro
2001      2002     2003      Total
1. Capacity Building                2,453.5   3,701.0   2,943.0   9,097.4
2. De-institutionalization           1,185.5   2,915.6   3,605.0   7,706.1
3. Abandonment Prevention and
Protection of Children's Rights      1,279.7   1,435.4   1,018.5   3,733.6
4. Street Children Services           137.4    320.3    504.0      961.8
5. Front end Fee                       88.0        -         -      88.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5,144.2   8,372.2   8,070.5   21,586.8
IBRD Costs
1. Capacity Building                  694.0   1,070.5   1,015.5   2,780.0
2. De-institutionalization            817.1   1,656.4   2,186.2   4,659.8
3. Abandonment Prevention and
Protection of Children's Rights       238.0    363.1    139.5      740.6
4. Street Children Services           121.8    201.0    208.7      531.6
5. Front end Fee                       88.0        -        0         88
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1,959.0   3,291.0   3,550.0    8,800.0
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  4,160.1   7,128.5   6,518.8  17,807.4
Recurrent Costs                     984.1   1,243.7   1,551.7   3,779.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                  5,144.2   8,372.2   8,070.5   21,586.8
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
Procurement
1. This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Child Welfare Reform
Project proposed for a Bank Loan of Euro 8.8 million equivalent. Bank-financed Goods and
Works contracts under the project will be procured in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published January 1995,
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (henceforth
referred to as Procurement Guidelines), Bank-financed contracts for Consulting Services
required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in
January 1999 (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and
procurement contracts not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
national regulations of the borrower and/or the procurement regulations of the co-financing
institutions. The project inputs, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A. The Procurement Plan is shown in Table Al. Other procurement information,
including prior review thresholds for Bank-financed procurement contracts, and a summary
assessment of the procurement capacity of the coordinating and implementing agencies and
the Bank's review processes is presented in Tables B1 and B2. For procurement under the
Loan, the Borrower would use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents (SBD),
Standard Form of Consulting Contracts and Requests for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid
Evaluation Report Forms.
2. Notification of Business Opportunities: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was
published in the Internet and in the February 2001 issue of Development Business announcing
works, goods and consultant services to be procured, and inviting interested eligible suppliers,
contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary information
from the Borrower. The GPN will be updated annually thereafter for all outstanding
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, and consulting
assignments by Shortlist. Specific Procurement Notices will be published at a later date. For
goods to be procured through ICB, individual bidding opportunities would also be advertised
in a major local newspaper thirty (30) days prior to availability of bidding documents and
transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the published
GPN. The local advertisement procedure would be repeated for all bidding packages utilizing
ICB (at least 30 days in advance of availability of the bidding documents). The local
advertisements would be in the English language and at the option of the Borrower, also in
the Bulgarian language. For consultant services contracts above Euro 200,000, Specific
Procurement Notices/Requests for Expressions of Interest will be advertised in the
Development Business and in a major national newspaper (in the national and English
languages). Contracts procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will
be advertised in the national paper and/or official gazette at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
availability of the bidding documents.
- 58 -



3. Procurement Arrangements: Procurement under the Project includes the contracting of
civil works, goods, consultant services and training during the three-year implementation
period. The project (total cost of Euro 21.59 million including taxes) is financed by a Bank
Loan of Euro 8.8 million, the Bulgarian Government, and cofinanced on parallel financing
arrangements by the EU, UK DFID, and the JSDF. The Government has requested that the
Front-end Fee on the Bank Loan be included in the Loan amount. Procurement procedures
are described in the succeeding paragraphs.
4. The procurement arrangements under the project are primarily based on the Bank
appraisal of the existing procurement management capability of the MOLSP, and its
implementing institutions including the PMU. Experience and lessons learned from ongoing
Bank operations in the HD sector, namely, Health Sector Restructuring Project, and the
Social Insurance Administration Project, have been factored into the design of the
implementation and procurement management arrangements. A draft Procurement Action
Plan has been drawn, which provides a menu of actions and recommendations to build
procurement capacity in the PMU as well as other organizations which have responsibility for
the execution of the project components, and therefore will be involved in the procurement
process. Procurement and disbursements under the project are synchronized in a manner
allowing for a six-month disbursement lag from the time of completion of a Loan-funded
activity to the release of the Loan funds to the supplier/contractor. Government entities are
not eligible to participate in IDA financed contracts unless they meet the criteria under World
Bank Guidelines that they are legally, managerially and financially autonomous, and operate
under commercial Law.
5. Works
The project includes a significant volume of civil works funded by the Bank Loan (Euro 5.02
million aggregate), and, on parallel financing arrangements, by the development partners
(Euro 1.52 million aggregate). These works consist primarily of the refurbishment of existing
facilities, including Mother & Baby Homes, Community Support Centers, simple Street
Children Shelters, Juvenile Holding Facilities, Child Pedagogic Units, and Temporary
Placement Homes. The architectural, engineering and construction documents and technical
specifications for these works will be prepared by qualified architectural-engineering
consultants financed respectively by the Bank or the development partners. Bank financed
architectural engineering services will be contracted in accordance with the procurement
procedures for services described under the Services Section further below. Government
regulations require that works supervision be carried out by licensed supervision firms. These
supervision firms will be contracted also in accordance with the procurement procedures for
services as described below.
(a)   National Competitive Bidding  (NCB) procedures will be used for the
procurement of works contracts for the refurbishment of Mother & Baby Homes and
Community Support Centers. The maximum value of any refurbishment/works contract
under this section, is not expected to exceed Euro 200,000 per contract. The geographic
spread of the facilities do not make it practical to aggregate these contracts in large
- 59 -



packages suitable for procurement through International Competitive Bidding. Thus NCB
procedures and documentation agreed with the Bank, will be used to procure
works/refurbishment contracts estimated at more than Euro 200,000 per package, up to an
aggregate value of contract equivalent to Euro 4.64 million. NCB works bids will be
advertised in the national press and/or official gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to
the lowest evaluated and responsive bidder. The Bank's Regional (Europe and Central
Asia) Standard Bidding Document (SBD) for the procurement of works under NCB will
be used. Government construction entities will be ineligible to participate in Bank
financed contracts unless they meet the criteria under the Bank Procurement Guidelines
that they are legally and financially autonomous, and operate under commercial law.
(b)   Minor Works (MW) procedures will be used to procure contracts for the
refurbishment of Street Children Shelters, Juvenile Holding Facilities, Child Pedagogic
Units, and Temporary Placement Homes. These MW contracts are not expected to
exceed Euro 50,000 per facility, aggregating to about Euro 338,000 equivalent The
geographic spread and timing of these works contracts make aggregation into larger NCB
packages impractical. Thus, MW contracts will be awarded on the basis on quotations
obtained from at least three qualified local contractors in response to a written invitation.
The Invitation to Quote shall include a detailed description of the works, the relevant
drawings, basic technical specifications, the required completion date, and a form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank. The MW contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
evaluated and responsive bidder.
(c)   Non-Bank Financed (NBF) Works. Refurbishing/works contracts similar to the
above will also be financed (under parallel financing arrangements) by other development
partners, including DFID, EU and JSDF. These NBF works contracts (aggregate Euro
1.6 million equivalent) will be procured in accordance with procedures agreed between the
development partners and the Borrower.  Procurement will be undertaken and
administered by the development partners, except for the JSDF financed procurement
which will be administered by the PMU.
6. Goods
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Goods consisting of computer
hardware and software and related office furniture/equipment which are estimated to cost
more than Euro 100,000 equivalent per package, will be procured using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Bid documentation for ICB will be prepared in accordance with the Bank
SBD for the Procurement of Goods revised in March 2000.
(b)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The furniture requirements (dormitory
type beds, tables, chairs, closets, etc.) for the Mother & Baby Homes and Community
Support Centers are of a simple but bulky nature, that would make its supply and delivery
to geographically dispersed locations unattractive to foreign fumiture suppliers, and
unsuitable for ICB. Furthermore, Bulgaria has a sufficient number of domestic furniture
- 60 -



manufacturers able to produce such furniture of suitable quality and at competitive prices.
Thus furniture contracts that are estimated at more than Euro 25,000 per package, up to
an aggregate value equivalent to Euro 727,000, would be procured through NCB in
accordance with procedures and bidding documentation agreed with the Bank.
(c)   International Shopping (IS).  Procedures for IS will be used for procure
off-the-shelf items, such as basic office equipment, vehicles, and dormitory/residential type
equipment and supplies (including bedding, kitchen utensils, etc.). IS would be used for
goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 per package, up to an
aggregate value estimated at Euro 185,000 equivalent. International shopping procedures
will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from
two different source countries, in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines.
(d)   National Shopping (NS). Small quantities of furniture and equipment for the
dispersed project institutions, including minor sundry items, materials and supplies, which
are impractical to aggregate into large packages, and which do not exceed Euro 25,000
per contract, may be purchased on the basis of prudent NS. NS procedures will be based
on a comparison of written price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in
accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The aggregate value of NS contracts is
estimated at Euro 839,000 equivalent.
(e)   Non-Bank Financed (NBF) Goods. Miscellaneous equipment and furniture of a
value aggregating to Euro 1.79 million equivalent will be financed by other development
partners under a parallel financing arrangement. These NBF Goods contracts will be
procured in accordance with procedures agreed between the development partners and the
Borrower.  Procurement will be undertaken and administered by the development
partners, except for the JSDF financed procurement which will be administered by the
PMU.
7. Consulting Services and Training
(a)   Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Most of the large consultant services
packages, such as the design and implementation of the Public Awareness sub-component,
and the development of the CPD MIS, will be procured under QCBS procedures. The
total aggregate value of QCBS procurement is estimated at about Euro 638,000
equivalent.
(b)   Consultants' Qualifications (CQ). Selection procedures based on CQ will be
used for the selection of institutions and/or consultant firms that will carry out training
programs under the project (i.e. the training of social workers and police working on
children issues). The contracts are small (maximum Euro 70,000) and the aggregate value
of CQ is estimated at Euro 220,000 equivalent.
(c)   Individual Consultants (IC). Contracts for the preparation of plans/documents
for the construction and refurbishment of community and institutional facilities are small
- 61 -



and not practical to aggregate into larger design contracts. The preparation of such
plans/documents would be awarded to Individual Consultant engineers/architects.
Individual consultants would be recruited for specialist services such as those rendered by
child crime prevention consultants, comrnmunity facilitators, and social workers, which
would be fixed-term positions of up to 3 years duration. Individuals would also be
recruited for specific skill areas/expertise which would be needed for short periods of time
at scattered intervals, and which would be impractical to package with the assignments for
consulting firms described above. The aggregate value of IC contracts is estimated at
about Euro 370,400 equivalent.
(d)   Least Cost Selection (LCS). The consultant services for the annual financial audit
of the project financial statements and Accounts will be procured in accordance with the
LCS procedures as described in the Bank Consultant Guidelines. The aggregate amount
of the assignment is estimated at Euro 66,000, and would cover the financial audit over
the three year project implementation period. This expenditure is technically defined as an
operating cost, and would be included in the amount reported as part of the annual
operating budget of the PMU.
(e)   Non-Bank Financed Services. Miscellaneous consultant services and training
packages of a value aggregating to Euro 3.96 million equivalent will be financed by other
development partners on a parallel financing arrangement. These services contracts will be
procured in accordance with procedures agreed between the development partners and the
Government. Procurement will be undertaken and administered by the development
partners, except for the JSDF financed services which will be administered by the PMU.
7. Incremental Recurrent Costs
Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project include the day-to-day operational costs
for project implementation including: consumables and supplies, utilities, communications,
internal travel costs, and salaries of additional national personnel needed for carrying out the
project, among others. These recurrent cost items and operating requirements are estimated
at Euro 3.78 million equivalent and will be planned for and executed on the basis of annual
budgets agreed with the Bank prior to the start of the financial year. Financing of incremental
recurrent costs will be borne fully by the Government and will not financed by the Bank Loan.
Procurement of the related expenditure items and services would be in accordance with
normnal Government practice.
- 62 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
CostS in US$ thousands
Procurement Method (Euro '000)
Intematonal    National
CompeUtive   Competitive               Consulting
Bidding      Bidding       Other      Services      N.B.F.       Total
A. Civil WorkstRefurbishment                         -      4,680.5        341.0           -      1,519.1      6,540.6
(3,884.8)     (283.4)                             (4,168.2)
B. GoodstEquipment/Supplies                     2,131.7       733.2      1,035.1           -      1,789.3      5,689.2
(1,775.7)     (610.7)     (862.2)                             (3,248.7)
C. Consultant Services
1. Consultant Firms /a                             -            -           -        638.0      3,042.4      3,680.4
(638.0)                 (638.0)
2. Individual Consultants /b                       -            -           -        370.4        915.6      1,286.1
(370.4)                 (370.4)
3. Financial Audit Ic                              -            -           -         66.0            -        66.0
(66.0)                  (66.0)
4. Local and Foreign Training /d                   -            -           -        220.7        236.5       457.2
(220.7)                 (220.7)
D. Incremental Operating Costs                       -            -           -            -      3,779.4      3,779.4
E. Front End Fee on Bank Loan                        -            -         88.0           -            -        88.0
(88.0)                               (88.0)
Total                                           2,131.7      5,413.7     1,464.1      1,295.1     11,282.3    21,586.8
(1,775.7)    (4,495.5)    (1,233.6)    (1,295.1)         -     (8,800.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
ba Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
\b Individual Consultant Selection (IC)
\c Least-Cost Selection Method (LCS)
\d Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CO)
- 63 -



__________                     Procurement Plan
Bid/RFP
Proposed    Est.  Invitation Bid Docs/RFP       1. Bid
proc.    Numrber   Total  GPN/SPN    1. Drafts         Opeing    Contract Contract
Description   Type  Method         of       Cost      Local     cleared 2.    Evaluation    Signed  Complete
Packages  (Euro  Advertise-  Documents    3. Award
million)    ment       Issue      R3oendat
on
WORKS    =-___                                                                                        _
Construction    CW      NCB        21       4.64   First batch: First batch:    First batch:   First  First
and                                            Local 09/01 1.10/2001     1.11/2001    batch:    batch:
Refurbishment                                         Second   2. 10/2001     2. 12/2001    01/2002   12/2002
of                                            batch: Local Second batch:  3. 122001    Second    Second
Mother/Baby                                           12/2001   1. 01/2002   Second batch: batch:    batch:
Homes, and                                           Third 5   2. 02/2002   1. 02/2002    06/2002   03/2002
Community                                         batch: Local Third batch:   2. 04/2002    Third  Third
CuppommuCenityrs                                    08/2002  1. 09/2002    3. 05/2002    batch:    batch:
2. 12/2002    Third batch:  03/2003   12/2003
1. 12/2002
2. 01/2003
_  _  _                    _                           3. 02/2003     _
Refurbishment  CW        MW          7      0.38       Local   First batch:    First batch:   First  First
of Juvenile                                        First batch 1. 09/2001   1. 11/2001    batch:    batch:
Holding                                            09/2001  2. 10/2001     2. 11/2001    01/2002   05/2002
Facilities, Child                                                             3. 12/2001
Pedogogic
Units,
Temporary
Placement
Homes,             _
Non-Bank               NBF       TBD       1.52    Through-      TBD           TBD         TBD       TBD
Financed Works                                       out the life
of the
______ ______ ___   __ ______ ______ ___   __ _____ p roject _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
GOODS
Computer  |G           ICB        2       2.14       SPN    1. 04/2001     1. 07/2001    11/2001   06/2002
hardware,                                          05/2001   2. 05/2001    2. 09/2001
software and                                                                 3. 10/2001
peripherals   |_______
Furniture for  |G       NCB                0.73   First batch First batch    First batch    First batch First
Institutional                                         Local   1. 04/2001     1. 05/2001    08/2001   batch
facilities                                         06/2001   2. 05/2001    2. 06/2001             03/2002
3. 07/2001
-64 -



CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING
Public       CS    QCBS         2      0.64       SPN    1. 04/2001   1. 08/2001    11/2001   06/2003
Awareness:                                         04/2001  2. 06/2001   2. 10/2001
Design and                                                               3. 10/2001
Implementation;
MIS software
Development
and Training
Preparation of   CS      IC        10      0.37      Local   First batch    First batch    First batch   First
plans/docunent                                      First batch 1. 04/2001   1. 06/2001   08/2001    batch
s for                                           04/2001  2. 05/2001   2. 07/2001              10/2001
refurbishment of                                                           3. 07/2001
physical
facilities;
Consultants on
Child Ccrime
Prevention;
Comnmunity
Facilitors; Social
Workers
Financial Audit   CS     LCS        1       0.07      Local   1. 10/2001    1. 12/2001    01/2002   04/2002
10/2001  2.11/2001    2. 12/2001
3. 12/2001
Local Training   CS      CQ        8       0.22              Through-out
/seminars                                                  the life of the
________ _   _____ ____   ___ _______ project.'_ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _
Non-Bank       CS     NBF                4.19              Through-out
financed                                                   the life of the
Services                                                  project.
Incremental   Other Governm               3.78      TBD    Through-out       TBD         TBD      TBD
Operational            ent                                  the life of the
Expenditure          Procedur                               project.
Items                es               _                   _
Front-end Fee  Other   NA         NA       0.09       NA         NA            NA         NA        NA
on Bank Loan
Total Project Cost in Euro million    21.59
TBD To be determined.  i
NBF Non-Bank financed procurement. Procedures to be agreed between Donors and Borrower.
NA Not Applicable
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
8. Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the
project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table Al), which
will be updated as necessary and included in the progress reports for Bank review and
approval. The Bank will review the procurement arrangements proposed by the Borrower,
- 65 -



including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the scheduling of the procurement
processes, for its conformity with Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, the proposed
implementation program and disbursement schedule. The following procurement action and
documentation would be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.
(a) Works: Prior review of bidding document package (including, inter alia, Invitation to
Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of
Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements, Technical Specifications), Bid Evaluation
Reports; and Recommendations of Contract award will be conducted for: (i) all the first
three NCB contracts and all NCB contracts above Euro 100,000); and (ii) the first two
MW contracts procured each year.
(b) Goods: Equipment, Furniture and Materials: Prior review of bidding document
package (including, inter alia, Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data
Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements,
Technical Specifications), Bid Evaluation Reports; Recommendations of Contract award
and draft Contract will be conducted for: (i) all ICB tenders (contracts above Euro
100,000); (ii) the first furniture contract awarded through NCB and all NCB contracts of
Euro 100,000 and above; (iii) the first two contracts awarded through International
Shopping; and (iv) first two contracts awarded through National Shopping procedures.
(c) Consultant Services and Training: Prior review of procurement documents and
actions will be conducted for:
(i) QCBS. Prior review of (1) short listing criteria for consulting assignments, (2)
Consultants Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); (3) complete Request
for Proposal (RFP) package (including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data
Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms,
Financial Proposal standard forms, and draft Contract Agreement); (4) Terms of
Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical and Financial
Evaluation Reports (including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award;
and (6) agreed Contract and Terms of Reference
(ii) IC contracts of Euro 200,000 and above and for contracts with firms valued at
Euro 50,000 and above: (1) short listing criteria for consulting assignments, (2)
Consultants Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); (3) complete Request
for Proposal (RFP) package (including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data
Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms,
Financial Proposal standard formns, and draft Contract Agreement); (4) Terms of
Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical and Financial
Evaluation Reports (including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award;
and (6) agreed Contract and Terms of Reference
-66 -



(iii) IC contracts below Euro 20,000 and for contracts with Firms below Euro
50,000: (1) criteria for short listing consultants; and (2) Terms of Reference;
(iv) Training. Expenditures related to the provision of Training - Terms of Reference
and training plan, including budget; and
(v) LCS. - Prior review of (1) complete Request for Proposal (RFP) package
(including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data Sheet, General and Special
Conditions of Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal standard
forms, and draft Contract Agreement); (2) Terms of Reference, including description of
services, consultants' reporting requirements, and required qualifications of consultants'
key personnel; (3) Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports (including official minutes)
and Recommendations for contract award; and (6) agreed Contract and Terms of
Reference
9. Following the award of procurement contracts, the Bank reserves the right to conduct
Prior Review of any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract
which would result in a significant change in the scope of the contract (Terms of Reference in
the case of consultant services) and/or an increase or decrease of more than fifteen percent of
the original contract amount.
10. Post-Review. Those contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold, are subject to
the Bank's ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of not less than 1 in 5
procurement contracts will be undertaken during regular supervision missions.
Custom Duties and Taxes
11. All goods specifically imported for the project will be subject to the payment of customs
duties and local value-added taxes (VAT) normally equivalent to 20 percent of the CIP costs.
Works contracts are likewise subject to VAT (20 percent built into the contract price) .
Consultant firms (including foreign consultants) providing services under the project are
exempt from the payment of local taxes on their earnings. Individual consultants (regardless
of residency) are subject to income tax, including employer-paid social taxes, and VAT. All
duties and taxed are paid from the Government contribution. Social taxes are actually a
benefit of the employee and a contribution to the social funds for pension, unemployment, and
medical insurance. The payment of these contributions are included in the amount eligible for
Bank financing.
Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
12. Based on an appraisal of the capacity of the PMU to manage and conduct procurement,
and the information gathered, the following actions were identified and recommendations are
made for improving the PMU's institutional capacity in procurement:
- 67 -



(a) Establish a procurement team within PCU consisting of the Procurement Officer and
the Accountant who will be trained in procurement. As needed, this procurement team
will be assisted by support staff to handle the processing of procurement documentation
and the organization of procurement files consistent with the financial management
requirements of the project. Project funds have been allocated for the participation of
PMU staff in an intensive procurement training abroad (e.g. ILO procurement courses in
Turin).
(b) Involve the technical experts of the RIF PMU, which is also under MOLSP, in the
procurement, and evaluation of works contracts, as well as in quality control checks on
works contracts under implementation:
(c) Finalize the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and ensure that the procurement
procedures described therein for the acquisition and contracting of works, goods and
services related to the project inputs supported by the Loan are consistent with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. The Bank's comments and clearance will be obtained in the
process of updating the PIP to reflect experience from the training received, and
incorporate suggested processes that would improve implementation.
It is expected that Bank supervision missions will be scheduled twice a year. The supervision
team will include a Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS).
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 68 -



Table BI: Summary of Procurement Activities
.__________                     Section 1. Proctrement Review            _
Goods/Works1              ICB               IS/NS             NCB         Minor Works   % of Loan
Amount
subject to
prior review
Procurement      Above Euro 100,000    IS: Less than    Works contracts     Works
thresholds                               Euro 100,000;        above       contracts below
NS: Less than    Euro 100,000    Euro 50,000
Euro 25,000
Aggregates         Euro 2,131,700     IS: Euro 185,000     Works:        Euro 338,000
NS: Euro 839,000  Euro 4,640,000
Fumiture:
Euro 727,000
Prior Review         All contracts    First 2 packages    First 3 works   First 2 MW
for IS and NS    contracts and all  contracts each
works contracts      year
above $100,000
First fumiture
NCB contract and
all furmiture
contracts above
$100,000
Consultants              QCBS             Individual          LCS          CQ/Traing  I
Aggregates       QCBS: Euro 638,000    Euro 370,400      Euro 66,000     Euro 220,700      60%
Prior Review      All contracts above   All contracts    All TORs, RFPs, evaluation reports and
Euro 50,000 with   above Euro         contracts for consultants; Training Plan and
fimns.       20,000 with         budget for fellowships, study tours and local
individuals        training;
Ex post Review                       One in five contracts for works. Minimal for goods, as practically all
Bank-financed contracts are subject to prior review. One in five
contracts for consultant services. In-depth review of procurement
I activities during supervision missions.
Co-financing:
UK Department for International Development (DFID), European Union (EU-
Phare), Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) on parallel financing
arrangements
- 69 -



Table B2: Procurement Capacity Assessment
The MOLSP has established a PMU which will be the institution responsible for managing the
implementation of the Child Welfare Reform Project, including procurement. The PMU is a
new entity and thereby has had no prior experience implementing a Bank-financed operation.
At the time of appraisal, the PMU was not yet organized, and the Procurement Capacity
Assessment focused on the procurement capabilities of the MOLSP as a whole. Consequently,
a High risk rating for procurement is given as the procurement management capability of the
PMU will not be tested until the start of project implementation.
The PMU has a complement of eight Bulgarian operational staff hired as consultants to
administer the project. The PMU comprises a Project Manager, Procurement Officer, Financial
Manager, Accountant, two Child Welfare Specialists, Ethnicity Specialist, and a Staff
Assistant/Translator.  The remuneration of PMU  staff will be financed from  donor
contributions. The Procurement Officer acquired some procurement experience under the
related IDF project, but this was limited to small contracts (shopping) and none in ICB for
goods and works procurement. It is expected that the Procurement and Financial Officers will
both acquire trained in Bank-financed procurement and contract management. Bank funds have
been allocated for procurement and financial management training (ILO/Turin) during the first
year of project implementation. Procurement will be centrally managed/implemented by PMU
with the assistance of staff from component implementing units, brought in on a needs basis, for
the preparation of technical specifications, consultant terms of reference (TOR), as well as
evaluation of proposals. The PMU will be assisted in quality assurance and oversight of works
procurement and implementation (including environmental assessment and oversight) through
hiring experienced technical specialists in this field. The PMU will also be responsible for
coordinating the implementation and administration of project-related investments financed by
JSDF. A Project Launch Workshop scheduled for March 2001, will be the vehicle for
familiarizing implementation staff on Bank procurement procedures and documentation,
including the drafting complete bidding documents and Re quests for Proposals.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country  Are the bidding documents for the
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                procurement actions of the first year
A Country Procurement Assessment Report for Bulgaria ready by negotiations
was completed in June 2000. A copy of the report is Yes ?   No  X
available in the OCS website.
0007; 0 -Sect ioXn 3: rlina Information, and Ieeotnet onPoureme;nt
Estimated    Estimated date of  Indicate if there is  Domestic       Domestic
date of      publication of    procurement subject to  Preference for    Preference
Project      General           mandatory SPN in      Goods           for Works, if
Launch       Procurement       Development Business                  applicable
Workshop     Notice            Yes X                 Yes ?            Yes ?
March 2001   Febr ary 2001     No   ?                No  X            No  X
- 70 -



Retroactive financing                                        Advance procuemen
Yes ?   No  X    Explain:                              Yes ?
No X Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The PMU will
oversee all procurement under the project. The PMU will maintain a
complete procurement file for all components, and shall manage its
Special Account. Evaluation committees will be established upon
commencement of procurement activities. Periodic supervision
missions will review PMU financial records.
Co-financing: EU Phare; UK DFID and JSDF
Section 4: ProcurementStaffl
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the
Project: Child Welfare Reform       Name: Leonardo M. Concepcion Ext: 32859
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
The lack of experience by the PMU as a unit will require more frequent supervision by Bank,
both from headquarters as well as the Bank office in Sofia. Procurement staff in the Sofia will
conduct initial technical review of procurement documentation and follow up on procurement
issues with the Borrower.
- 71 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
13. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines provided in
the IDA "Disbursement Handbook". The procurement and disbursement arrangements are based
on the Bank's appraisal of the procurement and financial management capability of the
implementing ministry and its institutions, as well as the experience and lessons learned from
ongoing Bank operations in the HD sector: Bulgaria Health Restructuring Project, Bulgaria Social
Insurance Project. Project procurement and disbursements are synchronized in a manner that
allows for a six-month disbursement lag from the time of completion of a Loan-funded activity to
the release of the Loan funds to the supplier/contractor. Loan funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within fourteen (14) quarters after the expected effectiveness date of May 15, 2001.
The Project Completion Date is December 31, 2003 with a Loan Closing Date of June 30, 2004.
The disbursement categories and amounts and percentages to be financed under each category are
presented in Table C, as follows:
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in Euro             Financing Percentage
1. Works                              3,920,000                       83%
2. Goods                               3,060,000            100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
83% of local expenditures for
__________________________    _____ _____________________  other items procured  locally
3. Services and Training               1,220,000                      100%
4. Unallocated                         512,000
Total Project Costs                    8,712,000
Front-end fee            88,000
Total                                  8,800,000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents
for expenditures financed on basis of SOEs will be retained by PMU for at least one year after
disbursements and made available for review by Bank representatives and external auditors.
The proposed allocation of Loan proceeds is shown in the Table C above. Disbursements would
not be made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or
which have not been procured according to Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
The Bank Loan is expected to be fully disbursed over a three year period. All applications to
withdraw from the loan will be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the bank's
disbursement handbook. All applications to withdraw will be fully documented, except those for
training and contracts not subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may
- 72 -



be made against certified statements of expenditures SOEs.
Thresholds:
*  Works:                         contracts costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent;
*  Goods:                         contracts costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent;
*  Consulting services - firms:   contracts costing less than Euro 50,000 equivalent;
*  Consulting services - individuals:   contracts costing less than Euro 20,000 equivalent;
*  Training:                      all contracts.
Project accounts will be subject to an independent audit for each fiscal year, in accordance with
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.
Administration of Disbursement:
The MOLSP, through the PMU, will co-ordinate and monitor the overall implementation of
different components of the Project. The PMU will be responsible for the maintenance of a
centrally managed financial management system, including records and accounts, for the
preparation of financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures of all withdrawal applications in accordance with Bank's
guidelines.
Special account:
In order to facilitate Loan disbursement, the Government of Bulgaria will establish a Special
Account in the National Bank or a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
Bank to cover the Banks share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation for the Special
Account would be Euro 700,000 but limited to Euro 350,000 until aggregate withdrawals exceed
Euro 2.5 million. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly, or whenever one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures. Applications for Withdrawal from the Loan will be used
to request: (i) direct payment to third party for amount due; (ii) replenishment to the Special
Account; (iii) reimbursement of payments already made by the Borrower for eligible expenditures;
and (iv) application for Special Commitment.
Financial Management
Project Accounting
The PMU will be fully in charge of all financial management aspects of the Project. A financial
management system (FMS), including accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and
proper internal control systems has been established prior to Board presentation.
By the time of the certification process, the FMS met the minimum Bank financial management
requirements and the Annex 4-B LACI Certification was issued by the Bank's financial
management specialist. The Bank has reviewed the FMS and prepared a report identifying
- 73 -



weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports (PMRs) in view of the transition to PMR-based
disbursements (see Annex 16). The bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the
steps necessary for further strengthening of procedures and staff development during
implementation. The FMS is compatible with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, with the Project Financial
Management Manual and the Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation
Handbook.
The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first
supervision missions and throughout project implementation.
The PMU includes the director, finance manager, accountant, procurement specialist, a nurnber of
technical experts and an assistant. The PMU will maintain all documentation related to project
expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The
PMU will be mainly responsible for keeping the accounting records of the Project, in charge of all
payments, operating the accounting software, handling the Special Account (SA) and the Project
Account (PA - Government contribution), prepare all bidding documents, reporting both to the
bank and the Government, disbursement and auditing.
The accountant will handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are
kept up to date within the accounting software and be in charge of the petty cash arrangements.
The finance manager will supervise the accountant and will be responsible for the planning,
budgeting, consolidation and reporting aspects of the project, reporting to the PMU manager.
She will also establish permanent contacts with the beneficiaries, the accounting department of the
MOLSP, auditors and the Ministry of Finance.
The PMU staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and
evaluate them in accordance with the WB regulations; submit the evaluations to the WB for no
objection; sign contracts in an acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the
contractors; certify (jointly with the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods,
works and services provided in accordance with the terms of reference and the relevant technical
specifications. The payment documents will be prepared by the PMU only after the fulfillment of
the above steps. No project funds may be passed over to beneficiaries or any other parties. The
PMU is the only entity authorized to make payments to suppliers.
Flow of Funds
The PMU will be in charge of operating the SA. The PMU will use an additional, separate
Project Account for the Government contribution. This will be a sub-account of the main
budgetary account of the MOLSP and it will be used only for the Government financing to the
CWR Project.
- 74 -



Internal Controls
The PMU will have to adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices, to ensure that
the Project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The
PMU will report to the Chairman of the PSC and will inform in a timely manner about project
implementation and progress.
All PMU staff must become familiar with the WB regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement,
financial management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A draft Financial Management
manual has been developed by the financial management consultant appointed, documenting
various types of financial transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents
within the PMU and between the PMU and the beneficiaries, the accounting departments of the
MOLSP, PMU's staff responsibilities and measures to ensure a complete segregation of duties, as
well as other internal control procedures.
In addition to the above manual, the PMU will have to follow the procedures set up in the Project
Implementation manual. The PMU staff are requested to document the internal norms that will be
used throughout the life of the Project. These norms will document the day-to-day internal
procedures for each type of activity (such as correspondence handling, contracting and payment
procedures, operation of all bank accounts, petty cash procedures, authorization mechanism,
reporting, filling, etc.)
During the recent past some concerns have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of
donor funds in the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area
of procurement. The risk that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the
defined investrnent program is judged as acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal
the 'ring-fencing' of the Project through the establishment of the PMU, segregation of duties
within the PMU, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to certify the works done before
payments are made by the PMU and an independent yearly audit of project funds by a reputable
audit finm, acceptable to the Bank.
Auditing
Annual financial statements of Bank-financed activities will be prepared in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and audited in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as The
Worldbank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial
Management Manual.
- 75 -



Financial Management Action Plan
Certification of financial management arrangements      Responsibility         Due Date
Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit       Bank FMS             Completed
project prior to project board presentation to confirm
adequacy of project's financial management arrangements
and the issuance the FM LACI certificate 'Annex 4-B'
*    Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit        Bank FMS            04/10/2001
project prior to project effectiveness to follow up and
confirm adequacy of project's financial management aspects
Financial management system
* Customization, installation and test run of the  FM consultant / PMU       Completed
accounting software, draft manual and provision of
initial training
* Final manual and training provided               FM consultant / PMU       02/15/2001
Auditing
* Receive offers from the shortlisted audit firms         PMU                02/09/2001
* Evaluate offers and send to the WB for no objection     PMU                02/16/2001
*  Sign contract in a format acceptable to the WB with  PMU / Bank           03115/2001
the selected audit firm
Project Management Reporting
*    Agree upon the final formats of the quarterly Project  PMU / Bank / FM    Completed
Management Reports (PMRs)                                 consultant
Final customization of the PMRs, full linkage with  FM consultant        02/15/2001
the accounting system, PMR training provided and test run
Produce PMRs as at June 30, 2001 and quarterly         PMU               08/15/2001
thereafter
Consider disbursing on the basis of submitted PMRs  Borrower / Bank      12/31/2001
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
Project Schedule                                  Plannod                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                         .
First Bank mission (identification)             07/18/2000                   07/21/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     09/18/2000                    10/18/2000
Negotiations                                    02/04/2001                   02/01/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/15/2001
Prepared by:
MOLSP and MOI with Bank assistance under the oversight of the PSC.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD, UNDP, UNICEF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
John Innes                        Program Team Leader and Task Leader
Adrian Guth                       Child Welfare Specialist
Leonardo Concepcion               Procurement Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu             Financial Management Specialist
Antonia Viyachka                  Implementation Specialist
Boryana Gotcheva                  Project Officer
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Daria Goldstein                   Lawyer
Nadejda Mochinova                 Program Assistant
PHRD Consultants
Ivelina Cholakova   Project Coordinator
Zoya Kaukova        Child Welfare Specialist
Milena Harizanova    Street Children Specialist
Anne Arthur         Social Policy Adviser
Georgi Bogdanov     Child Welfare Specialist
Mitko Marinov       Training Expert-Management Techniques
Nelly Petrova       Training Expert-Social Work
Rumyan Sechkov      Child Abandonment Prevention Expert
Antonina Zhelyazkova Ethnic Issues Specialist
- 77 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. PIM, January 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Child Welfare Reform Report, February 2000
C. Other
1. Social Assessment of Child Care in Bulgaria, July 2000 (WB/UNDP joint report)
2. Evaluation of the Capacity of the Ministries Responsible for Child Welfare Reform to
Develop and Implement Relevant Policies, September 15, 2000
3. CWR Ethnicity Issues Report, September 2000
4. Prevention of Abandonment of Children in Needy Communities Report, July, 2000
5. Management Training Needs Assessment, July 2000
6. Training Needs Assessment in the Social Care System, July 2000
7. Financial Flows, Incentives and Personnel Issues, August 2000
8. Legal Framework Regulating the Position of the Child in the Bulgarian Legislation,
September 2000
9. Development of Community Support Centers and Mother and Baby Homes, September 2000
10. Model of a Center Working with Street Children, September 2000
11. Juvenile Delinquency and Justice in Bulgaria, 2000
12. MOI CWR Project Proposal Letter, July 20, 2000
*Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in USS Millions                                disbursements
Proiect ID    FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frff  Revd
P055158        2001 EDUCMOD(APL#1)                                     14.39       0.00                             0.00      14.44      -0.15      0.00
P057927        2000 ENVIPRIV SUPT SAL                                  50.00       0.00                             0.00      31.33       1.55      0.00
P070086        2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                       7.40       0.00                             0.00       6.61      -0.06      0.00
P055157        2000 HEALTH SECT REF                                    63.30       0.00                             0.00      58.44      -1.02      0.00
P055156        1999 REG INITS FUND (RIF)                                5.00       0.00                             0.00       0.29       0.66      0.00
P033965        1998 ENV REM PILOT                                      16.00       0.00                             0.00       6.40       6.36      -0.15
P008323        1997 SOC INS ADM                                        24.30       0.00                             0.00       6.84       8.08      0.00
P008315        1996 RAILWAY REHAS                                      95.00       0.00                             0.00      12.04      15.95      0.00
P008318        1996 HEALTH SECT RESTRUCT                               26.00       0.00                             0.00       5.43       8.42      0.00
P008319        1994 WATER COMPANIES REST                               57.00       0.00                            41.00      21.26      63.25     22.25
Total:      358.39       0.00                            41.00      163.08     103.04     22.10
- 79 -



BULGARIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Parnic
1999               BAC Bank                       0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1999               Celhart                       13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00   13.90    1.50    0.00    0.1)0
1998               Devnya Cement                 25.27    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.27    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Euromerchant FND               0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.10
2000               Florina                        3.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.)0
1996               Interlease Inc.                2.93    0.30    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.30    0.00    0.1)0
2000               Kronospan Group               10.64    0.00    0.00    7.66    10.64    0.00    0.00    7.66
1997               Sofia Hilton                  10.80    0.00    2.00     9.50    9.87    0.00    2.00    8.68
Total Portfolio:        67.11    6.80    7.00    17.16   61.11    6.80    7.00   16.34
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999              BPBank                         10000.00     0.00  12400.00      0.00
2001               Doverie                        3000.00   1800.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Podem                          3100.00   2000.00      0.00      0.00
2001               PriceSmart                    32000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     48100.00   3800.00  12400.00      0.00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BULGARIA: Child Welfare Reform Project
EUrope &    Lower-
POVERTY atd SOCIAL                                              Centrat   mtddle.
Sulaarle      Aisi   Income        Development dbmond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          8.2        475     2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     1,390      2,150      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$tuillions)                        11.4      1,022     2.513
Averagiae annual growth. 1993.99
Population /J                                            -046       0.1        1.1
Labor force (XJ                                          -0.5       0.6        1.2     GNP                               Gross
pera           \      /          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1993-99)                                  capita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of poroustion below national poverty line)
Urban Pooulation 0' oftotal population)                   68         67        43
Life exoectancy at birth (years)                          71         69        69
tnfant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                  1 5        22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..          8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (% of poputat/on)          ..        ..        86
tlliteracv I% of population age 15+)                       2          3        16
Gross Primary enrolltent (% of school-age populaeton)     99        100       114               Bulgaria
Mate                                                   100        101       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  9S         99       t16
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1993      1999
1979  t989  19#     19S9      ~~Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ Oitlions)                               -.    21.7        12.3       12A4
Gross domestic investmrrenVGDP                    ,.    33.1       14.7       19.0                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                ..    46.4        45.2      44,1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ,.    31.4        13 7       11.3
Gross national savings3GOP                        ..    28.9       13.3       12.0
Current account balancelGOP                      ,       3,7        4,5       -54      DomestUc                      Ie
Interest Payments/GDP                            ..      2.9        3.7        3.3     S\                             Investment
Total debtGDP                                     ..    46.6       80.8       81.5     S
Total debt service/exports                       ..    29.1        20.6       15.3
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..       .       76.6 
Present value of debt/exports                    ,,        ..     1494
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       19"    1999.03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   4.1      -3.3      3.5        2.4        4.9         -     Bulgaria
GNP  r capita                         3.8      -2.1      5.3        3.5        6.1         ---Lower-middl/-income group
Exoorts of goods and setvices         3.2      .6,4    -15.6       -5.2        9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19g79    1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                      ..    10.9        18.7       15.1     45
Industr                                          ..    59.4        25.5       23.4     15
Manufacturing                                  ..        ..       17.0      14.5     is
Services                                         ..    29.7        55.7       61.5
Private consumption                              ..    61.5        71.2       72.8    -30 1 
General government consumption                   ..      7.1       15.1       15.9              -                e  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                    ..    48.2        46.3      51.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growvth)
Agriculture                                    -2.0     -0.5        1.4        0.6    30
Industrv                                        6.3     -5.6        4.3       -4.4    20 I      p     ,
Manufacturinq                                  ..        ..        6.5      -5.9    10
Services                                        5.1     -1.6        4.0       11.8
Private consumption                             3.3     -4.9       -4.7       -2.9    10             95   go
General government consumption                  5.7     -7.1        4.0        2.0     1
Gross domestic investment                       4.6     -3.0       44.3       18.7    .20
Imports of qoods and services                   3.1     -9.6       -2.8        5.1            -     Exports     imports
Gross national product                          3.9     -2.8        4.6        3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comDared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 81 -



Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1908      1999     Inflation (%)
fJornsOc pHlces                                                                 1,500
(X change).
Consuner pries                                ..      ..      22.3       0.5    t,or       
Implicki GDP deflator                        ..      6.7      22.2       3.1
500
Govrmeont flnance
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                0
Current revenue                              ..   54.2        34.6      35.5             94   95   96   97   as
Current budget balance                        ..     4.8       4.1       3.7           -GDP deflator    C PI
Overall surplus/deficIt                       ..    -1.1       2.8       1.5
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   7,584     4,193    3,967    6000
Consumergoods                               ..   1,960      1,303    1,338
Capitalgoods                                ..   1,150       673       605    40W.
Manufactures                                ..       ..      721       651
Total imports (ci)                            ..   8,343     4,995    4,735
Food                                        ..    536        192       190    2,000
Fuel and energy                             ..   2,585      1,151    1,181
Capital goods                                ..   3,164     1,070    1,061       0
93  94  95  96  97  66  99
Export pnce Index (1995=100)                 ..       69        84       74
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      48        85       83                * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..    144          99       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP 1%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..   8,749     5,981    5,752      4
Imports of goods and serices                  ..  9,077      5,989    6,498
Resource balance                             ..   -328          -8    -746       o         _
Net income                                    ..   -546       -283      -218              9
Net current transfers                                 76       230      300      -4
Current account balance                       .    -798        -61     -664      48
Financing items (net)                        ..    368         393    1,030
Changes in net reserves                      ..    430        -332     -366      12 -
Momo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millbns)        ..       ..    3,057    3,222
Conversion rate (DEC, /oca;7US$)         0.00130  0.00182      1.76     1.84
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      199s      199
(USS millions)                                                                   ComposItion of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         71   10,137     9,907   10,105
IBRO                                        0        0       697      821                   G: 542   A: 821
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Total debt service                            7    2,580     1,296      922                                  C: 1,249
IBRD                                        0        0        57       64
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                              D: 887
Official grants                             0        0        71       80
Official creditors                          0       61        73      212
Private reditors                           14     808         31      171         F: 5,452                   1,154
Foreign direct Investment                  ..       ..       537      783
Portfolio euty                              ..        ..      19        2
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0       101      176      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               0        0       197      213      B -IDA    D-Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal rePayments                        0        0        20       22      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   0        0       176      191
Interest payments                           0        0        37       42
Net transfers                               0        0       140      149
Development Economics                                                                                             9/5/00
- 82 -



Additional
Annex 11
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
GOVERNMENT DE-INSTITUTIONALIZATION STRATEGY AND ACTION PLAN
(Approved by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on December 7, 2000)
I. BACKGROUND
Over the last few years social and economic hardship, caused by the transition from a
centrally planned to a market economy, has led to a sharp drop in the quality of care
provided to children in residential care institutions. In addition, these past ten years have
seen the emergence of the phenomenon of street children. At present, some 3,000 to 5,000
are estimated to be living or working in the streets. A further 45,000 children are dropping
out of school each year and the approximate number of children at risk of severe social
and family marginalisation is twice higher. In 1992, 87,000 babies were born, of which
only 63,000 enrolled in first grade in 1999, i.e. 27,000 less than 1998. School drop-out
rate is on the rise. Total drop-out rate grew from 3 percent in 1989 to 3.3 percent in 1997.
The system of state-supported (institutional) childcare, functioning in Bulgaria
bears the following aspects:
1. State-supported childcare is only provided through public care institutions - of a
boarding school type.
2. Public care institutions are located in remote settlements, primarily villages.
3. The total number of children in these institutions is 35,123. Their relative share ranks
among the highest in Europe (2.15 percent of the child population).
4. Childcare institutions are subordinated to five ministries, respectively:
*  Ministry of Health (MOH) - 4,265;
*  Ministry of Education and Science (MES) - 27,148;
*  Ministry of Labour and Social Policy (MOLSP) - 3,405;
* Ministry of Justice (MOJ) - 145; and
* Ministry of the Interior (MOI) - shelters and centers for temporary stay of children
- 160.
5. The system lacks a consistent state policy on children.
6. The existing childcare system is outdated, costly, inefficient and does not comply with
the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
- 83 -



II. LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES TO ADDRESS THE EXISTING SITUATION
In 1991 the Republic of Bulgaria ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the
Child. On May 31, 2000 the National Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria passed the
Child Protection Act. Amendments to the Family Code are awaiting their second reading
in Parliament. THE GOVERNMENT HAS SET CHILD WELFARE IN BULGARIA
AS A TOP POLITICAL PRIORITY.
III. ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION REGARDING THE REDUCTION OF THE
NUMBER OF INSTITUTIONALIZED CHILDREN.
1. Stepping up prevention activities and immediate support for parents.
2. Creation of alternatives to institutionalization.
3. Development of child welfare services standards and supervision of compliance.
4. Establishment of a National Child Protection Register and a unified Management
Information System (MIS).
5. Optimization of the existing system of financing of childcare institutions.
6. Upgrading the skills and training of personnel employed in the child protection system.
7. Make decisive efforts to sharply reduce the number of street children.
8. Adoption of special programmes for work with minorities, aiming at their social
integration.
9. Increase public awareness and draw local authorities and NGOs towards the
implementation of child protection state policy.
In addressing the above mentioned issues the Government will adhere to the
principle of "the best interest of the child". It will aim at creation of conditions for
every child to be raised in a family environment. These will be realized through:
1. Prevention of abandonment, i.e. where possible, keeping the child in his/her biological
family.
2. Restoration - elimination of the reasons for child abandonment and returning the child
back to the family.
3. Foster care - placement of the child with foster parents to secure hin/her a family
environment.
- 84 -



4. Protection - conditions created by the state, where every child feels safe, including
police protection.
IV. AIMS
In its child protection activities the Government will pursue the following aims:
1. Improvement of the living conditions of children in Bulgaria, irrespective of their
ethnic origin, and provision of protection of their rights.
2. Compliance of national child protection regulatory framework with the EU
requirements.
3. Development of a consistent state policy in the field of child welfare.
V. ACTION PLAN TO IMPLEMENT THE GOVERNMENT POLICY OF CHILD
PROTECTION AND ACHIEVE THE SET AIMS
1. Establishment of structures responsible for the implementation of the state policy on
child protection: State Agency for Child Protection (SACP) at the Council of Ministers;
and Child Protection Departments (CPD) at the Municipal social assistance services.
2. Adoption of Regulations on the SACP operation.
3. Adoption of Regulations on police protection of children.
4. Preparation of a frame legal agreement, governing relations between foster families
and the municipal social assistance services, covering their responsibilities.
5. Compliance between all acts of legislation concerning child protection.
6. Adoption of state standards on child care.
7. Establishment of foster care criteria.
8. Establishment of community support centers for children and their families, including:
*  Mother and Baby Units, providing temporary shelter and support to young
mothers, aiming at   prevention of child abandonment;
*  Family homes, providing living conditions of a family type to children and young
people until a permanent solution is found;
*  Street Children Centers;
*  Family counseling and support centers;
*  Centers for selection and training of foster parents;
- 85 -



*  Centers for rehabilitation and social integration of disabled children.
VI. LONG-TERM SPECIFIC INTERVENTIONS TO BE MADE BY MOH, MES,
MOLSP
MOJ AND MOI REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
GOVERNMENT
STRATEGY OVER THE FOLLOWING THREE-YEAR PERIOD:
1. Gradual reduction of the number of children entering the institutions (by no less than
20 percent at 3rd year end).
2. Provision of alternative forms of child care for institutionalized children aged 0-7 ( for
no less than 25 percent of children by 3rd year end).
3. Reduction of the capacity of residential care institutions, and where possible, closure
of these.
4. Reintegration of street children into a family environment (not less than 20 percent 3rd
year end).
5. Development of special school programrnes and services for children in areas of
compact ethnic minorities, aiming at abandonment prevention and reducing the illiteracy
rate among these.
6. Development of joint programmes (between state, municipality and NGOs) to provide
for living conditions and jobs for the young people, who have come of age 18 and are
leaving the institutions.
7. Improvement of living conditions of children in institutions not designated for closure.
8. Preparation of qualification programmes to train social workers in child protection
skills.
9. Training of police officers dealing with child protection.
10. Close cooperation and interaction with non-governmental organizations, which
specialize in child care.
11. Optimization of the financing system of child.protection activities, by rechanneling of
funds from residential care institutions to alternative care models, including foster families.
VII. IMMEDIATE TASKS TO FULFILL
1. Development of the structure of the SACP and inclusion of its budget plan into the
2001 Republic of Bulgaria Budget Bill.
- 86 -



2. Restructuring of Municipal social assistance services with a view to establish CPD
within them. Allocate funds for that through the Budget Bill.
3. Plan for the 2001 Budget Bill and the following years, so as to ensure the necessary
funds for the Bulgarian contribution to the international financing of the reform - the BGN
amount of US$ 1,000,000 (one million) per year over the following three years.
4. In the 2001 Budget Bill and the following years allocate the necessary funds for the
selection, training and support of foster families.
5. Organization of training for the SACP and CPDs' personnel, with a view to acquire
necessary professional knowledge in the area of work with children.
6. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall be issued authorization to negotiate
and sign a Loan Agreement with the World Bank and other development partner
agreements.
7. A Master Plan for Deinstitutionalization, to be prepared jointly by the MOLSP, the
MOH, the MES, the MOJ and the MOI, and including:
*  Evaluation criteria for the closure and restructuring of institutions (number of
institutions by municipalities, quality of child care, physical and human resources,
psychological climate, location of institutions (town, village), staff/children ratio,
social status of children, profile of the institution's personnel - number of
commuting staff, financial situation, staff turnover, qualifications, attitude of local
authorities to the institution, result from previous attempts at closure, good
practices development, etc.);
*  Prospects for children from the institutions about to be closed (possible alternative
services);
*  Prospects for the personnel of institutions, designated for closure (retraining and
redepolyment, including opportunities for foster care and provision of other
welfare services);
*  Interventions to increase public awareness;
*  A schedule of the closures (reduction of the capacity) of existing residential care
institutions.
8. Development and implementation of a national Management Information System and a
national Child Protection Register, based on the information system of the National Social
Assistance Service.
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 12
BULGARIA: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT
Summary
Background
At the moment the responsibilities for child welfare are separated among five ministries (MOLSP,
MES, MOH, MOI and MOJ) and the municipalities. The non-governmental sector exists but is
hindered by a lack of experience and institutional capacity, as well as by the limited possibilities of
the state institutions to effectively support and partner the third sector.
A major objective of the present study is the analysis of the role of the new CPA and the
evaluation of the capacity of the administrative structures responsible for the child welfare reform
to undertake the necessary development of policies for the reform and the associated
implementation of those policies. The evaluation includes the organizational structures, job
descriptions of the staff, their qualifications, the information and financial flows in the system, as
well as the respective mechanisms for coordination and communication between the different
institutions.
Methodology
The methodology of the study included:
*  analysis of the legal documents (laws, regulations, orders);
*  interviews with experts from the central ministries in the MOLSP, MOH, and MES;
*  structured interviews in ten municipalities (Dobrich, Razgrad, Gabrovo, Teteven,
Belogradchik, Bobovdol, Nevestino, Rakitivo, Laki and Haskovo) with: representatives of
the municipal administration, directors of the MSAS, directors of social institutions for
children located on the territory of the respective municipality; and
*  secondary analysis of data and results from other studies of Club Economika 2000 and the
Foundation Care International Bulgaria in this area.
The conclusions and recommendations from the survey are summarized under the following
headings:
*  Making policy decisions for social services provisions;
*  Possibility of MSAS to provide services projected in the CPA and to coordinate the
activity of all interested institutions in this sphere;
*  Possibilities for human resource management;
*  Mechanisms for funding the provision of services;
*  Coordination among the ministries responsible for the implementation of the CPA; and
- 88 -



* Functions of the SACP.
Making policy decisions for provision of social services
According to the legislation, policy decisions in the sphere of education, health care and social
assistance are the responsibility of the central state bodies.
The decentralized bodies of the central administration - Regional Administrations, Regional
Educational and Healthcare Inspectorates, MSAS are responsible for implementing the state
policy within the respective regions in the country. Their functions are, however, over regulated
by methodical instruction to the institutions and control over the legality of the municipal
decisions
The institutions providing social services - educational, health and social services, have limited
authorities for decision making - for example, for opening of special classes related to the specific
needs in the territory of the municipality. The implementation of the legislation, depends to a
large extent on the interaction (personal, party, etc.) between the decentralized bodies,
municipalities and social institutions at the local level. The general conclusion is that in the sphere
of social services the authority for deciding policy is strongly centralized.
MSAS possibilities to provide services projected in the CPA and to coordinate the activity
of all interested institutions in this sphere
The necessary prerequisites for provision of the full set of services for children at risk projected in
the CPA are not yet in place. The subsidiary legislation and the necessary structures still have to
be established.
For the time being the MSAS perform some activities for child protection and provide financial
assistance for poor families. The CPA, but were not very well acquainted with the details and all
the changes in their work that will come about. The management staff of the MSAS are,
however, familiar with some forthcoming tasks in relation to the implementation of the Act, e.g.
setting up a register of children at risk in the territory of the municipality. Details of some of the
provisions and responsibilities still have to be set out. There is a need for active technical support
and consulting about types of services, by using the experience of West-European consultants or
such from other countries in transition that have already implemented similar reforms.
It will be important to ensure that the necessary funding for the child welfare reform is included in
the proposals for budget allocations for 2001. The relationship between the central and municipal
budgets also needs to be considered. The question of remuneration for foster families needs to be
settled together with the associated budget allocation. There should be clear guidance for the
new administration which ensures the correct application of all the related legislation in the social
field. There is need for technical assistance for building a uniform information system, creating
registers of the children at risk and a database of the non-governmental organizations in the
territory of each municipality.
Potential of the MSAS to co-operate with the NGOs and contract out services
The NGO sector in Bulgaria has a significant positive potential for providing different types of
social assistance The weakness of the NGOs in Bulgaria is linked to their lack of status, the way
- 89 -



the funding mechanisms work and the general lack of information support and the weaknesses of
the social assistance system.
Also, there is a certain lack of professionalism in the work of many organizations. This is shown
in the lack of a clear policy direction and strategy for the development of services, lack of
professional skills and methodology in the areas in which they work, insufficient communications
with others, lack or organization and insufficient importance paid to the need for a reliable
information service and human resource management in the organization.
The responsibility of the state should be mainly to create conditions for competition, to develop
standards for the provided services, financing on a competitive basis and the termination of state
monopoly. The CPA contains provisions that make the state more active and powerful. The legal
entities, particularly the non-for-profit ones should be more energetic in exercising their rights.
All institutions (state and private) should be legal entities. Only in this way, they can directly
undertake rights and obligations, to compete for donor funds and improve their quality of work.
Possibilities for human resource management
In the institutions studied there are no working modem systems for human resource management,
based on the principle of the quality of work. Such systems as there are, so not meet modem
requirements for recruitment and motivation of the staff. There is no effective system for
enhancing or ensuring appropriate qualifications particularly in the units subordinated to the
municipalities.
The requirements for staff working in the child protection field are very low. The social workers,
the supervisors and the other people, working with children at risk are not enough aware of the
legislation. The staff have experience, but lack modem qualification and skills for social work
with individual cases. In the studied units at the municipal level there was a positive attitude
towards the non-material incentives for work. There is a lack of the necessary professional skills
and specialists to create and maintain an information system and register of children at risk.
Human resource management should be improved and directed mainly to the development of a
modem system for human resource management with the essential elements, related to the
recruitment, selection and appointment of staff, the development of a system to ensure that staff
have the opportunity to acquire appropriate qualifications and for development. An important
consideration in relation to the priority need for individual work with children if the effect of that
on the number of staff in the MSAS and the associated salary costs.
Mechanisms for financing the service provision
The main problem is related to the need to modemize these mechanisms. The possible solution is
seen in two directions.
First, in changing the system from one of financing activities to one of financing of services. For
this purpose, it is necessary to develop standards for financing a unit of service e.g. costs per child
- 90 -



placed in social care institutions, costs for the allowance of one child raised in foster family, etc.
The drafting and accepting of these standards should be within the powers of the public
institution, which manages and finances the respective activity. The standards should be
differentiated by types of services and by regions of the country. They should ensure that the
minimum quality standards set by the state are met. The director of the respective social
institution or activity should have full powers to organize the provision of social services within
the available financial resources.
Second, implementation of the principle of financing based on competition. The idea is that social
services are provided under contract after offers for the required service are evaluated against
pre-determined criteria by competent state authority (e.g. line ministry). The project is assigned to
the organization, giving the best offer, which will use the respective financial resources, provided
by the entity, which has conducted the contest. The needed pre-requisite for this modernization is
the adoption of national minimum standards for the quality of all social services.
Co-ordination among the ministries responsible for implementing the CPA
Despite the preparation work, more needs to be done to ensure that the systems of MOLSP, MES
and MOH are ready enough to implement the CPA. The relations between the institutions are still
based more on goodwill and are not well regulated. The availability of many institutions
subordinated to different ministries might impede co-ordination. This problem might be difficult to
overcome even after the establishment of the SACP, because the different institutional
subordination could continue to create difficulties at the service users' level.
It is necessary to consider creating a network of service support centers, where the clients would
be able to receive easy access and information about benefits and services. The most suitable
places for the establishment of such centers seem the departments within the MSAS. The
education, health care, rehabilitation and integration of children should be equally included as
types of activities in all institutions. The division of the institutions in social-health and educational
ones is out of date and should be abolished.
Functions of the GACP
There is needed active public debate and exchange of professional ideas for the drafting of
subsidiary legislation for the CPA, to make the functions of the SACP, as specified in article 19 of
the CPA, more concrete. The SACP should be given effective control powers in order to
guarantee priority of the children's interests in the methodological guidance and control over the
MSAS. It is necessary to establish the links between the SACP and the NCCP with consultative
functions clearly. Measures should be taken to ensure that information is available to all
professional groups working in the child protection field and that they can make representations
to the NCCP.
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 13
BULGARIA: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT OF CHILD CARE
SUMMARY
Introduction and Methodology
A social assessment was carried out to obtain infonnation about the attitudes of socially
disadvantaged families, about the present situation in child care institutions, about the
perceptions of their staff and the children placed there, about the practices and attitudes of the
other players of the central and local level regarding child care.
The study covers children of three age groups: 10-14, 15-18 and young people aged 19-24.
1,030 children were interviewed in 89 institutions belonging to the MES, MOJ, and MOLSP
(for those MOLSP institutions which house children with disabilities, only children with
physical disabilities were interviewed). A total of 1,004 interviews were conducted with the
mothers or carer in socially disadvantaged families, 1,030 interviews were conducted with
children and young persons in institutions and 554 interviews with staff working in
institutions.
Background
Over the last 10 years the relative share of children in the population as a whole has declined
(from 25 percent in 1989 to 20 percent in 1999), while the number of children in residential
institutions and the number of school drop-outs has grown. During the same period the
population has decreased from 9.0 million in 1989 to 8.2 million in 1999. Birth rates (per
1,000 population) have fallen from 12.7 in 1989 to 7.9 in 1998 and death rates (per 1,000
population) have risen from 12.0 in 1989 to 14.3 in 1998. School attendance has fallen.
School enrollment in 1989 stood at 98.4 percent dropping to 94.3 percent in 1998. After
1991 the percentage of children dropping out from school has risen from 3.0 percent in 1989
to 3.3 percent in 1997.
The number of children in institutions has increased. The relative share of children, aged 0-3,
placed in specialized institutions under the MOH has grown from 874 (per 100,000) in 1989
to 1,300 (per 100,000) in 1998. The relative share of children with disabilities in institutions,
aged 0-17, has increased from 108 (per 100,000) in 1989 to 121 (per 100,000) in 1997. At
the end of 1999 there were a total of 34,122 children, or 1.8 percent of Bulgaria's child
population in specialized institutions under the MOH, the MES, the MOLSP, and the MOJ.
- 92 -



Reasons for the Institutionalization of Children
Poverty and lack of alternative social services, ensuring support to the families of socially
disadvantaged children, are the main reasons determining the risk of institutionalizing
children
* The primary reasons for institutionalizing children from socially disadvantaged families
(for the purpose of this study defined as those receiving benefits under the Birth
Promotion Decree and the Social Assistance Act) is related to the hardships these families
have to cope with in bringing up their children (economic, psychological and social). This
is exacerbated by the absence of real alternatives to institutionalization.
* The major problems faced by these families is a poor quality of life their environment and
access to education. Financial incomes have a major influence on the quality of life of
socially disadvantaged families. In only 2 percent of the interviewed families, both parents
have a permanent job. Unemployment benefit only minimally alleviates the economic
situation in the families. The average monthly income per household member is BGN 33,
but it is greatly influenced by the ethnic and cultural origin of the mother and by the
number of the children in the family. It is lowest in Roma families, and in families with
more than 3 children (BGN 23). Compared with this, in 1999 the average monthly cost per
child placed in an institution was as follows: BGN 1 1 1 in the institutions under the MES;
BGN 232 under the MOLSP; BGN 288 under the MOH; and BGN 598 under the MOJ.
The costs cover food, clothing, medicine, training aids, staff wages and remuneration,
health insurance contributions, and overheads.
* The largest spending of families is for food (96 percent), followed by utilities (73 percent),
clothes (30 percent) and small treats for the children (26 percent). The distribution of their
expenses shows that the families can afford only essentials. Given this compressed
spending profile, children nevertheless continue to have priority compared to what is spent
on the needs of the adults.
* Roma children are the most undernourished, both in terms of the number of meals per day
(less than 3) and of food quality. The children in families with more than 3 children also
do not eat enough or well.
* A total of 62 percent of the children of interviewed families had been ill several times in
the winter. 67 percent of the families are not used to taking their children for medical
check-ups. (This compares with 49 percent of the children in institutions falling sick, and
only 7 percent who were not taken for medial check-ups.) This information points to the
higher standard of health care in institutions compared to that in families that are social
disadvantaged. The large percentage of children in social disadvantaged families who have
not had medical check ups is determined by the availability and access to health care and
also by the health education and understanding of the parents.
- 93 -



* The families' living conditions are such that they do not meet the criteria for acceptable
conditions and in a total of 35 percent of them children do not each have their own bed. In
Roma families this figure reaches 56 percent.
From the point of view of the quality of life, the most vulnerable are children in ethnic
Roma families, in famiies with more than 3 children and with children over 6 years of
age, in the families of single mothers, and in families, where the mother is over 30.
* The parents with more than three children and with children who are above 6 years old,
Roma, and single mothers devote substantially less time to their children.
* When the number of children in the family grows to more than three, parents and children
play together less, as there is more housework for them to do.
* The quality of life has an important influence on repressive inclinations. Incomes, as well
as the number of children in the family (more than 3) have an influence on the parents'
choice of punishment as well as the ethnic and cultural origin of the mother. In case of a
child's wrongdoing, physical punishment is most often the choice of Roma families (27
percent) and families with more than three children (32 percent), compared to 15 percent
of all parents, who resort to this type of punishment.
One of the major risks for chUdren from socially disadvantaged families is of dropping out
of schooL
- 18 percent of the interviewed families have children at school age who have dropped out
of school, meaning that in correlation to the aggregate number of children at school age,
there are 66,000 drop-outs. The percentage of school dropouts is highest for Roma
children (32 percent), followed by the Bulgarian (8 percent), and the Turkish (6 percent).
* The primary reason for dropping out of school is because the families cannot afford the
cost of education (91 percent). This is the reason given by all Bulgarian Muslims (100
percent).  Among the interviewed Turks, the prevailing explanation is insufficient
knowledge of the Bulgarian language (22 percent).
For both the interviewed socially disadvantaged famiies and the staff of the childcare
institutions, the advantages of institutionalization are that it can satisfy the chUdren's vital
needs for food, health and education.
* Those who accept institutionalization as a possibility for temporary or permanent
upbringing are, mainly, the Roma families (30 percent), followed by Bulgarian families (16
percent), and the Turks (11 percent). Bulgarian Muslim and Turkish mothers do not make
this choice at all.
* All ethnic and culture groups give preference to placing a child in the care of relatives.
The foster family alternative is not very popular. Bulgarian Muslim and Turkish mothers
do not make this choice at all. The disposition of Bulgarian and Roma mothers is a
prerequisite for the promotion of the foster family as an alternative to institutional
- 94 -



childcare: when asked to consider the permanent placement of the child outside its family,
they more frequently choose a foster family, and more infrequently a childcare home.
0 The option of placing a child temporarily in a childcare home was selected by families with
more than 3 children and single mothers interviewed much more frequently compared to
the total percentage of parents, who have chosen this answer.
Placement in a childcare institution is the last resort for 1.9 percent of the surveyed
socially disadvantaged families, who have children placed in a specialized institution, and
would be considered as a possible permanent childcare solution by 0.5 percent, and as a
temporary solution by 7. 6 percent of the families.
* About 1.5 percent of the interviewed parents are considering putting up their children for
adoption. Therefore, according to the date from the quantitative analysis, 6,804 socially
disadvantaged families in this country have placed their children in specialized institutions.
Using the date from the survey of the staff in 114 childcare institutions and applying this to
the total number of homes, it is estirnated that 7,180 children from families were placed in
institutions in 1999. The conclusion is that approximately 95 percent of the children in
institutions are from social disadvantaged families.
e It is estimated that the number of children who are at risk of being placed in childcare
institutions, either temporarily or permanently, is approximately 29,500.
5,400 children with disabilities are placed in childcare institutions.
3 Children with disabilities are at risk of being institutionalized, because of the absence of
psychological and social support for their parents, particularly in the maternity hospitals.
3 Institutionalization is the most widespread social service related to the rearing of such
children. However, these institutions do not offer specialized and adequate care for the
autistic and mentally handicapped children.
i So far, the only alternative social service to institutionalization is the Day Care Centers for
children with disabilities. The direct consumers of the services they offer are the children
with disabilities who are reared in a family environment. The social effect for the parents
is in the free time they can have, and the adequate information they get about their child's
problem. The psychological effect is in the general progress of the child, and the
opportunity for the child to socialize with people outside the family.
Institutionalization is the only real social service that children, neglected by their
parents/guardians, can get.
* There is no system for the identification of child abuse or neglect in the family nor is there
a mechanism to set the judicial system in motion in the cases of abused children. Where
the courts are involved there are no mediation services or representation services for the
children. For those cases that come to light institutionalization is usually the only service
offered to these children. The often are placed in the institutions for children with deviant
behavior.
- 95 -



* There are no modern services, assistance and support provided to children with proven
deviant behavior, nor for those who are potential cases of antisocial behavior.
* There are a number of measures and sanctions for children (and their parents) who show
antisocial behavior. The common practice is to apply these sanctions to children who are
at risk of committing antisocial acts. This increases the risk of institutionalizing children
who have not committed any antisocial offense.
* The system punishes the children for misdeeds rather than providing for preventive work
with them and care and support for the children and their families. Antisocial behavior is
often an expression of unsatisfied needs and other problems (victims of violence, begging,
runaways from specialized institutions).
* Notwithstanding the ban on physical punishment, violence is used in some of the
reformatory institutions.
Street children have a restricted access to education, health and protection from violence,
which are their guaranteed rights under both the UN CRC and Bulgaria 's Constitution.
i The services which are offered are only those that meet street children's pressing needs,
and nothing is done to address the causes of their living in the street.
i The services that are provided for the social reintegration of street children are
unsatisfactory.
* The most serious risks facing street children are violence and limited access to education.
The agency responsible for their welfare is the same agency that works with children with
antisocial behavior. Prevention work with parents and children is insufficient.
Institutionalization - diagnosis, counseling and placement of disadvantaged children
into specialized institutions
Two basic procedures are involvedfor a child to be referred to and placed in an institution:
diagnostic examination and placement of the child in a specialized institution, and the
decision on where the child should be placed.
* The boards deciding whether a disadvantaged child is to be referred to and placed in a
specialized institution have members who are experts in only the nature and degree of the
deficiency, disease, or disorder of the child. Their evaluation is based on the existing
system normally concentrates on what institution is appropriate for the child.  The
procedures do not ensure a comprehensive opinion in the best interest of the child and the
practice and regulation of the system is conducive to the institutionalization of children.
*  There are cases of children being institutionalized where the judgment and a decision about
- 96 -



the placement being taken by an interested party (e.g., the director of an institution, or a
member of the board of experts making the decision work in the institution in which the
child is to be placed).
*  Similarly, the specialized expert boards (Diagnosis Committee, Medical Advisory
Committee, Labor Expert Medical Committee) are not required to make a comprehensive
analysis of the specific case or to propose a decision base on the best interest of the child.
The judgment focuses on the degree of disability, or the severity of the disease.
* The Diagnostic Board determines a child's "eligibility" and to which specific specialized
institution under MES the child should be referred. The boards are governed by the
regional inspectorates of MES, and include experts, who have a vested interest in the
child's institutionalization, since they work in this same institution. The budget for the
institutions depends on the number of children placed in it.
* The Local Committee for Combat against Minors' and Juveniles' Anti-Social Behavior
(LCCMJASB) has administrative and punitive functions in relation to children with deviant
behavior. The members of those committees are insufficiently trained to perform their
functions. The members who work on the Committee are drawn from volunteers some of
whom work in the local authority. None of the members are required to have specific
knowledge on the problems of children with behavioral problems. Because they have
other jobs and do not always attach sufficient importance to their duties in relation to these
Committees, the quality of the service provided by these Committees suffers.
The legislation does not provide sufficient guarantees for the protection of the rights of the
child to be heard and to have a defender in the Local Committee's proceedings.
*  There are insufficient guarantees in the procedures when the case comes before the
Committee and for the court review of any LCCMJASB ruling for placement in Instructive
Boarding Schools under the MES. The district courts act unilaterally and the judges have
no specialized training. It is a common practice to approve the suggestions or the
decisions of LCCMJASB.
* Attempts are being made to restrict the access to specialized institutions with new MES
and MOH Rules, which refuse access to certain social groups. namely children from large
families, children of single mothers and of socially disadvantaged families. These are the
most vulnerable groups in terms of quality of life and social and psychological family
environment.
Institutional care
The quality of life and care in the specialized institutions including perceptions of children
and staff in the institutions:
From the children's point of view:
*  24 percent of the children in institutions have families and relatives and have been placed
- 97 -



there due to poverty.
* The institutions satisfy the children's needs for education, health, shelter and food. As far
as these indicators are concerned, the institutions provide better care than the socially
disadvantaged families.
* In 1999, the average monthly cost per child in the institutions was BGN 153, against an
average monthly income of BGN 33 per household member in socially disadvantaged
families.
* Normally, children in institutions have 3 or more meals a day: 32 percent have more than
three meals a day; 61 percent have three meals; 6 percent -- two, and only 1 percent -- one
meal a day. In socially disadvantaged families, the proportion of those who have three
meals a day is lower (42 percent).
* The percentage of children, who were not sick even once in winter, is higher for the
children in the institutions (49 percent) than for those living in socially disadvantaged
families (23 percent).
* The children in the institutions, who have families (40 percent), come mainly from farnilies
of single mothers, families with poor living conditions, and large families. Of them,
* 67 percent of the children interviewed said they keep in touch with their parents, 15
percent said they do not and 18 percent said they do not have parents.
* For the 67 percent, the usual way of keeping in touch is by visiting the parents (73
percent). Much more rarely parents visit their institutionalized children (18 percent of
interviewed children).
* Activities to maintain the links between children and their families are missing.
Children in institutions do not manage to establish a lasting relationship with an adult
who matters, which leads to the development of an unstable personality. The only lasting
relationships built in the special institutions are those between children. Leaving the
institution, they feel insecure and unstable.
*  During the time spent in institutions, especially in the first years of their life, children from
Roma families become estranged from the cultural traditions of their parents, they change
their ethnic and cultural affiliation, and when they leave the institution they can hardly find
an adequate ethnic and cultural environment to integrate into.  28 percent of the
interviewed children identify themselves as Roma, while it should be in the range of 41 -55
percent, according to the documentation of the specialized institutions.
* Most often, the child's closest person within the institution is the instructor (56 percent),
followed by a teacher (41 percent), the director (27 percent), and a member of the service
staff (27 percent). It is only natural for the child's closest friend to be from within the
- 98 -



institution, rather than from outside and that it should be the instructor, who spends a lot
of time with the children.
* 67 percent of the children point that their best friends are, either, from within the
institution they live in, or from their school. 12 percent of the children say that their best
friends live in the same area, and 14 percent that their best friends live in the area where
their parents do.
* The large percentage of those with friends from within the institution is due to the
confinement of the institutions. In many cases the children simply have no choice.
* The research shows that the children's self-sufficiency and independence are not what the
specialized institutions are seeking to achieve. The life of the children there is regulated,
and is reduced to only limited contacts with the community. This does not allow them to
develop any social skills for an independent living.
* For 66 percent of the children the most important thing for them after leaving the
institution is to find a job. Thirty-six percent of the children are planning to continue their
education. Seventeen percent believe that it will be very important to create a family, but
only 5 percent want to have children.
* Fifty-six percent of the children think that their future job depends on their own efforts.
21 percent believe that their future job depends on the government, and 15 percent think
that their job will be depend on the institution where they grew up.
* Most of the children would prefer to devote their spare time to sports (43 percent), to
playing computer games (29 percent) and to listening to music (29 percent), but in
practice, they spend their spare time watching TV (87 percent).
- Twenty-six percent of the children would like to work in their spare time to earn some
money. Those who do have a job, work in the area where the institution is located. Only
18 percent work in the institution itself 22 percent of the children say that they find
alternative ways of earning money. The qualitative research makes the assumption that
these alternative jobs might include prostitution and theft. 22 percent of the children under
14 years of age work "sometimes or often".
The children do not give a firm answer to a direct question about their choice between an
institution and a family. Each of the options receives an almost equal amount of support.
Perhaps, this is because the children who have parents are placed in special institutions
because of extreme poverty or an unfavorable family environment, often involving
domestic violence.
* This issue requires an individual approach to each institution, irrespective of its type,
nature, status and subordination. When developing alternatives to institutional care and
services to prevent abandonment, it is important to take account of the human factors,
namely the relationships between the children, their families and the staff.
99 -



*  The major advantages of the institutional life for a child are the material conditions whilst
in the family it is security.
From the point of view of the staff.
*  According to the staff of the specialized institutions, the children there seem much more
dependent (66 percent), less decisive (33 percent), and less responsible (34 percent), less
selfish (50 percent) than children living in a family (where the percentages are,
respectively, 44 percent, 53 percent, 60 percent, 13 percent). Overall, the staff (78
percent) do not believe the institutionalized children have good opportunities for career
development, social integration and personal life.
*  At first glance, a child's lack of selfishness could be considered a positive trait but, in the
context of a long institutional record, it could be interpreted as lack of confidence.
*  The individual approach is the prevailing form of working with the children: 47 percent of
the staff interviewed say they work with each child individually; 18 percent work with a
group of children; 11 percent say that they work with a specific group of problematic
children; and 15 percent state that they work with all children together.
i  The individual approach predominates among psychologists (77 percent). Social workers
and instructors prefer to work with groups of different children (respectively, 20 percent
and 27 percent).
*  The majority of the interviewed (71 percent) think that their best expertise is in the
psychological and physical development of the children. Among them, MOH staff
constitute a majority - 86 percent. The second area in which staff think they have good
expertise is pedagogical methods for child upbringing, counseling and support (66
percent). Educational methods rank third (52 percent).
*  The majority of interviewed psychologists (44 percent) say they understand counseling and
family support techniques. The directors (65 percent) and social workers (42 percent)
indicated as their best knowledge-management and work planning in a social institution.
*  One of the major problems of institutional care is the lack of effective work with parents.
*   Some 71 percent of the staff interviewed think that a visit to the parents makes children
want to visit them again the following week, which suggests the need for working with
parents. Mostly the doctors (80 percent) and the psychologists (85 percent), and then the
social workers (50 percent) support this statement.
*  The opinion of the staff on the best environment for the child is split between an institution
with excellent conditions and the family. When giving priority to the family environment,
they don't have the natural family in mind. There is a prevailing negative attitude to the
- 100-



natural parents.
*  Employees from different jobs and professions adopt different points of view on childcare.
This proves how important teamwork is to provide a network of emotional support with a
common objective. The researched "best practices" in the specialized institutions confirms
the motivating role of teamwork and its contribution of overcoming the limits of
anonymous routine childcare. Teamwork is hardly practiced at all in the specialized
institutions being reduced to hand over of shifts or discussion of operational problems.
*  For the staff, the main advantage of their work is in the satisfaction from working with
children (65 percent). Nevertheless, the combination of stress (61 percent) and low wages
(77 percent) leads to emotional breakdown, so that, to "protect" themselves from this,
staff shut themselves up in routine and impersonal childcare tasks.
*  The main reasons for the stress in the work of the staff of childcare institutions are the lack
of parents and the resulting emotional and behavioral problems of the children; the
unfavorable children-to-staff ratio; the prevailing lack of teamwork as a network for
emotional support in reaching for a common goal; the low public esteem for the efforts of
those working in homes, combined with the low salaries.
*  The staff of the surveyed childcare institutions have predominantly pedagogical (34
percent) and teacher (20 percent) qualifications. This is mainly because the institutions
under MES are obliged to hire as "instructors" qualified teachers. The officially declared
goals of these institutions are childcare, upbringing and nurturing.
_  The specialists best fit for these positions are graduates in social work and social
pedagogues but in the typical case, they do not have a pedagogical qualification, so they
can not join any of the special schools under the MES.
*  Noticeably, the percentage of psychologists is highest at the Medical-Social Care Homes
(MSCH) for children under the MOH (6 percent). In the specialized institutions under the
MES, the psychologists are 4 percent, in the MOLSP institutions, they constitute 1
percent, and in the MOJ, there is not even one. (This is mainly due to the tendency to build
multidisciplinary teams, which is characteristic trend in the restructuring of the MOH
institutions in the last three years.)
*  None of the interviewed MOJ employees is a social worker. The low percentage (9
percent) of social workers in the specialized institutions under the MOLSP comes to show
that their working pattern also focuses more on the pedagogical (22 percent) and medical
(22 percent) aspects, rather than on social child and family support work.
*  A total of 38 percent of the staff members have received training on working with
children. A total of 48 percent say they have not been to such courses. Sixty-three percent
of the staff under the MOLSP has not attended any training courses on working with
children.
- 101 -



Most of the available professional training focuses on very specific professional issues and
skills. There is no training in skills for working in a team, for working with parents, and
understanding the problems of children, outside the simple cause-and-effect thinking
pattern.
*  49 percent of the staff interviewed state their need for upgrading their professional
qualification. A need for professional qualifications is declared mostly by social workers
(75 percent), psychologists (78 percent) and educators (69 percent).
*  The qualitative analysis shows that the need for training is clearly recognized and
adequately addressed in those institutions, where there is change, a reform process is
underway, and experience in a different practice has been gained, which has helped them
pull childcare out of routine and anonymity. These institutions include: all those under the
MOH, and some under the MES and the MOLSP.
Leaving specialized institutions
In 1999, for 9 percent of the children in the surveyed specialized institutions, the exit from
one proved just an entry into the next institution.
*  This is normally the fate of children with disabilities, whose parents have abandoned them,
and for whom adopters are very difficult to find. Of all institutionalized children with
disabilities, those with mental and autistic disorders have the gloomiest prospects. After
leaving the MSCHC, they are usually placed in one of the institutions for mentally retarded
children under the MOLSP. There are insufficient structures and establishments providing
specialized care to children with such problems.
*  A large number of children from socially disadvantaged families who have been placed in
institutions without the withdrawal of their parents' rights, face a life moving from one
institution to another.
*  Currently, adoption is the only alternative to institutionalized care for many children.
However, there is little recognition for the rights of the children in the process. The
motives of the prospective adopters are not studied thoroughly, there is lack of parental
skills training, and the adaptation of the child to the new family environment is not
monitored.
*  The usual barriers to a child's adoption include: the child's disabilities (79 percent), missing
disclaimer (49 percent), or the whereabouts of the natural parents are unknown (26
percent). For these children the risk, that the exit from one institution opens the doors to
the next, runs highest.
* In the context of the reform in the MES Homes for children aged 3-14, a child may end up
living in the street, if his/her return to the natural farnily is not properly managed.
- 102 -



* Some of the children end up in the street, because of their discontent with life in the
specialized institutions. In 1999, the Institutions for Temporary Stay of Minors and
Juveniles registered 1,386 cases of runaways from different institutions.
Prerequisites for Child Policy Reform
An analysis un the compliance of the current care and support system available to
disadvantaged children and families, and its adequacy, found not only a need for the
system to be reformed, but that there are also a number of prerequisites for a successful
start of such a reform.
* The amendments to the legislation are considered both a major prerequisite, and a declared
Government commitment, for the implementation of the reform. The adoption on May 31,
2000 of the CPA was the most significant signal for change. The CPA is an expression of
the new philosophy in the government child policy, based on the principles of the
Convention and the need to protect the rights of the child.
a  The different ministries involved in childcare are taking various steps for reforming the
policies and practices in this area, and within the scope of their own expertise and
activities.
* In the year 2000, new Rules on the structure and operation of these institutions was
adopted. The new status they are given changes them - from oppressive infirmaries into
amenable homes.
* The MES is implementing a reform in the homes for children deprived of parental care.
New Rules on these homes were adopted in the year 2000. The ambition was to limit the
grounds for institutionalization of children, which has led to a 10 percent reduction of
specialized institutions.
e One of the objectives of the structural reform that the MOLSP is implementing is to take
on the responsibility for child protection through the establishment of CPDs under all
MSAS, and provision at the municipal level of a range of family and child support services.
Some experience has been gained from the establishment of 13 day care centers for
disabled children living with their families.
* The MOJ started a reform in its policy on minors at Reformatory Homes, which finds
expression in the efforts for bringing the policy in compliance with the international
standards on living: improvement in the physical conditions of life; humanization in the
manner staff treat detainees; creation of conditions allowing minors to benefit from their
stay at the Reform School in respect to education, vocational training, and preparation for
leaving the institution.
* By providing training and methodological support to staff, working directly with children,
the NPD under the MOI, which incorporates the Juvenile Crime sector, is making efforts
- 103 -



to perform its police functions with due respect for the rights of the children. The
inspectors from the Child Pedagogical Units and the officers at the Institutions Temporary
Stay of Minors and Juveniles undergo a compulsory initial training, which differs from that
provided to other officers.
- 104 -



Additional
Annex 14
BULGARIA: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
ISSUES OF ETHNICITY
Summary
1. Demographic characteristics
According to the last census in Bulgaria (December 1992), Tables 1 and 2 below give the
ethnic and religious composition of Bulgaria:
Table 1: Bulgaria Ethnic Composition.
Bulgarians                                           7,271,185
Turks                                                 800,052
Roma                                                  313,396
Armenians                                              13,396
Russians                                                17,139
Karakachans                                             5,144
Lochs                                                   5,159
Greeks                                                  4,930
Tartars                                                 4,515
20 other ethnic groups not exceeding 0.02 -
0.01% of the population.
Total                                         8,487,317
Table 2: Bulgaria Religious affiliation.
Eastern Orthodox Christians                              7,247,592
Catholics                                                  53,074
Protestants                                                21,878
Sunni Muslims                                            1,026,758
Shiite Muslims                                             83,537
Others                                                       6,430
Source: Results of the census. Vol.]. Demographic characteristics. Sofia, NSI (National
Statistical Institute), 1994.
Self-identification of ethnicity seriously distorted the real data on the numerical strength of the
ethnic groups in Bulgaria during the 1992 Census. According to estimates made by Bulgarian
academics, the true numbers of the larger minority groups in 2000 were: Roma approximately
- 105 -



725,000; and Turks approximately 650,000.
Poverty: Studies show that Roma families and their children are over-represented amongst
the poorest families in Bulgaria, the largest families in Bulgaria, having a high mortality rate
among women of child bearing age, a higher than average child mortality rate, a high birth
rate. Generally they have very poor housing. The Turkish and Pomak families have a higher
rate of unemployment and poor access to health care and education. They sacrifice a great
deal to improve their housing conditions, but many live in poor residential conditions.
The differences in educational and professional qualifications of the different ethnic groups is
an important deterninant of poverty. The average unemployment rate for the country varies
between 18 percent and 22 percent. Amongst the Roma the unemployment level can reach 80
or even 95 percent. For the Turkish and Pomak population in the Eastern and Western
Rhodopes (the more isolated and mountainous regions) unemployment reaches levels above
55 percent. The poorest families in Bulgaria and thus the most socially and economically
disadvantaged are those families with three or more children. Roma families and Pomak
families are over-represented in this group and, to a lesser extent Turkish families.
Social Assistance: According to the Club Economica 2000 survey, conducted in 1998, on the
monitoring of the EU Emergency Social Assistance Program for Bulgaria, the relative
percentage of Bulgarians who receive social assistance is lower than the percentage for the
population as a whole.
Table 3: Recipients of Social Assistance by Ethnic Origin.
Ethnic group          Population %     Beneficiaries %
Bulgarians                 84.7                 71.3
Turks                      11.2                 10.8
Roma                        3.0                 16.2
Pomaks                      0.2                 0.5
Others                      0.5                 0.5
Source: EU Social Aid Program - 2 Monitoring, 1998.
Education: There is a clear correlation between the number of children and the education of
their parents, with illiterate parents having 2.5 times as many children as those with secondary
education or more.
Table 4: Number of Children by Parental Education Level.
Education of parents                       Number of
children
Secondary education (Grades 8-12) and above       1.8
Elementary education (Grades 4-8)                 2.6
Primary education (Grades 1-3)                    3.3
Illiterate                                        4.4
- 106-



One of the biggest problems ethnic groups face is access to education due to the issues of
costs and language. For some children Bulgarian is not their mother tongue and sometimes is
not spoken at home at all. The children from the ethnic minority groups do not usually go to
nursery schools where they would learn Bulgarian. When they attend primary schools, these
young children sometimes cannot take advantage of the education because they cannot
communicate with the teachers and many of their classmates. They often face hostility from
the teachers and other children. The quality of education in schools in predominantly Roma
areas is even worse than in the rest of the system. Many Roma children drop out from school
because of the overwhelming problems they face. Their parents do not provide support and
their home conditions make it extremely difficult for them to study.
The Roma children are more likely to be sent to the Special Needs Schools for mentally
retarded children or children with impaired hearing, vision or speech, or the Labor Educational
Schools and schools for children with behavioral problems. In general education Roma
children constitute 9.7 percent of the school age population in the special schools they make
up 32.1 percent of the total, in the labor education schools 21.6 percent and schools for
children with behavioral problems 29.0 percent. For the Turkish and Pomak children, their
families make every effort possible to support their children at school and help them to cope
with language or other difficulties. For those children liver in remoter areas, however,
schooling above the eighth grade is available only in the cities and the journey is very difficult.
Table 5: Level of Education by Ethnicity (percentage share of the group).
Education       Bulgarians    Pomaks         Turks        Roma         Others
No education            0.5            -           3.5          5.6         7.7
Primary                 5.0         14.3          11.0        37.0         15.9
Elementary             18.3         23.8          37.6        50.0          7.2
Secondary              43.9         52.3         43.9          7.4         30.7
College                10.4          4.8          2.3            -         23.1
Higher                 21.9          4.8           1.7           -         15.4
Total                  100           100          100          100         100
Source: NSI. Bulgarian Academy of Science, Institute of Sociology, 2 000
Juvenile Delinquency: In 1999, the Children's Pedagogic Office reported registered
offenders; 5 ,000 of them were minors - younger than 14 years (and therefore not criminally
liable under Bulgarian Law), the rest were adolescents aged 14 through 17. By ethnic origin,
the number of delinquents is given in Table 6.
- 107 -



Table 6: Juvenile Delinquency (1999).
Ethnic Group            Number of Juvenile     Rate of Juvenile Delinquency (per
Delinquents        100,000 youths)
Bulgarians                    16,106                          222
Roma                           8,222                         2,624
Turks                           1,471                         184
Others                           150                          146
Total                         25,949                          n/a
Source: NPD and NSI
The level of crime has increased in Bulgaria between 1993 and 1997. For juvenile crime (age
group between 14 and 17) the increase is 34.7 percent. For juveniles the crimes include a
large proportion of crimes against persons - murder, rape, assault and battery and, also theft.
Roma young people are over represented in this group, whilst Turkish and Pomak young
people are under-represented.
Street Children: In relation to street children, a more recent phenomenon in Bulgaria, the
number of Roma children is by far the highest. In 1997, 90 percent of the street children were
estimated to be Roma. Of these children 73 percent are said to have two parents. The reasons
for these Roma children to be on the streets were related to poverty because of unemployment
and parental violence. Street children of the other ethnic groups normally are orphans or have
only one parent.
2. NGO Programs
In relation to the Turkish and Pomak minorities, the specific benefits from projects are:
*  during the last two years a priority need of the children from the minority groups was
to feed them once a day, using a school network and the functioning kindergartens;
*  the program to equip some schools with computers provides the possibility for children
to see what a computer is and to learn "informatics" under real conditions.
*  the stipend programs are quite frequently the only chance for gifted children from
extremely poor families to continue their secondary, and later higher education;
*  the setting up of own regional NGOs of the minority groups provides a possibility for
the people on site to organize extra-curriculum activities for their children, to offer
them access to information, so that they can learn the necessary skills and be useful to
their community;
*  economic and infra-structural projects, though sporadic, help the families get
self-organized and cooperate, in order to ensure the support of their children;
*  folklore and cultural events, which are organized on municipal or regional levels, and
often on a national level with the assistance of NGOs, provide a possibility to the
different ethnic and religious communities to get to know each other, to compete
among themselves, to break away from their encapsulation and conservatism;
- 108 -



*  the projects targeted at street children aid their physical survival; they prevent them, to
some extent, from becoming delinquents and from street violence; these projects help
their socialization.
A variety of NGO programs have been targeted to ethnic minorities. The successes and
failures are sumnmarized below:
Successes: Successes are relatively limited.
*  the organization and work ethics of NGOs - staff are flexible not bound by rigid job
descriptions which leads to creativity;
*  the ability to pay more buys NGOs the best experts;
*  one of the more successful projects is the IMIR project "Let's bring the children back
to school" which needs to cover an eight year period to track children from the first to
the eighth grade;
*  NGO officials work without prejudice and build up trust between them and the
members of the minority groups;
*  NGOs have simplified administrative systems and a low level of bureaucracy. They are
more flexible and able to respond more quickly to problems;
*  corruption in NGOs is relatively lower; and
*  NGOs maintain informal and good communications with international organizations
and private donors which makes their activities more effective.
Failures: The most serious failure in those programs for the Turkish and Pomak communities
in that they are fragmented, failing to address problems systematically
•  short-term donors are usually prepared to fund only pilot projects and are rarely willing
to fund longer-term projects which would provide a comprehensive approach;
*  lack of funds - the project of the Minorities Health Problems Foundation could have a
much larger impact if funding was available to provide other modules and over a wider
area. This project has suffered from lack of funds;
*  the lack of a comprehensive database of children's problems and needs which would be
available to both governmental and NGO sources;
*  difficulties with communications between NGOs and state institutions;
*  insufficiently developed financial control systems within the NGO sector (smaller
NGOs often do not have staff employed to carry out the financial aspects of their
work.); and
*  competition between NGOs for funding which leads to further fragmentation of
activities.
3. Prevention of child abandonment in the Roma community
The different problem dimensions require different solutions, flexible program, with possibilities
for adaptation to the specifics of the community and to environment modifications. Intervention
should be directed at the social sphere and education, where the major reasons for negative events
are generated e.g. marginalization of families, children abandonment, underestimation or
- 109-



negligence of the contemporary needs of their growth and development. The analysis of the
specifics of the Roma community indicate that variant subgroups with specific problems and
possible solutions are differentiated in the community, i.e. differentiation of various target
subgroups in the common target group - the children from the community. Hence the requirement
of clear differentiation of approaches and planned intervention towards each of them.
The target programs for Roma community children should be adapted to respective age and group
characteristics - they should definitely consider the circumstance that due to immature, early
marriages the age standards for children age belonging are different from the standards of the
majority and more to it they differ even from group to group in the community.
The confinement and isolation of the community predetermines the difficult access of institutions
and the state to the Roma community and makes the centralized problem solutions "from top - to
bottom", without the target group involvement, practically impossible or ineffective, and it also
requires the incorporation of representatives of the community itself to the development and
running of the respective programs. In the first place these are Roma civil organizations.
An evaluation of the existing programs of NGO, related to ensuring of opportunities for
development and prevention of children abandonment by Roma community, has been made in this
report. In most of the cases these programs follow different directions - social policy, education
employment.
Extensive centralized programs, worked out and imposed from the "top" for local execution,
following a uniform standardized model and schedule. Such are the programs "School for
Everybody", run by the MES, in which new structures are created centrally "at the top" -
centers for work with children; the mass Humanitarian program for school catering of "Open
Society", utilizing existing institutions - schools, civil organizations etc. for local operation.
Extensive global coordinated programs, worked out under a common model but with local
coordination of activities. They are run by local institutions - schools, school boards, which
take part in the particularization of the activities. This flexibility calls for good results
dependent on the level of involvement of local partners and the target group in the preliminary
planning process. The outcome of the 6 year project "Let's Take Children Back to School" of
the international center on the problems of minorities and multi-cultural interrelations; the
project "Involvement of Roma assistant-teachers in the Bulgarian education system" of the
Inter-ethnic Initiative for Human Rights; the project "Partnership between Parents and
School" of CRS - Catholic Relief Services; project "Schools for mentally disabled children
(supplementary schools). Of the foundation "Step by Step".
Local programs worked out and run by local civil organizations, adjusted to local conditions,
flexible and adaptable planned intervention to the environment modifications. Intermediate
type of programs are the partnership ones, developed in collaboration with local and central
organizations, inclusive or parallel action lines (as the project for local change of the
foundation SECA). The programs of Roma Bureau Sofia, Foundation for Regional
Development Roma - Plovdiv, foundation Roma - Lom, project " Assistant teachers in the
- 110-



Preparatory Classes" of Coalition Stolepinovo and other projects of local organizations.
The analysis of objectives, strategy and major activities results, achievements and failures,
strengths and weaknesses, of the implemented programs by civil organizations proved that
positive results and effect of intervention program addressed at the Roma children, could be
attained under the following conditions:
* The intervention program should involve not only children but also the Roma community.
Hence part of the target group are parents of Roma children.
* It is essential to incorporate local civil organizations , initiative groups and leaders in the
operation in living quarters, schools and kindergartens.
* Differentiated approach to different groups and subgroups of the Roma community,
consistent with the specifics of their problems, needs and potentials.
* A significant prerequisite for the consistency of the intervention program is training of
people from the respective quarters, to work with the children and their families. The
training should be in compliance with the specifics of the community. The selection of
such people is of vital importance. It is necessary to observe the inner rules of the
community i.e. such people should come from respected families of excellent reputation.
* Food supply to schools with a high percentage of children vulnerable to risks is effective
only when accompanied by education programs and intervention in community.
e Effective program monitoring could be done only if community representatives are
involved.
On the grounds of this evaluation, a detailed proposal for a pilot intervention program has been
suggested:
e Establishment of local community centers for development of children through target
programs combined with integrated influence on the community environment, to work
under the above-mentioned integrated model.
* Recruiting a maximum number of children in the kindergartens through payment of fees
under the condition that children will be to educated in Bulgarian language as preparation
for schooling.
* Compulsory preparatory classes for children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian, with
assistant teachers to be introduced in these classes to enhance the learning process. This
requires an amendment to the Law on Public Education so that the municipalities will be
bound to open preparatory classes and parents will also be obliged to send their children
to school.
* Application of sanctions to parents who do not let their children attend school.
*  Integrated programs - focused on education, but also involving employment, social
assistance and self-help home upgrading.
* Training of social workers and police from the community to work with children and
parents aiming at keeping children in school and motivation for better education and
reducing crime.
- 111 -



4. Conclusions
The following are the main needs of children from ethnic minority groups:
*  a solution to the problems of children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian -
preschool language and cultural preparation for admission and adaptation to primary
education in the Bulgarian system;
*  access to equal education be improving the material and technical basis of schools in
which children from the minorities are predominantly admitted, and by specific
qualification of the teachers (for all groups);
*  access to information which will help the children continue their education and acquire
computer literacy, participate in extra-curriculum activities and apply for a job and
have better prospects for career development (for all groups);
*  access to information and specialized consultations for health and sex education (for all
groups);
*  access to the Internet and to modem communications means for contact within the
country and the world (particularly for children from the mountain and remote
villages);
*  special care for street children;
*  programs for re-adaptation and re-socialization of juvenile delinquents, and particularly
of those released from jail (mainly Roma); and
*  restricting the admission of normal and healthy children to "auxiliary schools" and
advising them how to apply for general education schools (mainly Roma).
-112-



Additional
Annex 15
BULGARIA: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
MUNICIPALITY SELECTION
A rigorous selection process was applied for identifying the municipalities where the CWR
project will start in the year 2001. The process included two stages: (i) initial ranking by
objective criteria and (ii) needs assessment field visits.
Objective Criteria Ranking: The municipalities were first ranked according to developed
objective criteria, to which a weighting factor (K) was attributed:
*  number of children in the municipality;
*  percentage of children in the municipality;
* number of institutionalized children in the municipality;
*  percentage of Roma population;
*  population;
e  level of unemployment (percentage); and
*  percentage of Turkish population.
The weighting factor K is used to rank the municipalities, taking into consideration the relative
importance of the criteria. The weight for each criteria was divided by the number of the place
the municipality occupies, according to this criteria, to receive the weighting factor. The final
rankcing of the municipalities is based on the sum of all K factor numbers for each municipality.
The sum of all weighting numbers is 100. Special consideration was given to the criteria,
related to children (a total of 35), percentage of Roma population (28) and municipality size
(25).
Field Visits: Field visits were carried in the ten short-listed municipalities - Plovdiv, Varna,
Sliven, Stara Zagora, Targovishte, Pazardjik, Burgas, Russe, Shumen and Vratsa, by two
CWR project teams.
Structured interviews were held in each municipality with representatives of municipal
administration (mayor, deputy mayor, municipal council chair person), heads of the MSAS,
Regional Social Assistance Services, NGO representatives.
The following additional indicators were applied to specify and assess the needs in each
municipality:
*  Municipality's commitment to develop alternative services for children and families and
readiness to support the CWR (funding activities, provision of premises, etc.).
* Available good practices and experience in developing alternative services for children
and families. Existence of working NGOs.
*  Interaction and cooperation between the various units of local administration and local
governanace. Cooperation between the local authorities and the NGOs.
- 113-



* Assessment of local needs in respect to CWR.
* Views and expectations from the CWR reform in the municipality.
* Budget and economic prospects of the municipality.
CRITERIA FOR PILOT MUNICIPALITIES
_                    _       _               _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Institut.   - Ethnica _Unemplo_
Populationl      Children       Children       Children        I Turks     Roma        yment %
_  Municipality    (25)    K      It10)    K      D/ (5)    K    (20) _K    % (2)  K  % (28   K          O10)    K   Total K    Raink
I Blagoevgrad       80094|  1.5    1708 |  0.6|    21.33| 0.61       390   1.1   0.12  0.t  1.62|  1.3   17.51   0.d    5.751         23
4 V. Tarnovo        90106l   1 .1    1 6379   0.6    1 8.1 8  0.2    634   2' 5.7S0277    7.1   20.76   0.61  1 2.90                  1 1
5 Vidin             81669   1.6    16264   0.6|    19.91  0.3        333|1.    0.26   .       .     4.1   27.16   2.1   10.16         16
nGabrovo           79420   1.4    127461  0.4       16.051 0.2      30210.    1.78  0.    .1 1.11   11.231  0.4    4.52              2
_  Dobrich          1001 36   2.3    22728   1.1    22.70  17         622   2.2   9.01  0.3  3.i 2.'   22.61   0.9   10.80             15
_  Kardjali     1    76701   1 .3     1 8303   0.7    23.86  5.(      277   0.8  54.34  2.0   1 .53   1.    1 5.31   0.4   1 1.51  =   1 2
1 rKjustendil    1   724M5   1.31    138651  0.5'     1 9.13  0.2     494   1.'   0. 10  0.11 5. 17   4.(    1 6.03   0. '    8.06     20
1 lLovech       1    63257   I .1    1167A   0.~   1 8.45  0.2        312   1.(   6.66  O.2  1.46   1 .,   20.89   0.7    4.80         25
121Montana           62910   1.11   1289A   0.4       20.501 0.4   1   193   0.8   0.09  0.1  5.921  3.11  27.      2.5    8.43        19
1 Pleven          149005   4.2   30188   1.A          20.261 0.41     53 11.81  3.37  0.   2.161  2.A   21.761  0.    10.82            14
17 Razgrad         6827       11 135          0.51    21.57  0.,      46    1,41 27.47  1.0  2.771 1_    29.91   5.(   11.061          13
-1 Silistra         6706       .   150        0.' _    20.13  0.      4321  1.21 U4001  .A  0.83   1.21 v23.87,  1.0(   5.68    2
21 Smolyan      0--T5          .     98        .x    2lA42  O.,       678    .92      0.761 0.11 0.381 i_   28.4     .     9              1
24 daskovo   ~1 00 1 241  21    2 109f   0.'9     1.0            550  2.0[ 1 7.41 0.51  3.131  2.1 _1 6.91    0.1    8.491         18
26 Yambol           8 77711   71    1 977i 0          22.531 1. 1     46,   1.31  4.431 0.21 2.191  1.5   23.93  .11    7.581=    21
- 1 14 -



Additional
Annex 16
BULGARIA: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY ASSESSMENT
Initial project management and administrative arrangements
The project's overall financial management system (FMS) will be centralized within the PMU
established within the MOLSP. All PMU consultants positions agreed are now filled. Renewed
assurance was obtained that PMU consultants will dedicate all their working time to the Project.
The PMU consultants relevant to the financial management functions (director, finance manager,
accountant and procurement specialist) will have to increase their experience by becoming familiar
with the Bank's financial management, disbursement and procurement requirements.
The PMU will operate under the supervision of the Bulgarian Deputy Minister in MOLSP and the
PSC. The PMU will be responsible for keeping the accounting records of the project, in charge of
all payments, operating both the Special Account and the Project Account (Bulgarian
Government contribution), preparing bidding documents, verifying and authorizing contracts,
monitoring and evaluation, reporting both to the Bank and to the Bulgarian Government, planning
and budgeting, disbursement and auditing.
Issues and recommendations
At the moment, the PMU is located in a fully equipped room, but relatively small in size. As the
PMU activity will increase, there is the need for additional rooms (which are now being made
available within MOLSP) and additional filing space (including cabinets,etc).
Financial and accounting initial arrangements
The PMU will be in charge of all payments, operating the financial management software of the
Project, handling both the Special Account and the Project Account, preparing the project's
financial statements, reporting to the Bank and the Bulgarian Government, etc.
A financial manager employed by the PMU will be responsible for the overall financial,
consolidation, reporting, auditing and all other financial management aspects of the project. The
financial manager will report to the PMU manager. The accountant in the PMU will be
responsible for all accounting matters of the project. The accountant will handle all financial
accounting documents, ensure that accounting records are kept up to date within the financial
management software system to be installed, liaise with the accounting department of the MOLSP
and with the beneficiaries, to ensure that all project transactions are recorded in the consolidated
project's financial statements for both Bank requirements and Bulgarian statutory reporting
purposes.
-1 15 -



Issues and recommendations
A procedures manual has to be developed by the financial management consultant to be
appointed, documenting various types of financial transactions, the flow of documents between
the PMU and the beneficiaries, responsibilities.
Flow of Funds
As the PMU is the unit overall responsible with the financial management aspects of the Project,
all the accounting, payments, disbursement and reporting functions will be centralized. The Loan
funds will be channeled from the Bank to the Special Account, while the Bulgarian Government
co-financing will be received in a separate Project Account (sub-account existing within the
MOLSP accounting framework), as described later in the report. The PMU will also be
responsible for handling additional sources of financing whenever possible (to be agreed on a
case-by-case basis when all the Grant agreements with other development partners will be signed).
Issues and recommendations
The signing procedures are now being finalized. It was agreed that at least for the operation of
the Special Account (SA), some PMU staff (finance manager and project manager, together)
should have full signature rights, in order to ensure an uninterrupted flow of the Loan funds.
However, in respect of operating the Project Account, local budgetary requirements may impose
the need of an additional signature by a high official of MOLSP (Deputy Minister) or someone
else designated.
In addition, to ensure that the local co-financing for the Project is available, the PMU will have to
prepare and deliver in time the required financial statements and budgets for the Bulgarian
Government contribution. These documents will have to be submitted by a certain date, before
the beginning of the fiscal year to the accounting department of MOLSP, in order to be as a
separate 'line' in the consolidated annual budget of MOLSP.
Accounting and the FMS
The accounting software system for the project has been designed, customized, documented and
implemented, by a suitable accounting software and financial management firm. The FMS
established for the CWR Project is a stand alone system (completely separated) and able to use
IAS, to consolidate all beneficiaries at the PMU level and to respond to the Bulgarian
Government statutory requirements.
The FMS has a customized chart of accounts (to respond to the project components and
specifics) and is able to produce usual reports such as: trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet,
income and expenditure statement by sources of funds, cash flow, general joumal, suppliers'
ledger, various budgets, etc. All PMRs will be produced by the system. The accounting system
will account separately for each financing source (Bank, Bulgarian Government contribution and
- 116-



other development partners as applicable) and by project sub-components.
A detailed manual of accounting procedures relevant to the project will be prepared by the FMS
consultants with the support of the PMU staff. All accounting entries will be kept in the loan
currency as well as in the Bulgarian currency, leva and in both English and Bulgarian language.
External audit
The project must be audited by a reputable audit firm acceptable to the Bank. As the project will
most likely not have any disbursements until the middle of year 2001, the auditors will be
appointed from year 2001 onwards and the first audit will cover the period ended December 31,
2001.
Issues and recommendations
The selection of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank is to be completed by March 31,
2001, prior to loan effectiveness.
Cash handling procedures
The PMU manager noted that the project will have to deal with some payments in cash (mainly
for items such as materials, office supplies, fuel, travel advances, some local consultant fees, etc).
Issues and recommendations
Assurance was given that the cash payments will be limited as much as possible (by asking all
PMU staff and consultants to open bank accounts, make as many payments as possible by bank
transfers rather than cash) and that the PMU will have its own safe.
A limit of BGN2,000 will be imposed as the maximum cash amount to be handled at once and a
lower limit imposed for any single cash payment. The petty cash balance at the end of the day
should be at low as possible (not above BGN 100), with the surplus deposited at the bank. Cash
handling procedures will be detailed in the above mentioned manual of financial, accounting,
control and administrative procedures.
Special and project accounts
During discussions it was agreed that the special account is to be opened by the PMU with the
Bulgarian National Bank prior to loan effectiveness. The PMU will use an additional, separate
project account for the Bulgarian Government contribution. This project account will be used
only for the amounts allocated by the Bulgarian Government to the project and will be separated
from the main (general) budgetary account of the MOLSP.
Signing procedures are to be put in place allowing two persons from the PMU, the PMU manager
and financial manager to jointly sign when operating the above accounts. A third person, such as
- 117-



the MOLSP Deputy Minister, may be also given signature rights.
Conclusions
The financial management arrangements of the project are adequate and satisfy the Bank financial
management requirement and the certificate FM LACI Annex 4-B has been issued. It was agreed
that initially the project will use the traditional disbursement procedures. Subject to achieving a
complete and fully satisfactory financial management system (and issuance of the LACI Annex
4-A FM certification), the Borrower will have the possibility to request the transition to
PMR-based disbursements after the year 2001.
- 118-



IBRD 31199
22'                             23'                              24'                              25                              26'                              27                               28                                29'
1.>,.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO0M AN I A
44'                        .        -.t;;;2di,       a                                                                                                      sih4A'-"'p 
KCoo1o                                                                                                       ct        - \'SJLISTOA(L
*~~~~~                                                                          C~C- i
B. g,.d        L ikKocinf d.                                                                                                                                                               -'-T,-
a  -~opo Mitropol1p                                           I'~                  D                                                K--,a"'
FED.  RER. OF                                                            K-h.' * ~ g,0o9             PBEN                                                  -       vn'         '0                                            
YUGOSLAVIA                                          v                                      ansun. ~ELO\504s                                                                         v    0Poe                           Blht
(SERB./MONT.)                            tkNn4%               *V<      -d,        ren  ¶,            ,msstSl    TRN-
C  Moodro'   '4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~khi, loon,o  N
ZTatn$Fooegn0                      Vet~~~~~~~~~~~k Ij-o    0 poy-~vtoWt'01
430    0               t\/"   '.' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~           ~     ~     e0,eooO  ~~~~~~~f'-~~~~                ,      -n        f                              '            (                                               43'~~~~~~OIU   A
-43- ~     ~        ~         "~olt0                                              LV4   -                                 Jooq¼~                                                                         1r  roh0
I  CASR~~~~~~~~~~k                                         -~~~~~ ~~~~-' -'      Oyk-
0                                           ~~~~~~~~0       Gbno-* Ž                                                                                     r\-
Gohr0Rlro                                                                                '5 b                              '        '        ~ oArs290,t
PERJK                     on4P SQFA'          3sropKKIso          ielodokK;rru                      ,)x.:o'0 io%6lssr
,n,~~  ~ RsdorT.'  ~ -  ~ ,. /  64ioior   ""j~~-g~o Ptaobo no
,~~,  ogp~rtshto  0Kh'                                  e'I.  Sombinl          .4
PhUo-'k                                                                                                                                      0%OO
~~~L ~~~~~ ~~~~  (.0
Ky  "~  rk3smtro               (s'  AZ~!HK   ? so  gnt co                                                 /                                  ot  O~           /  Pnmorko                To orp on nodoe byth
poon  K                                                                                                      YA3~~~~~IBOL   o~~~~P  not       /                          Mop Design Unit oh rho World Bank.~~~~~~~~~~0  --
I.                                                                                                                                                                 2   ~ Mihurin               T,obooodriescalaa,denooioo,ian
OTE  Kihdkl~ba1                      U-.                                                                  ('wtyormtoahwa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bktpladryte
PLOVDIV.Y                                                                                   o¾do  a d  o ipyentepoto
NM  '2 -'           -     ~       eo                            0       so~r   "~3t  4tS.rJEoiTonoo                                                                           -            Th War Boo GAopA  07HJKgn,an o-
A,                        JoordAS.,                                                             ""'"~~~~~~~              ooyendarenoooranoooeprarEoaof ',i~hu
TE aDog                                                                                                                                                                            T  Muh.b-vdarie-    29',
~~Ie    >~~~   DoRr1hnnro07>  A          V  A                   ,"tSolongrao         ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ \6 AIkIp.]               - 2y(hTURKEY        A.
/'                              "'  'S~~~~~P~                                                                                                     THR--UGH THE. RAN  SCAN
~~ Pno.ok,~%>/                                               c~%~ngrok
U C"  /0)                                      RI, PHASE P001CC~- INTRVNTON
22"  2                                                                         N.           "'"'~~~~                      a'                                          0       SF15 CWR NTSEVENTIONS~~~Om
§oLb4i'hlol~~~~~~~-                       iiAiSKIovo-,                                 27    TURKEY                       t..~~~~~~~~~~U 561 60CRIN9I'NTN
N  ROMONIA  -                                                                                                                                          41'                            0       SRIRCSRLS C SIRS AND TOWNS~PI'   's-Y., 
G__]                                                            KAR Z14ALI~~~~~~~~__         4
Hook ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  Seta                                               "              '"                           ,o\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 0       SISTR~~~~,.  CT CRNJCTINEVRTIN
®   DIBSTRCR CNTERS
K-                                                                                                                                                                                                             (9       OBLZ CENFR
41, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~r®NATIONAL CAPITAL
VERD. REP. OP                                                                                     T
'PUOOSJRIIA'  I                                                                                                                                                                           cC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  PORTS
ISERRO/MONT '    BULGARIA                                                                                                                                                                                ----e--  MUN C PASITY BOUNDARIRS
0*             ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAegean    Soo- -                                                                                                                      RRGIONAL ROJNDARIES
Solo  '~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      ""~~~~~~""""                                       -          NIERNATIONAI ROjNDAR-ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - INENAIOALBUNARE
T U R K E Y                                                                                                                                  0~~,~    26      4C       60      EQ       105
GREECE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~425 'C-oC                                                                                                                                                        K L£METERS
JANUJARY 2001



