                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No. 29650-PE




               SIMPLIFIEDIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                 ON A LOAN TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                      FOR THE

                    PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN I11

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$lSO.O MILLION

                                     LN 72000-PE


                                 DECEMBER 20,2004




Human Development Department
Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                          GOVERNMENTFISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 - December 31

                            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange rate effective 12/20/2004)
                               Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
                                      US ldollar = 3.26

                       ACRONYMS AND ABBR VIATIONS
AFP      Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones           Administrator of Pensions Funds
CIAS     Cornisidn Interministerial de Asuntos Sociales  Inter-Ministerial Social Policy Commission

CLAS     Cornunidades Locales de Adrninistracidn de
         Salud                                           Community Managed Health Facilities

ENAHO    Encuesta Nacional de Hogares                    National Household Survey

ESSALUD  Seguro Social de Salud                          Health Social Security Institute (formerly known
                                                         as IPSS)
FONCODES Fondo Nacional de Cornpensacidn y Desarrollo
         Social                                          Social Investment and Compensation Fund

INEI     Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informdtica National Statistics Institute
MEF      Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas               Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIMDES   Ministerio de la Mujer y de Desarrollo          Ministry of Women and Development Affairs
MINSA    Ministerio de Salud                             Ministry of Health
PCM      Presidencia de Consejo de Ministros             Prime Minister's Office
PRONAA   Program Nacional de Asistencia Alirnentaria     National Food Assistance Program
PSP      Programs Sociales Priorizados                   Priority Social Programs
SIS      4eguro Integral de Salud                        Integral Health Insurance
SNP      TisternaNacional de Pensiones                   National Pensions System
SPP      %sterna Privado de Pensiones                    Private Pensions Svstem



                            Vice President: David De Ferranti
                         Country Director: Marcel0 Giugale
                           Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada
                       Task Team Leader: Rafael Rofman




                                             ..
                                             11

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                              Page No.
1.Program Data                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                    1
3. Program Description                                              2
4. Achievements of Objectives and Outputs                           3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome               7
6. Bank and Borrower Performance                                    8
7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations              9
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators for PSRL I11                    12
Annex 2: Implementation Completion Report on the Programmatic       19
Social Reform Loan I11(from Government)




                                    ...
                                    111

                           SimplifiedImplementationCompletion Report
                             For ProgrammaticAdjustment Operations

 rprijiect ID: Po78951                                  IProject Name: Programmatic Social Reform Loan    I
                                                          111
  Team Leader: Rafael Rofman                              TL Unit:Human Development Department
  ZCR Type: Simplified ICR                               Report Date: December 20,2004




                     Name: Programmatic Social Reform Loan I11              U C Number: 72000-PE         -
                                                                                 Region: LAC
  Country/Department:          Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela
                               CMU, LCSHD
          Sector/subsector: Human Development, Social Protection, Health, General Education
                    Theme: Social Risk Mitigation, Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring, Social risk
                             1 reduction, Public expenditure, financial management and procurement




                                                                     Original            Revised/Actual
            PCD/PR:                                     Effective:   11/19/2003          11/19/2003
           Appraisal: 09/29/2003                           MTR:      Not applicable      Not applicable
           Approval:     11111/2003                      Closing:    1213112004          1213112004

          Borrower/Implementing Agency:        Republic of PerulMinistry of Economy and Finance
                           Other Partners:   I1


  STAFF                           Current                    At Appraisal
  Vice President:            David de Ferranti             David de Ferranti
  Country Director:          Marcelo Giugale               Marcelo Giugale
  Sector Manager:            Evangeline Javier             Evangeline Javier
 Team Leader at ICR:         Rafael Rofman                 Daniel Cotlear
 ICR Principal Author:      Fred Levy

2. Principal PerformanceRatings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory,S=Satisfactory,U=Unsatisfactory,HL=Highly Likely,L=Likely,UN=Unlikely,HUN=Highly
Unlikely,HU=Highly Unsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial,M=Modest,N=Negligible)

                                          Outcome: S

                                     Sustainability:L

                 Institutional Development Impact: SU

                                Bank Performance: S

                           Borrower Performance: S

                                                        QAG (if available)    ICR
                    Quality at Entry:                                         S
       Project at Risk at Any Time:                     No



                                                    1

 3. Program Description

 3.a. Overall Program

 The program supported by the PSRL loans was initiated in 2001 by the Transition
 Government that followed the resignation of President Fujimori in November 2000. The
 first loan, PSRL I, was approved by the Board in June 2001. The program was
 subsequently endorsed by and has been continued under the Government of President
 Toledo, which took office in July 2002. PSRL I1was approved by the Board in September
 2002 and followed by PSRL I11 in October 2003. A fourth and final loan was approved by
 the Board in December 2004.

 The main goals of the program are to (i) improve the antipoverty focus of public
 expenditures; (ii) increase access of the poor to quality health and education services; and
 (iii) enhance the transparency of social programs, while empowering their beneficiaries in
 their design and implementation. The programmatic loan will achieve these objectives by
 supporting efforts to complete and consolidate reforms in five areas: (i) social expenditures
 management, (ii) redesign, targeting, and administration of social protection programs, (iii)
 access to health services, (iv) access and efficiency in education, and (v) transparency and
 accountability in the social sectors.

The achievement of advances in these broad areas has been pursued via a large number of
specific actions and public agencies. Many of these components have been part of the
program since its beginning, progressively broadening or deepening in scope. At' the same
time, consistent with the concept of programmatic loans, the program has evolved in
several respects over time. PSRL I emphasized transparency and budgetary protection of
key social programs at a critical time. PSRL II was prepared during the first year of the
Toledo Administration and supported the design and launch of longer term reforms in anti-
poverty programs and social reforms. Finally, PSRL 111focused on consolidating existing
reforms and, within the context of decentralization in the social sectors, creating the
necessary fiscal space and legal and institutional framework for a smooth transition
towards the new model.

3.b. The Current Operation

By PSRL 111,increasing attention was being given to the design of mechanisms needed to
ensure the achievement and sustainability of program objectives in the context of rapidly
advancing governmental decentralization. Greater attention was also given to reform of the
procurement system and to anti-corruption measures, reflecting in part the greater priority
given by the Bank worldwide to these issues.

As the program has evolved, several components have also been de-emphasized or
postponed, reflecting, variously, substantial progress in the completion of tasks (e.g., the
introduction of multi-annual macroeconomic framework), support available from other
donors (e.g., continued extension of the financial control system), the need to adjust
objectives to a changing context, particularly decentralization (e.g., the consolidation and



                                             2

 targeting of nutrition programs), or tactical retreat in the face of intransigent political or
 bureaucratic obstacles to rapid implementation (e.g., the coordination of health sector
 expenditures by MINSA and ESSALUD).

 The Bank's Commitment to the program has also changed. At the outset, the documentation
 for PSRL I looked ahead to a second and to perhaps a third programmatic loan. In the
 event, the present ICR assesses progress made under PSRL 111, and a fourth operation has
 been prepared and approved by the Board in December 2004,' reflecting the continuing
 commitment of the Bank to the reform program. Even though it is not expected to continue
 the programmatic series beyond the fourth phase, some elements of the PSRL program are
 now proposed to be incorporated in a new programmatic loan series in support of
 decentralization.

 4. Achievement of Objectivesand Outputs

 The outcome rating given to this operation is "Satisfactory", as most expected actions were
completed and the program showed a steady advance in the social sectors reform process.
A detailed description of achievements and the present status of program components are
described in Annex 1. In the summary discussion that follows, program objectives are
grouped as outlined above.

4a. Improving the antipovertyfocus of public expenditures

Social issues have aroused passionate debate and rhetoric in Peru in past decades, and the
Fujimori Government, particularly in its first term, introduced major programs to integrate
long-marginalized groups and communities into the national economy. However, the
formulation of a coherent social policy, with particular attention to social protection and
anti-poverty objectives, has for the first time under PSRL become a central element of
political discussion among Peruvians and of the Bank's dialogue with Peru. The PSRL
program has helped to shape and sustain this focus through two Governments and several
changes of Cabinet.

The Government has effectively institutionalized the preparation, vetting and formal
adoption of a multi-annual macroeconomic framework, setting out objectives within the
bounds of projected available resources, with regular monitoring and reporting on progress.
With the support of PSRL 111, a social policy chapter is being added to it in 2004, explicitly
linking expenditures and outcomes as a prelude to fuller integration of the social dimension
into the framework in coming years.

An important objective of the PSRL agenda from the outset has been to shift public
expenditures over time in the direction of pro-poor programs, while protecting. kev anti-
poverty expenditures from budget cuts or serious expenditure reductions in the face of




  1Following a decision to raise Peru to the high-case lending level, the loan amount for PSRL I11 was also
  increased from US$lOO million to US$150 million.


                                                     3

 short-term macroeconomic constraints.2The program has been successful in meeting global
 allocation targets for three designated "social functions"-education and culture, health and
 sanitation, and social assistance-, while achieving specific expenditure targets for six
 specific "protected social programs" (PSPs) has been more problematic. Budget execution
 for the PSPs reached the expected 95%, but reallocations among the PSPs were larger than
 originally expected.

 PSRL I11continued contributing to the targeting of the Government's emergency workfare
 programs both in rural and urban areas. As the peak of the economic crisis passed, the
 government began to reduce the programs. A Trabajar RuraZ is shifting resources to the
 administrative jurisdiction of local governments, and A Trabajar Urbano is also changing
 its principal focus from emergency make-work to more developmental small infrastructure
projects in collaboration with local authorities, while maintaining a capacity to provide
immediate income, employment, and infrastructure reconstruction support in emergency
 situations.

Substantial progress has been made under the PSRL program to improve the targeting of
social expenditures toward districts with the highest concentrations of families in the first
and second income de~iles.~This effort has enjoyed broad political support, although
particular interest groups have resisted consequent reallocations of resources from their
own programs. Targeting and efforts to improve overall efficiency have been effective
under PSRL I11 in improving the allocation of infrastructure investments, the emergency
employment programs, and those food distribution programs whose administration has
been effectively consolidated under the Ministry of Women and Development (MIMDES).

Pension reform was added to the agenda, in recognition that Peru's costly pension system,
despite many efforts at reform over the past decade, still provides basic coverage to only a
small minority of the p~pulation.~The Bank's work in this regard was strongly
underpinned by new ESW carried out in 2003.5 Under PSRL 111, a decree was issued
establishing for the first time, a clear locus and responsibility (in the MEF) for the
formulation of pension reform strategy and the actions needed to implement it. A series of
laws and decrees in 2003 have aimed at developing reliable data on the beneficiaries and
actuarial balances of the expensive and inequitable Cbdula Viva (CV) pension system for
public workers, while reducing somewhat its heavy fiscal costs and inequities. More
importantly, the Government has submitted a constitutional amendment to Congress that
would, inter alia, definitively mandate the closing of the CV to new entrants and eliminate



    Loan conditions intended to protect anti-poverty social expenditures were first introduced in the Bank's
  Second Financial Sector Loan in 1999.
    At the initiation of the PSRL program, targeting depended heavily on information from the outdated 1993
  national census, and it was expected that a new census would be carried out by 2003. Budget for the
  census has never been allocated, but steadily improving information has been available from annual
  national household surveys (ENAHO).
  4 Earlier Bank support for pension reform (Pension Reform Adjustment Loan, 1995;and Second Financial
  Sector Loan, 1999)had focused principally on reducing the fiscal costs of the public pension programs and
  'onPeru:
      encouraging and rationalizing the growth of the private pension program.
          Restoring the Multiple Pillars of Old Age Income Security, Report No. 27618-PE, January 26, 2004.


                                                     4

 the indexing of CV pensiom6 At the same time, the Government has mounted a concerted
 public information campaign in support of the amendment, including a detailed analysis
 published on the MEF website. Passage is far from assured, but this represents the strongest
 Executive effort so far to confront a problem that is both fiscally unsustainable and makes
 virtually impossible the needed raising and rationalization of public sector salaries.

 Meanwhile, the Private Pension System (SPP) continues to be high-cost, while remaining
 highly profitable to its administrators (AFPs). Supervisory regulations issued in 2003 with
 PSRL I11support have resulted in reduced insurance premiums for affiliates, and additional
 regulations are pending to encourage greater competition, but the Government is not yet
 convinced of the need to attack the APFs' oligopolistic pricing more directly.

 4b. Improving access of thepoor to quality health and education services

 Improving the access of the poor to government social programs is strongly related to other
 program objectives, particularly improving the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures.
 Advances in the health sector have been faster and steadier than in education, but this
 sector also have some improvements to report.

 Coverage of the Integrated Health Insurance program (SIS), which ensures a package of
maternal and infant health services through primary health clinics in rural areas, expanded
in 2002 and 2003, largely exceeding the goals set in PSRL 11. The program's rapid
expansion threatened the pro-poor and rural focus, as coverage went beyond the poor and
included benefits and services for the urban middle class. Strong intervention by the Bank
helped to limit resource diversion, and the 2004 Budget Law includes a clear separation of
the funding for expenditures targeted by the program.

The expansion of locally co-managed primary rural health centers (CLAS) was an explicit
objective of PSRL I and II. They expanded rapidly through 2002 and are generally
considered to be successful in improving services to poor rural clients. Progress slowed in
2003, however, reportedly because of opposing views within MINSA. They were not
included in the PSRL I11 matrix but continue to be supported through the Bank's Health
Sector APL.

The rationalization of health investments, through better coordination between MINSA and
ESSALUD, and administrative reform of the latter, was a major objective of PSRL I and 11.
This effort was largely frustrated, however, by political and bureaucratic resistance and by
managerial instability in ESSALUD. In 2003 Congress approved a law granting ESSALUD
autonomy from central control, and the objective was dropped from the PSRL I11 agenda.
Meanwhile, the long-standing problem of duplicative hospital investments has been
managed in the short term by tight control over new investments by MEF.

Reforms in the Education sector under PSRL I11 has focused principally on the reform of
the human resources system, to provide positive incentives for teaching performance and to

   Previous efforts to close the CV and eliminate its indexing provision were declared unconstitutional by
  the courts or subverted by the highly decentralized and non-transparent quality of its administration.


                                                     5

 eliminate the misuse and inequities that infect the system. As under PSRL I and 11,
 particular attention has been given to the improvement of incentives for teaching in the
 rural areas. In the face of strong resistance from the national teachers' union, progress has
 been positive but slow. The progressive adoption of a unified payroll system is reducing
 inefficiencies and inequities, and a laborious process of cross-checking payrolls against
 approved positions has begun to root out payments to "phantom" teachers as well as
 salaries above the scale for the position occupied. The introduction of automatic electronic
 salary transfers is also helping to eliminate human error and manipulation.

 After a failed effort under PSRL 11, a more carefully designed and implemented pilot
 program to test a range of incentives to improve teaching in rural areas was carried out in
 the second half of 2003. The incentives were reinforced by a renewed effort to establish
 strong local school councils with parental participation to monitor teacher performance.
 An impact evaluation of the rural pilot is now in process and is expected to provide
 valuable lessons for expansion of the program.

 4c. Enhancement of the transparency of social programs, while empowering beneficiaries
 in the design and implementation of programs

 The PSRL program generally would have benefited from an earlier strong emphasis on
rigorous monitoring and evaluation of social expenditures, but it has taken some time to
convince line ministries and agencies of the importance of M&E and to develop the
necessary indicators, baseline data, and method~logies.~M&E are now receiving increased
attention by both MEF and the line ministries, spurred in part by the accelerating
decentralization of program responsibilities to local government. The strengthening of
M&E systems is a central focus of PSRL IV.

Achieving greater transparency and popular participation in government policy-making,
monitoring implementation, and holding officials accountable has been a constant theme
throughout the PSRL program. It is not an exaggeration, as stated in the PSRL I11Program
Document, that now "Peru has one of the most advanced legislative structures for citizen
participation in public policy and budgeting processes...in all of Latin America.'' It will
take time, however, before this framework translates into an active reality. Although
NGOs, academics, and other activists are increasingly taking advantage of opportunities to
use the participatory structures being created and to demand accountability from public
officials, the effective participation of the poor in the design and monitoring of social
programs remains limited.

Hardware and software systems have been developed and steadily expanded and made
more user-friendly, making increasingly detailed and timely information on social
programs accessible to the public and enabling feedback on public perceptions about
transparency and corruption. Although this explosion of information is welcomed and
increasingly used by academics, professionals, national and local government officials, and
civil society organizations, system managers acknowledge that greater efforts are needed to

  'A  few agencies, such as FONCODES, had introduced systematic M&E several years earlier with
  assistance from the Bank and IDB.


                                                6

 provide technical assistance in the use of the system and analysis of the data, particularly to
 the lower economic groups.

 As a benchmark trigger for PSRL 111, a citizen report card has been developed and
 introduced on a pilot basis to evaluate the performance of five selected social programs.
 PSRL I11 also supported efforts to insulate the National Statistical Institute (INEI) from
 political interference that has characterized it in the past. Although INEI appears to enjoy
 substantial independence under its current management, measures to institutionalize this
 protection have not yet been agreed.

Finally, PSRL I1 and I11 effectively supported the institution of a more transparent and
efficient public procurement system, and proposed revised regulations for PRONAA food
purchases are currently under discussion in Congress. The enactment of the latter
improvements is a benchmark trigger for PSRL IV. A continuing problem for food
programs, however, is a 2002 law that severely restricts competition for food purchases by
state agencies and continues an historical focus of these programs on providing price
support for local producers.8

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementationand Outcomes

It has been recognized from the beginning of the PSRL program that progress in some of
its major components would face strong political and bureaucratic resistance. It is not
surprising, then, that advances have not been constant and similar in all sectors, as some
areas have been less open to reform than others. Measures to retarget and improve the
efficiency of rural infrastructure programs, the emergency employment programs, and the
food programs administered by MIMDES, as well as the work to improve the budget
process have advanced well. The redesign of health services through the introduction of
CLAS and SIS has been very successful, but other efforts to achieve better coordination
between MINSA and ESSALUD have not progressed as expected. Pension and teacher
salary reforms have moved forward, albeit slower than expected in the face of opposition.

The most significant factor emerging in 2003 affecting the design and implementation of
the program has been the acceleration of decentralization in some areas. Although a
potentially positive development, the rapid progress of decentralization threatens the gains
made in the rationalization of expenditures, including anti-poverty targeting, and makes
especially urgent the fortification of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems and the
introduction of proper incentives and financial controls over resource use. Laws have been
prepared, and management performance agreements are being introduced to establish close
monitoring and control over the use by sub-national governments of transferred resources.

Another factor affecting program implementation has been the frequent turnover of Cabinet
Ministers that has characterized Peruvian Governments over most of the past decade.
Particularly unstable has been the leadership in the education and health ministries, where
changes of ministers forced MEF officials and Bank team members to renew efforts to
build partnerships to achieve PSRL objectives. While some changes in implementation and

  * Lawof the National Complementary Program of Food Assistance (No. 27767), effective June 27, 2002.


                                                7

 timing of reforms have been unavoidable, strong commitment of MEF and solid design of
 the program have allowed the continuation of progress in spite of changes in authorities.

 Finally, attention is necessarily drawn to the political environment, as the Government has
 lost popular support and political pressures have been important. However, scattered
 pressure to abandon reforms and increase spending has been resisted with sound
 macroeconomic management, and high rank politicians from opposition parties have
 indicated their interest to support the basic components of the reform program in the future,
 providing a more solid basis for advances.

 6. Bank and BorrowerPerformance

 Bank Performance:Satisfactory.The Bank has consistently assigned a strong team to the
 program, with several staff from the previous operations continuing to work on PSRL III.
There has also been close contacts between the Bank's local office staff and Government
teams. The Bank team has also continued to be backed by high quality ESW, including a
 study of the pension system undertaken during 2003. Appropriate use was made of the
PSAL instrument's flexibility and adaptability to lessons and changing conditions from one
operation to the next. As with the earlier PSRL operations, PSRL 111was well integrated
with the overall country assistance strategy and benefited in several sectors from parallel
investment loans and technical assistance grants. Good coordination was also maintained
with other official lenders, especially at the field office level.

Borrower Performance: Satisfactory The MEF continued to play a strong central
coordinating role as the Bank's principal counterpart agency for the loan. As under the
previous PSRL operations, this effort was complicated by the large number of specific
objectives and conditions, the consequently large number of line agencies ultimately
responsible for implementing many of the reforms, and the frequent changes of line
ministers and their technical teams. However, the MEF team managed to coordinate the
different sectors, and delivered on commitments. In some areas, commitment to reform
appeared to be coming from MEF rather than from the sector agencies themselves, whose
rotating leaderships have not always fully shared the objectives being pursued and have not
received clear guidance in this respect from the top levels of Government.

In some respects, the pace of implementation of some components of PSRL I11has suffered
from a long delay in the preparation and negotiation of the Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL) originally foreseen to support PSRL II.9 This delay appears to have derived from
ambivalence and shifting concepts on both sides regarding the scope and specific content of
the assistance, lack of a shared sense of its priority, and disagreements within both the GOP
and Bank about the locus of responsibility for its management. The relevant issue here has
not been the availability of financial resources-availablePPF funds were not fully spent-
but rather timely agreement and delivery of the support needed, particularly for the
development of M&E.




   TAL was finally approved in July 2004.


                                               8

 InstitutionalDevelopment Impact: Substantial The Institutional Development Impact of
 PSRL can be considered as substantial, both in regard to the third loan being reviewed and
to the whole programmatic operation. PSRL I11provided critical support in several areas to
build institutional capacity and improve effectiveness in the use of resources. At MEF, the
development of medium term budgeting strategies resulted in an institutiunal strengthening
of the Budget Direction, and the assignment of responsibilities over pension policy to the
DGAES at MEF promoted the organization of a specialized team to work on designing a
strategy and collecting and disseminating statistical information. Other areas, such as
Health and MIMDES received substantial support in designing a strategy to deal with
decentralized agencies, through the implementation of results agreements, and a complete
overhaul of the Human Resources system at MEC began under the support of PSRL.

Sustainability: Likely Although the implementation of reforms may be exposed to some
risks in the medium term, advances achieved under PSRL I11 are likely to be sustained.
Most reforms have wide support as they imply stronger and more stable institutions to
provide social services, in Health, Education, and Social Protection. Changes in authorities
in the different ministries have not had a significant impact in the medium term consistency
of goals and programs, although in some cases resulted in delays in the implementation
process. While political support for the current administration has declined, the support for
many reforms, including those aiming to increase access to health and education and
improve transparency and participation is widespread, including government officials and
also civil society groups and representatives from political parties in the opposition.


7. Findingsand Implicationsfor Subsequent Operation(s)in Series

A number of lessons can be drawn from the present experience:

1. In addition to the "mechanical" aspects of institution-building-new hardware and
software systems, modernization of skills, reorganization of work flow--reforms involving
the realignment of public expenditures as well as increasing the transparency of and
broadening participation in government decision-making and implementation require
profound changes in ingrained social attitudes and threaten, or are perceived to threaten,
entrenched interests.

         a. It is not realistic to expect a program of such reforms to be completed and
             fully implemented in a period of less than five years. Advances have been
             important and can be expected to be sustained, but the final outcome of the
             program cannot be fully assessed in the short term.

         b. By the same token, progress among the components of a multi-faceted reform
             program such as the PSRL is bound to be uneven, and it is likely that some
             objectives would not be completed during the life of the program. However,
             advances have been important and sustainable in most sectors. Program
             success should be assessed on the basis of momentum achieved, and with




                                             9

               clear priorities among the objectives, rather than on a checklist of discrete
               targets attained at a point in time.

           c. The success of the reform program depends heavily on the effectiveness of
               Government leadership in building a supportive national consensus.           A
               consensus-building strategy should be an integral element of the
               Government's reform strategy.

 2. The PSIU has proved itself a very effective instrument for maintaining a constructive
 dialogue and pressure to move forward on a coherent and focused policy agenda that has
 bridged two Governments and several changes of Cabinet. It has also allowed staff
 flexibility to respond to new initiatives, to adapt to changing political realities+.g.,
 decentralization-to develop and refine targets and performance indicators, and to initiate
 and incorporate the results of pilot reform experiments.

 3. By bringing the MEF into a central role in the negotiation of the social agenda and
 responsibility for its implementation, the PSRLs have also effectively engaged the
 influence and commitment of the state budget to push the reforms forward and to provide
 the necessary resources. At the same time, however, it is necessary to avoid the possibility
 of focusing too much on MEF while weakening contact with operating realities (capacities,
incentives, etc.) in the line ministries responsible for implementation as well as with the
priorities and level of commitment of the respective ministers.

4. Social reforms are inevitably experimental, and strong monitoring and evaluation
systems are essential to drawing the lessons of pilot efforts, to refining instruments, and to
guiding the adjustment of policies and programs over time. While M&E development was
supported from the beginning of the program, many delays in design and implementation
of monitoring tools have limited the possibility to assess the evolution of programs.

5. Institution-building efforts pursued through adjustment lending were recognized to
require intensive technical assistance to facilitate the "mechanical" aspects of the reforms
as well as to bring perceptible benefits to the line agencies expected to implement them.
The delays in preparing the Technical Assistance Loan have slowed the advance in some of
the ministries, although the approval of the loan in July 2004 should correct this. In the
future, consideration should be given to requiring that the respective commitments be
negotiated and undertaken in parallel.

6. Finally, in the face of strong political pressures to transfer resources to regional
government programs and to raise salaries, the inclusion of the PSPs in PSRL
conditionality may have succeeded in preventing some erosion of the funding available for
the selected programs, as well as in encouraging their closer monitoring and evaluation.
Nevertheless, including the targeted spending levels among the benchmark triggers for
PSRL I1 and 111appears to have been premature. Not all of the programs had benefited
from impact studies justifying the priority accorded to them. Moreover, it has become
clear that the targeted spending levels for some of the programs, particularly in education,
significantly exceeded the implementing capacity of the responsible line ministries and



                                               10

misread or greatly overestimated the latter's commitment to the program's success. An
additional problem in 2003 was the ill-considered linking of some PSP expenditures to
receipts from privatization, an inherently unreliable source of funding.




                                            11

                             Annex 1: Key Performance Indicatorsfor PSRL 111'




I. IMPROVING THE ANTI-POVERTYY FOCUS OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
A. A Pro-poor Reorientatioi of Government Spending
Public expenditure needs to   Some 98 percent of the global budget for the three designated priority social functions
be appropriately allocated to (education and culture, health and sanitation, and social assistance) was executed in 2002,
Peru's social priorities      exceeding the targets agreed as benchmark triggers for PSRL 111,and the budgeted amounts
                              for 2003 were greater than 2002 actual expenditures in real terms. Preliminary data
                              suggests that actual expenditures on the three functions also increased in 2003 and rose
                              from about 5.4 to 5.7 percent of GDP.

 B. Protected Social Progra :(PSPs)
Pro-cyclical spending         Actual real expenditures for the six PSPs in 2002 exceeded the agreed budgeted level in
pattern does not ensure       real terms, thus meeting a benchmark trigger for PSRL 111,while increasing slightly as a
minimum financing             percentage of total budget expenditures and maintaining their share of GDP. However, as
requirements of the PSPs in   under PSRL 11,there were significant shortfalls from the targeted levels for each of the
support of the GOP Social     three PSPs in the education sector, thus violating an initial trigger condition for PSRL 111.
Protection Strategy.          While the total amount initially budgeted for PSPs in 2003 met the target, the amounts
                              budgeted for four of the six programs were less than agreed and below the previous year's
                             budget. Moreover, it became clear that the authorities would not be able to stay within the
                              30-percent ceiling on reallocations among the PSPs.

                             As compensation for these shortfalls, the authorities agreed with the Bank to take four
                             additional measures, the first of which was the approval of a supplementary allocation to
                             raise the 2003 budget for five of the six PSPs to at least their 2002 levels in real terms.
                             Second, it was agreed that aggregate actual expenditures for the PSPs in 2003 would reach
                             at least 85 percent of the budgeted amount. Third, reallocations among the PSPs would not
                             exceed 30 percent of their initial allocations. Finally, an article was added to the 2004
                             Budget Law explicitly prohibiting any diversion of resources from the PSPs to fund
                             payroll, benefits or any programs other than the PSPs.

                             In the event, actual total expenditures on the six programs in 2003 fell slightly below the
                             minimum target, reaching only 83 percent of the budgeted amounts, as shown in the
                             following table (in millions of soles):




                             Significant shortfalls were again suffered by investments in primary and secondary
                             education and in collective health expenditures, but substantial improvement was achieved


                                                         12

                                implementation, particularly in primary and secondary education, compliance with the
                                PSP targets was disrupted by the uncertainties and administrative changes occasioned by
                                the process of decentralization; heavy spending pressures in general, and the virtual
                                paralyzation of the privatization program, whose revenues had been earmarked to finance
                                those components of the PSPs executed by sub-national governments.

1
   C, Targeting Workfare Pro
  Lack of a counter-cyclical   The Programa de Emergencia Social Productivo (PESP)--popularly known as A Trabajar
  social protection program    -wasinitiatedin2002withseparatelymanagedurban andruralprograms. Bothprograms
  such as an employment        operated through 2003. .Agreed measures were taken to ensure effective targeting to the
  (workfare) program.          lowest-income quintiles among urban and rural districts, respectively, and the agreed
                               quantitative targets in this regard were met. A study on the effects of the wage rate paid by
                               the A Trabajar Rural in 2002 was carried out and confirmed their consistency with the
                               desired targeting. The recommended wage policy was thus continued in 2003, thereby
                               meeting a benchmark condition for PSRL 111. Targets intended to minimize administrative
                               costs relative to the incomes earned by unskilled workers under the programs were also
                               met.

                              A Trabajar Rural, managed by FONCODES, ceased new operations at the end of 2003
                              with the transfer of resources to the local governments. The central government seeks to
                              maintain strong influence over the anti-poverty targeting and productive use of the
                              resources via management agreements with the local authorities and the application of
                              objective criteria for effecting the resource transfers and monitoring their use. Technical
                              assistance resources are being sought to strengthen local administrations not yet able
                              negotiate and implement such agreements.

                              A Trabajar Urbano, managed by the Ministry of Labor, has also shifted relative focus from
                              emergency employment to building productive infrastructure as the basis for private
                              investment and the creation of permanent jobs. Future projects are to flow from local
                              development plans, formulated through participatory processes. The Ministry expects to
                              retain a small team ready to respond to emergency situations-e.g., natural disasters-
                              requiring employment and income support and the repair of damaged infrastructure.

  D. Reforming Food Progra F
 Food programs are to be      The effective consolidation of food distribution programs has continued within the
 decentralized, but they lack Ministry of Women and Development (MIMDES), although slowed by bureaucratic
 clear objectives; monitoring resistance. Improvements have been made in targeting, efficiency and impact as well as in
 and evaluation are weak;     dietary content. Agreed goals for redirecting food distribution programs in favor of low-
 and targeting and            income districts were exceeded during the second half of 2002 and first semester of 2003,
 transparency need further    and the 2004 Budget Law allocates food aid (excluding the Comedores Populares
 strengthening.               program) to municipalities according to criteria of poverty and under-nutrition.

                              With the decentralization of administrative responsibility accelerating, attention has turned
                              to establishing the mechanisms and criteria for transferring resources to local governments.
                              A proposed Law on ProgrammaticTransfers was submitted to Congress in 2003,
                              establishing rules for the decentralization of food distribution programs, creating a
                              specialized fund under MIMDES for allocating and monitoring the transfers in accordance
                              with explicit performance agreements with the municipalities, and prohibiting the diversion
                              of these resources to other purposes. Implementation of the allocation formula was a
                              trigger for PSRL IV."'

                              Food procurement is increasingly being carried out through the Commodity Exchange
                              (Bolsade Productores) with improved bidding and contracting procedures. As
                              responsibility is transferred to local authorities, efforts will be required to build the latters'
                              procurement supervision capacities.


                                                        13

                              Two recent studies, including an impact evaluation of the Vusode Leche program, were
                              completed and disseminated during 2003. The studies concluded that the program, which
                              accounts for around 40 percent of total food aid expenditures, has little nutritional impact
                              and broadly fails to reach its intended beneficiaries. The highly decentralized program
                              continues to receive strong political support from local governments and interest groups,
                              however, and little change has thus far been achieved. Under the proposed Law on
                              Programmatic Transfers described above, Vusode Leche resources would be incorporated
                              into the larger fund created for administering social protection transfers.

                              Reform of the Comedores Populures program has also proved difficult, in part because of
                              the high level of support it receives from international NGOs and bilateral assistance
                              agencies, each with it own mandate and criteria.

                              The Ministry of Health has included the provision of iron supplements under the SIS
                              benefit plan for pregnant women and children below two years of age.

                              As a trigger condition for PSRL 111,a pilot program of cash transfers in lieu of food was to
                              have been carried out in five districts and evaluated for possible replication. Although the
                             pilot has been designed and formally approved, strong skepticism within the Government
                              about the efficacy of cash transfer programs generally makes it unlikely that such a
                             program will be introduced in the foreseeable future. Failure to comply with this trigger
                             condition was deemed to have been compensated by over-performance in the achievement
                             of other food program objectives.

 E. Reforming Pensions
No single institution has a  A MEF Ministerial Resolution issued in July 2003'" assigned responsibility to its
clear mandate to analyze,    Department of Economic and Social Affairs for strategic planning of the old-age income
formulate, and coordinate    security systems; collecting, analyzing, and publishing the relevant institutional and
pension policy.              statistical information; and drafting legislation necessary to implementation of the strategy.
                             Preparation of the strategy is currently in process, and its publication setting out policies,
                             an action program and schedule for expanding the coverage and efficiency of the system,
                             and initiation of its implementation, were defined as benchmark triggers for an.eventua1
                             PSRL IV.

                             A Decree issued in February 2003 requires all agencies paying benefits under the CV to
High-cost, publicly-         present actuarial balances and other basic data to the ONP. Laws (Nos. 28046 and 28047)
subsidized pension           were approved by Congress in July 2003 increasing the contribution rate of active workers
programs benefit a           newly affiliated to the CV from 6 to 13percent and setting out a schedule for further
privileged minority of the   increases to reach 27 percent by 2009; creating a new contribution of beneficiaries of the
population, while the        CV earning more than 43,600 soles per year at rates similar to those of the income tax; and
majority population remains  putting a 3,100 soles per month ceiling on benefits that can be paid to new entrants. In
without basic social         April 2004, the Government submitted to Congress a draft constitutional amendment that
insurance coverage.          would mandate the closing of the CV to any new entrants, centralize control over its
                             administration, eliminate the indexing of CV pensions to the wages of active workers,
Incomplete and fragmented    make possible the modification of benefits of current affiliates when required for the
data, decentralized          general economic and social good, and empower the administration to eliminate pensions
administration with weak     obtained by illegal means.' The amendment would also establish fiscal sustainability as a
controls, and the extremely  primary criterion for any future changes in public pension systems or the introduction of
generous conditions of the   any new pension system. A detailed analysis of the public pension system and its
Ckdulu Viva (CV) program     implications, inter uliu, for social equity, fiscal stability and public sector reform has been
xeate serious inequities and oosted on the MEF website.
fiscal pressures.
                             Some progress has been made in cleaning up the SNP rolls and improving collections, but
                             :hese efforts continue to meet resistance from Congressmen who oppose efforts to
                             mcourage workers to shift to the private system. Still pending in Congress is legislation


                                                       14

                               agreed at the time of PSRL I1to mandate the publication of cash-flow and actuarial
                               projections for the SNP, of the projected impacts of any proposed changes to any of the
                               systems, and of the actuarial reserves of public institutions.


High costs and lack of         The private pension fund administrators (AFPs) have realized significant cost reductions in
competition limit expansion    the last two years, but these economies have not been passed on to affiliates in the form of
of coverage under the          lower premiums. The SBS issued regulations in June 2003 eliminating the requirement
private SPP system.            that beneficiaries of survivor or disability benefits under the SPP obtain an annuity from
                              the same company that provided the basic insurance. As a result, SPP insurance premiums
                              fell from an average of 1.23percent to 0.92 percent of affiliates' salaries between June and
                              November 2003. SBS is also preparing regulations to increase the system's transparency
                              and promote competition by introducing an electronic quoting system and simplifying the
                              process of switching between AFPs.
11. IMPROVING ACCESS 0QUALITY HEALTH AND EDUCATION SERVICES
 A. Improving Access of th, 'oortoHealth Services
Despite expanded provision    During 2002, the SIS had surpassed by a substantial margin the infant and maternal
of health services, a         coverage goals set out as benchmark triggers for PSRL 111. Coverage continued to expand
significant proportion of the rapidly in 2003, but the program's focus on infant and maternal health care at the primary
poor population remains       and secondary levels, with particular emphasis on rural areas, was threatened by the
without access to basic       addition of new benefits and eligible services to the SIS program. As a consequence, SIS
health services.              expenditures on first and second-level health care facilities fell short of agreed amounts as
                              a proportion of total expenditures. To protect this focus in the future, the 2004 Budget Law
                              includes a clear separation of the targeted primary and secondary health care expenditures,
                              and annual performance agreements between SIS and MEF have been instituted.

                              Locally co-managed primary health centers (CLAS) now account for roughly 35 percent of
                              primary health establishments and serve more than 8 million clients, mostly in poor, rural
                              areas. Expansion slowed during 2003, however, reflecting in part competing philosophies
                              and frequent turnover of high-level staff in the Ministry of Health.

                              Management agreements are now in effect between the MINSA and all 34 Regional Health
                              Departments (DISAs). These agreements have become progressively more comprehensive
                              and results-oriented, and their close monitoring is reportedly resulting in closer policy
                              aIignment and timelier decision-making.

                              Efforts to reform the administration of ESSALUD and to achieve greater coordination and
                              efficiency of health sector investments through collaborative arrangements among
                              competing agencies, particularly MINSA and ESSALUD, have continued to be frustrated
                              by political and bureaucratic resistance as well as by managerial instability within
                              ESSALUD. To complicate matters further, the Congress approved a law in June 2003
                              granting ESSALUD autonomy from central control. These reform efforts were effectively
                              dropped from the program under PSRL 111. Meanwhile, new public investments in the
                              health sector have continued to be closely controlled by MEF.

9. Improving Quality Acces    o Education
nefficient human resources    The Unified Payroll System is now functioning in 19 of Peru's 24 Departments, and is
#ystemcharacterized by a      :xpected to be operating nationwide by July. The file-by-file cross-checking of teacher
ack of controls in amounts    Jositions against payrolls in, so far, 7 or 8 large municipalities is enabling the cleaning up
)aid through the payroll      3f "phantom" teachers and overpayments for positions occupied. In addition, a pilot
ystem and of an effective     -ationalizationprogram in Lima has resulted in the reassignment of contract teachers to
inkage between an             ither locations in accordance with needs.
ndividual's position level
.nd hisiher salary.           To reinforce efforts to eliminate unlawful payments, automatic electronic salary payments
                              hrough the SIAF system have been initiated in 14 Departments and is expected to be
                              :xtended to 19 Departments within the next two months.


                                                        15

Lack of incentives              The pilot program initiated in 2002 under PSRL I1for introducing special incentive
motivating teachers to          schemes for rural teachers met the benchmark triggers agreed for PSRL 111but was deemed
improve performance or to       inadequately designed and evaluated. The effort was re-launched in 2003 with the
take on hardship positions      participation of some 1,200teachers, and greater attention has been given to the
(particularly in rural areas).  strengthening of local school councils to, among other things, monitor teacher attendance."
                                An evaluation of the impact of the incentives on teacher performance is currently being
                                prepared by GRADE, a private consulting firm, and a study to measure student
                                performance is scheduled to start in May. However, the Ministerial Resolution required to
                                launch the 2004 pilot program still awaits the Minister's signature.

                                A study was also launched during 2003 that is expected to inform the design of a
                                nationwide reform of the teacher pay structure to include Performance incentives based on
                                regular evaluation. The introduction of such a system had earlier been set out as a
                                benchmark trigger for PSRL 111,but strong teacher resistance, including a nationwide strike
                                in May 2003, proved this expectation overly optimistic and showed that lengthy and
                                difficult negotiations would be required.

                                                                                                            4
                                Similarly, efforts initiated under PSRL TI to develop a new definition of the teaching career
                                have largely come to a halt and await the drafting of a new general education law.

                                A system for registering citizen complaints in the education sector has been implemented.
                                The system is on line in Lima and is also functioning via a toll-free telephone line at the
                                national level. Use of the line has increased as a consequence of a nationwide promotion
                                :ampaign but is still attracting only about 1,500calls per month, mostly from Lima.

111. ENHANCED GOVERI LNCE:IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND PARTICIPATION OF THE POOR
4. Enhanced Monitoring afi Evaluation of Social Programs with Social Participation
Persistence of "culture of     Three laws were passed in 2003 greatly strengthening the legal framework for transparency
secrecy".                      and citizen participation. The Decentralization Framework Law, along with new laws for
                               regional and municipal governments, created regional and local coordination councils to
rnconsistent application of    participate in and monitor executive and legislative actions. The Framework Law on
irogram norms, over-           Participatory Budgeting""establishes a participatory process for the elaboration of sub-
:harging for public services,  national budgets, and the process was launched in nine Departments during 2003.
ack of public awareness of     Participatory budgeting is to be in place nationwide in 2004. The Transparency and Access
:itizens' rights and           to Information Law and its regulations establish extensive citizen rights to information and
,esponsibilities of public     mechanisms for holding public officials accountable.   viii
#ervants.
                               A module for tracking public perceptions regarding transparency, practices, attitudes and
                               corruption with respect to major social programs was added to the National Household
                               Survey (ENAHO). In addition, a pilot program to apply a citizen report card to evaluate
                               the performance of five selected social programs has been carried out, and the consultant's
                               report was delivered in June 2003. (Launching of the pilot was a benchmark trigger for
                               PSRL 111.) The results of both exercises have been widely disseminated and presented in
                               regional roundtables that brought together government officials, civil society
                               representatives, and the media.

                               The SIAF financial control system was further developed during 2003, with the addition of
                               budget and debt modules, the completion of a data bank including all investment projects,
                               and growing application in the control of payrolls and the direct distribution of public
                               sector paychecks. Some 748 municipalities, or 41 percent of the total, are now
                               incorporated into the system, and work is in progress with the local governments to build
                               xoperty cadastres to expand their tax bases.'"

                               SIAF data on budget, expenditures, and transfers for all government programs are available
                               in the internet. The Mesas de Concertacidn around the country, as well as civil society


                                                         16

                                       organizations principally in Lima, have been major users of the system. System managers,
                                       however, recognize the need for a greater effort publicizing the availability of information
                                       and providing technical assistance in the use of the system and analysis of the data.

                                       The MEF now publishes on its website detailed monthly data on all government budgeted
                                       and actual expenditures, down to the departmental level, and for three programs
                                       (PRONAA, SIS, and A Trubujur Urbuno)an explicit linkage is made between expenditures
                                       and physical goals along with information on program objectives, services offered, and
                                       eligibility criteria. MEF also regularly publishes macroeconomic projections, the strategic
                                       plans of central government agencies, transfers to regional and local governments, the
                                       execution of public investment projects, internal and external debt, and semi-annual reports
                                       on progress towards the benchmarks set out in its Multi-annual Macroeconomic
                                       Framework.

                                       Alternative approaches to insulating the National Statistical Institute (INEI) from political
                                       interference are still under consideration. A Bank Technical Assistance Loan, currently
                                       under preparation, is expected to support the strengthening of INEI's technical capacity to
                                       play a key role in the implementation of a new monitoring and evaluation system.
                                       Meanwhile, the undertaking of a new national census continues to be delayed. (The last
                                       :ensus in Peru was carried out in 1993.)

B. More Transparent and E              cient Procurement and Greater GovernmentAbility to Fight Corruption
[mprovingtransparency and              [n2003, the Contruloriu de la Repu'blica (CGR) and CONSUCODE issued mandatory
:fficiency in procurement              iversight and supervision regulations for procurement by all government agencies. An
irocedures, and                        nter-institutional convenio between the two agencies has established a regular interchange
itrengthening the                      if information and coordination in the emission of norms to avoid past contradictions.
Zovernment's capacity for
ighting corruption.                    I n e-procurement website has successfully been launched through CONSUCODE's portal,
                                       ind, by end-June 2003, some 660 agencies were participating. Although only a small
                                       xoportion of total purchases legally require transacting through the website, data on all
                                       itate procurement are now being published. With greater transparency, complaints and
                                       ormal proceedings against the system have fallen from 15percent to less than one percent
                                       )fawards.

                                       tevised regulations for the bidding of PRONAA contracts are currently under discussion in
                                       wo Congressional committees. In the past, PRONAA contracts were bid according to
                                       iorms specific to the agency and under its own supervision, a process open to corruption.
                                       'he new regulations would set new bidding norms, make the process more transparent, and
                                       ubject it to supervision by CONSUCODE. Competition continues to be constrained,
                                       lowever, by a 2002 law that requires that public agencies buy food directly from producers
                                       n the zone where distribution is to be made, that producers be represented on the
                                       lrocurement committee, and that prices not be lower than local production costs.'




     i  Refers only to progress towards the objectives set out under PSRL 111. Achievements under the earlier loans in the series are
     reviewed in their respective project documents and ICRs.

     'I'The ordering of issues follows that of the Policy Matrix for PSRL 111, presented as Table 7 of the Program Document. A cell on
     macroeconomic management has been added.
     111The proposed Law would also govern transfers to local governments for other programs of social protection, family assistance, and
     community investments currently administered by MIMDES, as well as basic infrastructure programs managed by other ministries.
     The TAL currently under preparation is expected to provide support for the design and negotiation of the performance agreements, the
     implementation of the corresponding monitoring system, and the inclusion of the agreements and their results in the Consulta
    Amigable website.

    Iv' RM 326-2003-EF/15, issued on July 11,2003
        Numerous previous efforts to effectively close the CV and eliminate its indexing provision were declared unconstitutional by the
    Supreme Constitutional Tribunal or subverted by highly decentralized and non-transparent nature of its administration.




                                                                   17

"'Technical assistance forthiseffort is beingprovidedby DFID.
vii,Law No. 28056 of August 7,2003. Regulations were issued by Supreme Decree DS 171-2003 on November 25,2003.
viiiLaw No. 27826 (as amended by Law No. 27927) and Supreme Decree No. 072-2003-PCM, published in El Peruano on April 24,
2003 and August 7,2003, respectively.

lX. The SIAF has received substantial financial assistance from the CAF and IDB. The World Bank TAL is expected to provide further
assistance to the installation of the system at the local level.
'. Law No. 27767 of June 27,2002




                                                                18

           Annex 2: INFORME DE CIERRE DE LAS OPERACIONESDEL
   PRESTAMOPROGRAMATICODE REFORMASOCIAL (PrkstamoNo. PE-P078951)
                      (Programmatic Social Reform Loan I11 -PSRL 111)

I.    Introducci6n

      Durante el aiio 2003, el Banco Munlal otorg6 a1Gobiemo Peruano el Prkstamo
      Programitico de Reforma Social I11 (PSRL III), por un monto de US$ljO d o n e s . Hay
      que seiialar que el monto del prkstamo origmal h e de US$ 100d o n e s pero Cste se
      increment6 gracias a1cumphento del Gobiemo de 10s requisitos del "High Case"
      indicados en el "CountryAssistance Strategy" (CAS). Dicho prkstamo permitiri apoyar la
      estabhdad de las cuentas fiscales y de balanza de pagos, y alcanzar las metas previstas en el
      Marco Macroecon6micoMultianual.

      El PSRL I11 tiene por objeuvo condnuar con el programa de reformas en el irea social
      emprenldo en las dos operaciones anterioresa finde consolidar la protecci6n de 10s
      programas sociales y mejorar su eficiencia,garantizar el acceso de la poblaci6n pobre a 10s
      servicios de salud, educacibn,entre otros, y fortalecerla vigdancia socialde lchos
      programas.En este sentido,es importante destacar que estos tipos de prkstamo, ademis de
      ser una fbente de recursos de libre disponibhdad, sirven para impulsaruna sene de reformas
      en el imbito social,las cuales reflejan una orientaci6n unitaria y han demostrado ser
      sostenibles en el tiempo.

      En este contexto, el prkstamo ha permitido lograr un ordenamiento y mejor lsposicibn de
      10s recursos publicos, contribuyendo a la mejora de 10s servicios sociales,y sentando las
      bases para que la gesti6n publica en el campo social se realice a travks de sistemasmis
      eficientes y de mayor controly transparencia.


11.   El Context0 Macroecon6mico

     El desempeiio de la economia peruana de 10s hltimos tres aiios ha sido bueno. Los
     principales indicadores econ6micos han venido fluctuando dentro de 10s rangos esperados, e
     incluso han superado sus niveles hst6ricos. Por otro lado, un conjunto de grandes proyectos
     de inversi6n de reciente implementaci6n - entre 10s que destaca el Proyecto de Gas de
     Camisea - o que estin por ejecutarse - como el Proyecto Miner0 Las Bambas o la Segunda
     Etapa del Proyecto de Camisea -,garantizan un piso minim0 de crecimiento en 10s pr6ximos
     aiios, ahn cuando las conlciones internacionalespuedan modificarse.

     En la actualidad, estin dadas las conlciones objetivas para un increment0 sostenido de la
     producci6n que permita ir resolviendo 10s graves problemas de empleo y pobreza que
     enfrenta la sociedad. El reto del actual Gobiemo consiste en implementar, oportunamente,
     las meldas adecuadas para aprovechar a1 miximo la presencia de esta confluencia de
     conlciones favorables. De esta manera, el Estado Peruano se encuentra comprometido a
     realizar una gestibn econbmica eficiente que continue garantizando la estabhdad
     macroecon6mica y que, a1 mismo tiempo, impulse un conjunto de reformas que permitan
     mantener el crecimientoecon6mico para 10s pr6ximos aiios.

     La perspectiva intemacional actual es muy favorable debido a determinadas meldas que el
     Gobierno ha reahado o tiene previstas llevar a cabo:




                                                19

      1. Sector Fiscal

           El Gobierno mantendri su compromiso de resguardar la sostenibihdad de las finanzas
           phblicas, bisicamente a travks de la reducci6n sostenida del dkficit fiscal, acorde con la
           Ley de Responsablltdad y Transparencia Fiscal (LRTF), asi como de preservar la
           eficiencia y la racionalidad del gasto phblico. Para ello, se requiere s e w con la
           implementacicin de una sene de reformas, entre ellas, las mis importantes son:
           .
               Reforma Tributaria: Basada en la elevacibn progresiva de la presi6n tributaria. El
               Gobierno esti tomando las acciones necesarias para lograr la e h a c i b n de las
           .   exoneraciones y tratamientos preferenciales.

               Reforma del Sistema Previsional: La cual requiere del cierre defintivo del r k p e n
               regulado por el Decreto Ley No 20530 - r k p e n de Ckdula Viva- lo que consutuye
               una condici6n crucial para garantizar la sostenibllidad de la politica fiscal. El
               Gobierno ha propuesto una reforma constitucional que permita el cierre permanente
               de dxho r k p e n y la introducci6n inmediata de modlficaciones como la
               centraltzaci6n de la admmistraci6n del sistema, la ehnaci6n de la nivelaci6n entre
               remuneraciones y pensiones, entre las mis importantes.


      2. Sector Monetario

          Se mantiene una politica monetaria de metas explicitas de inflacibn, la cual garantiza que
          la inflaci6n deberi fluctuar alrededor de 2,5 por ciento anual.

          Entre las principales fortalezas de la econom'a peruana se encuentran: (i) la baja
          inflaci6n, la cual ha evolucionado dentro del rango previsto por la autoridad monetaria;
          (3) el alto nivel dei monto de las reservas internacionales netas del Banco Central de
          Reserva del Per6 (BCRP); y (iii) 10s indicadores de la actividad econ6mica como son el
          Product0 Bruto Interno (PBI), el empleo y 10s inlces de cartera pesada, 10s cuales
          muestran que estamos transitando de la fase de estabhzaci6n a1crecimiento econ6mico.



111.  Objetivosdel PrCstamo

     De acuerdo con cifras de 2002, el 54,3% de la poblaci6n es pobre, es deck que no alcanza a
     satisfacer sus necesidades bisicas; rnis ahn, alrededor de uno de cada cuatro peruanos no
     puede acceder a una canasta bisica de alunentos que permita cub& sus minimos
     requerimientos nutricionales. Frente a esta situaci6n, el Gobierno ha declarado la lucha
     contra la pobreza como su prioridad. A1 respecto, existen dos elementos fundamentales para
     superar el context0 actual: asegurar un continuo crecimiento econ6mico y la calidad de la
     politica social.

     En 10s hltimos aiios se ha venido trabajando en una sene de espacios phblico-privados en la
     construcci6n de una agenda social eficiente, equitativa, participativa y transparente. Entre
     estos espacios, se tiene el Acuerdo Nacional, la Carta Social suscrita en el marco de la Mesa
     de Concertaci6n de la Lucha contra la Pobreza y el Plan de Superaci6n de la Pobreza. De
     igual forma, el Gobierno ha asumido una sene de compromisos en la Carta de Politica Social
     para el period0 2003-2006.




                                             20

A1 respecto, la estrategia del Gobiemo involucra: (i) la mejora del acceso a servicios bisicos
de calidad (salud, educacibn, nutrition), (ii) el increment0 de las oportunidades econ6micas
para la poblaci6n pobre y (iii) la mejora en la eficiencia y transparencia de la gesti6n pfiblica,
a1 mismo tiempo que proteger y racionalizar el gasto social, temas estrechamente
relacionados con 10s trabajos que se han estado realizando con la colaboraci6n del Banco
Mundlal. En tal sentido, el PSRL I11 constituye la continuaci6n de una serie de reformas
sociales planteadas en concordancia con 10s objetivos del Gobiemo. Dichas reformas se
encuentran plasmadas en una sene de cornpromisos que el Gobiemo asumi6 con relaci6n a
la politica social.Dichos compromisos son 10s siguientes:

A. Meiorar el Enfosue AntiDobreza del Gasto PGblico

    1.   ReonentacidnPro-Pobre del Gasto Piblico

   En el aiio 2002, a1 menos, el 95% del presupuesto global para las tres funciones sociales
   prioritarias (educaci6n y cultura, salud y saneamiento, y asistencia social por S/. 11 391
   millones) fue ejecutado. Asimismo, la asignacion presupuestal para el 2003 (educaci6n y
   cultura, salud y saneamiento, y asistencia socialpor S/. 12 266 mdlones) son mayores que
   sus montos ejecutados en el 2002 (por un total de S/. 11 181 millones) en tirminos
   reales.

   Para el ejercicio fiscal 2004, el monto de 10s recursos inicialmente previstos para 10s
   Programas Sociales Prioritarios h e de S/. 2 362 d o n e s . Debe agregarse que, en la Ley
   No 28254 (Ley de CrCdito Suplementario)recientemente aprobada por el Congreso de la
   RepGblica, se ha asignado a favor de 10s Programas Sociales Protegidos la suma de S/.
   246,9 mdlones. Hay que indlcar que se ha efectuado una reorientaci6n en la asignacibn de
   10s recursos otorgando mayor prioridad a 10s Programas de Salud Indnidual y Promoci6n
   y Asistencia Social y Comunitaria. En este sentido, se asign6 S/. 134,4 mdlones a1
   Programa de Salud Inlvidual y S/. 93,3 d o n e s a1 Programa de Promocibn y Asistencia
   Socialy Comunitaria.

   2. Protecridnde losProgramasSoczalesPnoritarios (PSPs)

   Con el prop6sito de asegurar la continuidad en la ejecuci6n de 10s recursos destinados a
   fines sociales, el Gobierno del Per6 identific6 seis PSPs: educaci6n inicial, educaci6n
   primaria, educaci6n secundaria, promoci6n y asistencia social, salud colectiva y salud
   .
   indlvidual. Para el period0 2003-2004 se observa lo sigwente:

        2003: El presupuesto inicial del aiio 2003 para 10s Gastos no Financieros ni
       Previsionales a nivel de 10s Programas Protegidos, por toda fuente de financiamiento,
       ascend6 a la suma de S/. 2 609 d o n e s , suma que incluye recursos del proceso de
       privatizaci6ny concesiones.La ejecuci6n de 10sgastos no devengados para el aiio
       2003 de 10s PSPs ascend6 a la suma de S/. 2 173mdlones que signific6el 83,3% del
       presupuesto inicial2003, observindose que a nivel global no se cumpli6 con la meta
       acordada con el Banco Mundlal. Asimismo, en dos de 10s PSPs -Educacibn
       Secundaria y Salud Colectiva -no se encuentran dentro del rango de variaci6n +/-
       30%.

       La raz6n para no haber alcanzado satisfactoriamente las metas acordadas con el
       Banco Mundial se encuentra principalmente a que durante el aiio fiscal 2003 s6lo se
       obtuvo por Recursos de la Privatizaci6n la suma de US$ 51 mdlones, que signific6
       aproximadamente el 12% del total previsto por esa fuente de financiamiento. Cabe



                                         21

                     indicar que en el Presupuesto Inicial del Sector PGblico para el aiio 2003 aprobado
                     medlante Ley No 27879 se habia previsto la suma de S/. 1 424 d o n e s equivalente a
                     US$ 400 millones como ingresos provenientes de la Privatizaci6n y Concesiones, sin
                     embargo, debido a 10s retrasos sufridos en 10s procesos de privatizaci6n durante el
                     aiio 2003, bisicamente 10s ingresos que se obtuvieron provinieron de 10s procesos
                     reahados en aiios anteriores. Este hecho afect6 seriamente el financiamiento de
                     &versos proyectos de inversi6n pfiblica.

                           2004: El monto de 10s recursos previstos en la Ley No28128 - Ley del
                           Presupuesto Pfiblico para el Aiio Fiscal 2004- a favor de 10s PSPs asciende a S/.
                           2 362 d o n e s menor en S/. 45 millones a1presupuesto del2003 excluyendo 10s
                           recursos de la privatizaci6n en tirminos reales. Hay que resaltar que, durante la
                           ejecuci6n presupuestaria, se efectuarin las modificaciones pertinentes a travis de
                          10s respectivos crtditos suplementarios con la finalidad de otorgarle una mayor
                           asignaci6n de recursos por la suma de S/ 60 &ones             destinados a: (i) Programas
                           de Educaci6n Primaria por S/. 7 d o n e s ; y (ii)            Programas de Educaci6n
                          Secundaria por S/. 53 d o n e s , a fin de cumph con las metas establecidas en el
                          PSRL IV.Sobre el particular, en la Ley No 28254                          (Ley de Cridito
                          Suplementario) aprobada recientemente por el Congreso, se han asignado a favor
                          de 10s PSPs la suma de S/. 246,9 millones. No obstante, es pertinente indicar que
                          se ha efectuado una reorientaci6n en la asignacibn de 10s recursos otorgando
                          mayor prioridad a 10s Programas de Salud Individual y a 10s Programas de
                          Promoci6n y Asistencia Social. Si, adicionahente se incluyen 10s recursos de la
                          Ley No28225, que aprueba un Cridito Suplementario a favor del Mmisterio de
                          Educacibn, el monto total de 10s PSPs para el aiio 2004, asciende a S/. 2 629,6
                          d o n e s .

               3.    Focakyal-idnde Programas de Empleo Piblico

               En lo que se refiere a1 Programa A Trabajar Urbano, se ha mantenido el ritmo de
               ejecuci6n de 10s aiios anteriores, existiendo modificaciones menores en su diseiio. En
               tirminos de focalizaci6n, s e g h ingresos (ATU, 2003)' se sabe que el 8O,3yo2 de 10s
               participantes pertenece a1primer quintd de ingresos mis bajos (con ingresos inferiores a
               S/.150) y que el 95.4% de 10s participantes pertenece a 10s dos primeros quintlles de
               ingresos mis bajos (con ingresos inferiores a S/.337). Tomando la variable gastos
               (Chacaltana, 2003)3, el 52% de 10s participantes se ubica en el primer quintil de gastos per
               cipita mis bajos, y el 78% en 10s dos primeros quintdes, s d a r resultado se encuentra en
               cuanto a hogares.

               Luego del rediseiio del Programa, con el objetivo de mejorar la calidad de las obras se
               redujo el criterio de elegbhdad referido a este porcentaje, establecitndose h t e s
               menores por tip0 de proyecto. Con ello, se log6 que el nivel de cofinanciamiento de 10s
               Organismos Proponentes se incrementara de 27% en 10s cuatro primeros concursos a
               36% en el quinto concurso; pero ello implic6 una disminucibn de 8.4% en el aporte del



1A Trabajar Urbano (2003) "Resultados de la Encuesta a Participantes del 11,I11 y IV Concurso de Proyectos del Programa
,iTrabaja Urbano", Lima, septiembre.
2El 33% de 10s participantes manifest6 que no percibia ingresos antes de incorporarse a1Programa y el 47% que si percibia
ingresos, pero estos eran inferiores S/.150 nuevos soles.
3 Chacaltana, Juan (2003) "El Impact0 del Programa     "A Trabajar Urbano": Ganancias de ingreso y uthdad de las obras",
(Lima: CEDEP-CIES), p.3. Para esta estimaci6n se ha uthado la informaci6n de la Encuesta Nacional de Hogares I\'-
2002 aplicada a 10s participantes del Programa, entre diciembre de 2002 y enero de 2003 por el Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica e Informitica (INEI).



                                                         22

            Programa destinado a la MONC (participantes), debido a que la mayoria de 10s proyectos
            presentados eran obras de infraestructura urbana y sanitaria (77.4?1'0),proyectos que por
            su naturaleza requieren de un porcentaje mayor de materiales y equipos para la
            construction.

            Con relacion a1porcentaje de presupuesto orientado a1pago de la MOXC, se observa que
            el 57% del presupuesto del Programa esti orientado a este rubro. Xgregando el seguro y
            el vestuario que se le otorga a1participante, el Programa esta udzando el 61.4% de su
            presupuesto en la mano de obra no calificada.

            Por su parte, en el caso de X Trabajar Rural el 42% del total de 10s costos y el 55% de 10s
            costos del subproyecto corresponde a1 pago de la MONC. Y, a1 menos 41% de 10s
            beneficiarios pertenecen a1primer quinul de ingresos y nos menos del78Oio a 10s hogares
            del primer y segundo quintil.

            Es importante indicar que 10s proyectos del Programa X Trabajar Rural heron
            transferidos para su ejecucion a las municipalidades dtstntales a finales del aiio 2003. En
            efecto, 42 municipalidades distritales iniciaron en sus jurisdtcciones la Tercera Etapa del
            Programa X Trabajar Rural. Los distritos pertenecen a 10s departamentos de Tacna,
            Xrequipa    J-Junin, donde el Fondo Nacional de Compensacion y Desarrollo Social
            (FONCODES) invertiri mediante el Programa A Trabajar Rural S/. 8.6 d o n e s , de la
            siguiente forma: Tacna (S/. 1.7 millones en 8 dtstritos), Junin (S/. 2.1 millones en 11
            distritos y Arequipa (S/. 4.8 rmllones en 23 dtstritos). Finalmente, se concluy6 un estudio
            sobre el impact0 de 10s salarios pagados a 10s miembros de brigada del programa X
            Trabajar Rural como mecanismo de autofocalizacion.


            4. Rej5oma de los ProgramasAlimentanos

            Con el prop6sito de asegurar que la ejecuci6n de 10s programas transferidos no sufriera
           algun deterioro en el trinsito, se buscaba establecer un marco normativo que promueva
           una gesti6n por resultados. Esta orientacibn se plasm6 inicialmente en un proyecto de
           Ley de Transferencias Programiticas, preparado por el Poder Ejecutivo. El objetivo del
           proyecto de Ley de Transferencias Programiticas es establecer mecanismos para las
           transferencias de recursos del Gobierno Nacional a 10s Gobiernos Regonales y a 10s
           Gobiernos Locales destinadas exclusivamente a 10s Programas de L4poyoa la Superacion
           de la Pobreza y apoyo a la generaci6n de oportunidades econ6micas. Este proyecto esti
           siendo revisado por el Congreso a nivel de sus comisiones. Hay que seiialar que, debido a
           una iniciativa de la Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros, se decidii, excluir el programa
           del V ~ S de
                      O Leche de este proyecto de Ley de Transferencias. A1 respecto, cabe precisar
           que, si bien es cierto que el programa del Vaso de Leche tiene una importante
           participacibn en el gasto p~blicoen ahentaci6n y nutrici6n, la proporci6n de recursos
           que recibe (alrededor de US$lOO millones) es una fracci6n reducida del gasto en
           programas sociales4. Asimismo, debe tomarse en cuenta que la ejecuci6n de este
           programa ha        sido    descentrahada     desde su creacibn,       correspondendo esta
           responsabdidad a 10s gobiemos locales; por lo tanto es muy h t a d o el rol del gobierno
           nacional en su operacibn.




4La suma del gasto en 10s programas funcionales Education Inicial, Educacion Primaria, Educacion
Secundaria,Salud Individual, Salud Colectiva y Promocionp ;\sistencia Social Comunitaria alcanza 10s S/.8,100
millones.


                                                  23

 Por otro lado, en el caso de la asignaci6n de recursos, actualmente, el presupuesto del
 2004 para programas ahentarios (a excepci6n de comedores populares) es dstribuido a
 municipalidades sipendo una f6rmula en pro de 10s pobres que asigna el 38% del
 presupuesto a 10s distritos pertenecientes a1 primer quinttl y 68% a1 primer y segundo
 quinttl.

 Por ultimo, debe tomarse en cuenta que una via dsponible para mejorar las prioridades
 en el conjunto de programas de asistencia social y que debe tomar mayor importancia en
 el corto plazo, se encuentra en 10s Planes de Desarrollo Concertado. Estos instrumentos
 han sido previstos en la Constitucibn Politica del Per6 y deben ser promovidos por 10s
 Gobiernos Regionales y Locales, segun corresponda.



 5. Reformade IaJ Pensiones

 Entre las modficaciones recientes realizadas en el Sistema Public0 de Pensiones, se tiene
 las siguientes:
  .
       Decreto Supremo No. 159-2002-EF (octubre 2002), que otorga a1MEF facultades
       de supervisi6n y control sobre el reconocimiento y calificaci6n de 10s derechos
       pensionarios del R i p e n del Decreto Ley No. 20530 que realizan las unidades
       ejecutoras. Este ademis establece que las mencionadas unidades ejecutoras deben
       publicar una relaci6n de las pensiones pagadas que Sean superiores a 1,sUnidades
       Impositivas Tributarias PIT) y deben informar a1MEF y a la Contraloria General
       de la Repfiblica de las incorporaciones y reincorporaciones que realicen a este
      r C p e n . Posteriormente, se emiti6 el DS No048-2004-EF (abnl2004), que
       complernenta a1DS No. 1592002-EF, detallando la informaci6n necesaria para que
       el iWsterio de Econom'a y Finanzas cumpla con las funciones de supervisar y
      controlar el reconocimiento, declaracibn, calificaci6n y pago de pensiones del
      & p e n del Decreto Ley No. 20530.
      Decretos Supremos No. 026-2002-EF (febrero 2003) y 043-2002-EF (marzo 2003),
      10s cuales establecen que las entidades encargadas del reconocimiento, declaracibn,
      calificaci6n y pago de 10s derechos pensionarios del Decreto Ley No20530 deben
      remitk a la Oficina de Normaltzaci6n Previsional (ONP)10s montos de sus plandlas
      e informacibn detallada sobre sus pensionistas y afhados activos. Debido a que las
      plandlas de este r i p e n son a h s t r a d a s por las unidades ejecutoras que
      otorgaron las pensiones a 10s trabajadores, 10s dspositivos legales mencionados
      permitirin centrahar la informaci6n del Decreto Ley No. 20530. Actualmente, el
      MEF se encuentra en un proceso de recolecci6n de dicha informaci6n. A a b d de
      2004, alrededor de 400 unidades ejecutoras han remitido la mencionada
      informaci6n. De otro lado, este decreto supremo dispone que las mencionadas
      unidades ejecutoras deben realizar el cilculo actuarial de sus pasivos pensionarios en
 .    coordinaci6n con la ONP y que deben reconocer dentro de su contabdidad el
      resultado de &cho cilculo actuarial.
      Se ha defmido una instituci6n responsable de la politica pensionaria y de la
     racionalizaci6n del r C p e n del Decreto Ley No. 20530. Asi, medlante Resoluci6n
     Mmsterial No. 326-2003-EF/15, se han asignado tales funciones a la Direcci6n de
     Estudos Macro Financieros @EMF) de la Direcci6n General de Asuntos
     Econ6micos y Sociales (DGAES) que depende del Viceministerio de Economia del
     Mmisterio de Economia y Finanzas (MEF).

Xsimismo, con respecto a1 Decreto Ley No. 20530, el Ejecutivo ha logrado introducir
dos modificaciones:


                                     24

a)  Crear el Fondo y la Contribuci6n Solidaria para la Asistencia Previsional (Ley No 28046;
    promulgada el 31.7.2003), constituyendo un fondo intanglble y destinado a financiar el
    pago de las pensiones y la nivelaci6n de 10s pensionistas comprendidos en el r e p e n del
    Decreto Ley No. 20530. Dicha contribuci6n grava a las pensiones mayores de 14 UIT
    anuales (S/. 44,800) con una tasa equivalentea la que se aplica en el impuesto a la renta
    de personas naturales. La siguiente normatividad especifica a este Fondo fue aprobada
    posteriormente:

    -   Decreto LegislativoNo. 948 (enero 2004), que precisa que el Fondo Consolidado de
        Reservas Previsionales (FCR) es el ente encargado de la adrmnistracibn de 10s
        recursos del fondo establecido.Ademis, establece que la Superintendencia Nacional
        de Admmstraci6n Tributaria (SUNAT es la entidad responsable de la
        adrmnistraci6n de la contribuci6n7correspondiendole un porcentaje del monto que
        recaude por su a h s t r a c i o n .Asimismo, este Decreto Legslativo prorroga la

   -    entrada en vigencia de esta contribuci6n hasta el 1.3.2004.
        Decreto Supremo No. 053-2004-EF (abnl2004), que aprueba el reglamento de la
        Ley No. 28046, estableciendoque la contribucibn solidaria debe ser retenida
        mensualmente por las entidades del Sector Piiblico,quienes tambikn son 10s agentes
        responsables de la declaraci6n y pago. Para deterrninar el monto de esta retencion,
        se debe restar de la pensi6n mensual un dozavo de 14UIT (S/. 3,733), aplicindose a
        este exceso la contribuci6n cuya tasa es equivalentea la que se aplica en el Impuesto
        a la Renta para personas naturales.
   -   Resolucion de SuperintendenciaNo. 110-2004-SUNAT(mayo 2004), que
       implementa operativamente el referido esquema de declaraci6ny pago de la
       Contribuci6n, regulando el medio, la forma, el plazo, el lugar y las condiciones para
       una adecuada declaraci6n y pago de la contribucibn que deben hacer las diversas
       entidades del SectorP~blico,en su calidad de agentes retenedores.
   -   Resoluci6n de SuperintendenciaNo. 151-2004/SUNAT establece que la obligaci6n
       de declarar y pagar las referidas contribuciones empezari a hacerse efectiva a partir
       del5 de julio del presente aiio, fecha a partir de la cual se pagarin las contribuciones
       devengadas de marzo, abd, mayo y junio de 2004.

b) Actualizar de mod0 gradual la tasa de aportes del Decreto Ley No. 20530 (Ley No
   28047; promulgada el 31.7.2003), de mod0 que ksta debia incrementarse del 6%, tasa
  vigente hasta julio de 2003, segh el siguienteesquema:




              Desde el 1"anosto de 2003                     13%
                            u
              Desde el 1"agosto de 2006                    20%
              Desde el 1"agosto de 2009                    27%

  A travks de incrementos en la recaudaci6n del Estado, estas mehdas buscan reducir la
  pesada carga fiscal impuesta por el rkgimen del Decreto Ley No. 20530. De otro lado, se
  ha estimado que el Estado subsidia alrededor del85Yo del capitalrequerido unitario de las
  pensiones de este sistema y, en tal sentido, estas medidas apuntan a reducir este
  desequihbriofinancier0para el caso de aquellos que permanecen como afiliados activos.

  Finalmente, el Ejecutivo ha remitido a1 Congreso de la Rep~blicaun proyecto de
  Reforma Constitucional que permitiria eliminar 10s impedimentos para la reforma de este


                                         25

  rCgunen. Este procebento requiere de dos votaciones en el Pleno del Congreso. La
  primera votacion fue favorable y ocurri6 en la bltima semana de mayo. Luego de la
  Reforma Constitucional, se debe expedir una Ley de Desarrollo Constitucional sobre el
  citado R i p e n . Esta incluiria, adicionalmente, la ehnaci6n de la nivelacibn, la
  reducci6n de las futuras pensiones de viudez a1 50%, la e h a c i 6 n de las futuras
  pensiones de hjas solteras mayores de 21 aiios y la implantaci6n de topes graduales a las
  actualesy hturas pensiones mayores de una Unidad Impositiva Tributaria (UIg

  El proyecto de Reforma Constitucionalpropone:
  -   La modificaci6n del articulo 11" , para permitir la adrmnistraci6n unitaria de 10s
      regimenes pensionarios a cargo del Estado.
  -   La modificaci6n del articulo 103O, para establecer expresamente en la Constituci6n
      que el principio juridic0 aplicable para anahar la retroactividad de las leyes es el de
      10s Hechos Cumplidos.
  -   La sustitucion de la Primera Disposici6n Final, para transformar el tratamiento
      constitucional a1r C p e n de pensiones del Decreto Ley No. 20530.

  Asi, la reforma constitucional planteada perrnitiri cerrar defmitivamente el r i p e n del
  Decreto Ley No. 20530 e introducir las modificaciones requeridas: centrahzaci6n de la
  adminlstraci6n del sistema, e h a c i 6 n de la nivelaci6n de remuneraciones y pensiones,
  aplicaci6n gradual de topes a las pensiones mis elevadas, nuevas normas sobre pensiones
  de sobrevivientes, entre otras. Estas reformas tendrin efectos positivos para la sociedad
  en general y la gesti6n del Estado en particular: la mejora en la calidad del gasto pfiblico,
  la reducci6n de inequidades reorientando el gasto y la iniciaci6n de la reforma de la
  carrera admmistrativay el sistema de remuneraciones del sector pbblico.


Mejorar elAcceso a Servicios de Educaci6n y Salud de Calidad

  7. Mejora en el acceso de lapoblacl;dn pobre a 10sseruicios de salzrd

 En el marco de la reforma del sector salud, el Seguro Integral de Salud (SIS) es el
 administrador central de una variedad de programas existentes, cuya misi6n tiene como
 principal prioridad la cobertura de gestantes, menores de 5 aiios, niiios y adolescentes
 menores de 18 aiios, y adultos focahzados y en estado de emergencia. De acuerdo con el
 Programa, hacia diciembre del 2003, las afiliaciones heron de 7'571.302, siendo mayor la
 proporcion de beneficiados con edades entre 10s 5 y 17 ados de edad, seguida por el
 grupo de niiios menores a 5 aiios.

 En funci6n a las metas de cobertura establecidas, todos 10s grupos lograron sobrepasar lo
 programado con excepci6n del grupo de 5 a 17 aiios de edad y del grupo de adultos
 focalizados. En particular, el componente Materno Infantd alcanz6 un 118.01% respecto
 de lo programado hacia el filtimo trimestre del aiio 2003. Asimismo, la cobertura del
 componente Matemo Infantil en las 8 DISAS priorizadas alcanz6 un 102.77% sobre el
 100%programado y se alcanz6 un 79.5% sobre en el porcentaje de atenciones realizadas
 en zonas rurales y urbano marginales sobre el 75% programado.

 Las metas de cobertura del Seguro Integral de Salud para 10s siguientes tres aiios (2004-
 2006) son de alcanzar 8.8, 11.5y 13.3d o n e s de afiliados, respectivamente.

 Este crecimiento de la cobertura, sin embargo, debe ser anahzado con cautela, pues debe
 tenerse en cuenta que dados 10s escasos recursos disponibles, las mayores costo-



                                          26

 efectividad y equidad del programa se alcanzarin cuando este crecimiento de la cobertura
 se haga priorizando zonas y grupos de atenci6n urgente. Ello paralelamente con un
 manejo prudente de 10s recursos que evite impactos fiscales negativos. Se conoce que, en
 10s primeros seis meses del aiio en curso, el SIS habia ejecutado 5 por ciento mis que su
 presupuesto institucional de apertura. X pesar de que se ha aprobado una ampliaci6n
presupuestal que seguramente permitiri que el SIS cumpla con sus obligaciones, es muy
necesario tomar en cuenta estos problemas de financiamiento para realizar
modificaciones a la forma de operar del programa y hacerlo sostenible.



2. Mejora en elacceso a losseruiaos de educaridn de cakakd

El Sistema Unico de Pladas (SUP) busca unificar criterios para una correcta aplicaci6n
de 10s pagos de remuneraciones, con el us0 de un sistema informitico estindar, en el
marco de la politica de eficiencia del gasto p6blico, proponiendo la ehnaci6n de
mecanismos indebidos en la elaboraci6n de plandlas. Este sistema se esti implementando
en 20 Direcciones Regionales de Educaci6n             ORE) yen la actualidad se encuentra
implementado en un 77.62% y en proceso de implementaci6n en un 15.91%. Se ha
previsto que hacia julio de 2004 se estari implementando mis del 90% de las Instancias
Intermedias de Gestibn, a nivel nacional, quedando varios centros de proceso de la
planilla,que podria demorar dada la dtspersi6n geogrifica.

El Sistema de Admmistraci6n de Plazas (Nexus) tiene como objetivo lograr la correcta
asignaci6n de plazas en 10s centros educativos a nivel nacional, asi como ser el sustento
de 10s pagos realizados a travPs del SUP, corrigiendo 10s pagos indebidos que se
estuvieran realizando. El sistema Nexus se encuentra implementado en un 52% a escala
nacional lo cual involucra a 11 regiones: Lima, Lima Provincias, Callao, Piura, La
Libertad, Tumbes, Lambayeque, Ica, Arequipa, Apurimac y Amazonas. Se espera que
hacia julio de 2004 se tenga implementado el sistema en 13regiones mis, lo que equivale
a1 60%.

A mediados de setiembre de 2004 el MED deberia culminar la implementaci6n integrada
del SUP y del Nexus segh lo dispuesto la Ley No 28197. Cabe seiialar que esta
implementaci6n no incluye la etapa de supervisi6n y s e v e n t o que se comenzari a
desarrollar en el segundo trimestre de este aiio.

Sobre la Aplicaci6n Progresiva de la Base de Datos a travPs del Sistema Integrado de
Administraci6n Financiera del Sector P~blico(SIAF-SP), seghn la Ley No28254, la
operatividad de la base de datos se efectuari conforme a un programa de implementacibn
por etapas a nivel de unidades ejecutoras del medto informitico respectivo incorporado
en el proyecto SIAF-SP, a cargo del MEF, que incluye a1personal nombrado, contratado,
pensionistas y locadores de servicios.

En relaci6n a1Sistema de Incentivos de Desempeiio y MPritos se desarroll6 lo siguiente:


a)   Un Plan Piloto de Bonificaciones Especiales para Docentes en Areas Rurales con la
     finalidad de analizar el impacto de incentivos, dadas las caracteristicas laborales de
     10s profesores. El Plan Piloto 2003 incorpor6 a mis de 1000 docentes durante el aiio
     2004. El Plan Piloto 2004 se continu6 llevando a cab0 beneficiando a un total de
     1821 docentes. No obstante, para el aiio 2004 el dtseiio del Plan Piloto tuvo
     diferentes ajustes como resultado de la expenencia del Plan Piloto 2003. Como parte
     de estos ajustes,el Plan Piloto 2004 consider6 necesario incorporar pruebas a1inicio


                                      27

                     y a1tCrmino del aiio escolar con la finalidad de bonificar a futuro a aquellos docentes
                     cuyos alumnos hayan alcanzado un dzjirenualsign$cativo medido a travPs de estas dos
                     pruebas. La udzaci6n de estas pruebas en el presente aiio permitiri evaluar la
                     pertinencia de utilizar estos instrumentos, ya validados en el context0 rural, en
                     procesos posteriores de bonificaci6n, tomando en cuenta como criterio ya no s610 la
                     asistencia del docente a1 centro sino tambiPn el nivel diferencial de aprendizaje
                     alcanzado por 10s estudiantes.


                b)   Un Sistema de Seguimiento el cual se bas6 en la verificacibn de la asistencia de 10s
                     docentes tres veces cada &a por parte de 10s padres y madres de f a d a . El Sistema
                     de Seguimiento h e responsabhdad del Consejo Educativo Institucional (CEI) de
                     cada instituci6n educativa. En caso de no existir se ayud6 a su debida instalacibn.
                     Durante el aiio 2004 este sistema tambiCn incorpor6 ciertos ajustes 10s cuales heron
                     coordinados estrechamente con el equipo de GRhDE.

          Mejorar la Gobemabdidad: Aumentar la Transparencia y Participaci6n de 10s Pobres

               I . Stguimientoy evaluacibn de losprogramas soeiales conparticzpacidn social

               Se pus0 en conocimiento pfiblico 10s resultados de dos instrumentos de percepci6n
               ciudadana: i) el "M6dulo de Gobemabhdad, Corrupcibn y Participacibn Ciudadana" de la
               Encuesta Nacional de Hogares 2002-IV, llevada a cab0 por el INEI, ii)                  el estudio
               "Aplicaci6n de la Libreta de Calificaciones a 10s Programas Sociales" realizado por el
               Instituto CUANTO y fmanciado por el Banco Mundal.

               Se elaborb una propuesta de indcadores relacionados con las politicas y prioridades de
               transparencia y participacibn que deberin ser consultados, validados y completados con
              10s diferentes sectores sociales con la fmalidad de concluir en un modelo de anilisis e
              informe de s e w e n t o y evaluacibn de las ireas de transparencia y participacibn en el
              sector pfiblico.

              Se ha desarrollado una primera versi6n del Portal de la Consulta Amigable. Este portal
              cuenta con la informaci6n de la ejecuci6n presupuestaria y fmanciera de las Unidades
              Ejecutoras (UE)del Gobiemo Central, registrada en el SIAF-SP, asi como informacibn
              de 10s principales Programas Sociales Protegidos, presentada a travks de un ambiente
              amigable. Presenta Reportes Tipicos exportables a hoja de cilculo y esth disponible en la
              direccibn http://transparencia-economica.mef.gob.pe/~gable/default.asp.

              De otro lado, se cuenta con una "pestaiia" en la Consulta Amigable que perrnite hacer
              seguirmento de las metas fisicas vinculadas a1 gasto en 3 programas: PRONXA, SIS y A
              Trabajar Urbano.

              Finalmente la Ley No 272455 (Ley de Prudencia y Transparencia Fiscal, ahora
              denominada Ley de Responsabilidad y Transparencia Fiscal en virtud de lo dispuesto en
              la Ley No 27958 -publicada 8.5.2003- que la modificb), tiene por objeto establecer 10s
              lineamientos para una mejor gesti6n de las fmanzas phblicas, con prudencia y
              transparencia fiscal, asi como tambiin el Fondo de Estabhzacibn Fiscal con el fin de
              contribuir a la estabhdad econbmica. En tal sentido, en el capitulo I1 de dicha Ley, se
              establece que el iWnisterio de Econom'a y Finanzas (MEF) deber6 elaborar y publicar
              cada aiio el Marco Macroecon6mico Multianual             0          el cual incluiri proyecciones


jPublicada el 27.12.99.



                                                     28

       macroecon6micas para el aiio el cual se esth elaborando el presupuesto y 10s dos aiios
       siguientes.

       2. Mqor tranJparenciay @&ncia en procesos de adquisiciones publicas y j%rtalecimiento de la
           capacidad del Gobiernopara labcba contra la compcidn

        El Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado (CONSUCODE)
        tiene la facultad de sancionar a postores y contratistas que incumplan las dlsposiciones
        contenidas en el Reglamento de la Ley No 27767, Ley del Programa Nacional
        Complementario de Asistencia Alunentaria,la cual tiene por objeto establecer las normas
        para regular la obligatoriedad de la adquisici6n de productos alunenticios nacionales de
        origen agropecuario e htdrobiol6gico, por 10s Programas de Apoyo Alunentario y
        Compensaci6n Social y de todos 10s organismos del Estado que uthcen recursos
       pfiblicos. Asimismo, tiene las facultad de sancionar a aquellos que no cumplan con las
        estipulaciones contractuales de dlcho Reglamento a traves del Tribunal de
       Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado.

       El CONSUCODE podri dictar, en el imbito de su competencia, normas
       complementarias a1Reglamento asi como adoptar las medidas necesarias para supervisar
       su debido cumphiento. Las resoluciones y pronunciamientos del CONSUCODE
       tienen validez y autoridad adrmnistrativa las cuales deberin ser acatadas por todas las
       agencias gubemamentales.

IV. Lecciones Aprendidas

    a. Sobre el desempeiio del Banco
       A pesar de que en el proceso de ejecuci6n de este proyecto se produjeron diferencias de
       criterio con relaci6n a la posici6n del Gobiemo que, finalmente, son propias de este tip0
       de operaciones, en tCrminos generales el Gobiemo expresa su conformidad con el
       desempeiio del Banco Mundlal durante el desarrollo de la tercera etapa del PrCstamo
       Programitico de Reforma Social.

       Como un asunto a &scutir en mayor profundldad y que corresponde tanto a1 desempeiio
       del Banco como a1beneficiario,se puede indlcar que en el caso particular de 10s PRSL, la
       dlversidad de 10s temas puede dficultar su seguimientoy dlspersar 10s esfuerzos sobre la
       agenda de politicas. En tal sentido, seria adecuado pensar en la concentracihn en un
       menor nknero de tbpicos, con mayor conexi6n unos de otros, y que representen con
       mayor claridad la prelaci6n de politicas.

       Al respecto, es precis0 mencionar que el Marco Macroecon6mico Multianual (MMM)
       2005-2007 y el Decreto Supremo 009-2004-PCM7aprobado en febrero pasado, recogen
       una orientaci6n de politicas aprobada por el Consejo de Ministros. M6s a h , el MMM
       guarda coherencia con la Declaraci6n del Foro del Acuerdo Nacional (19 de abril de
       2004) a1 declarar como prioridad las acciones de proteccibn de infancia. Estos esfuerzos
      por parte del Gobiemo por centrar las prioridades, deben ser acompaiiados por el Banco
       en orden de tener una convergencia de esfuerzos en una misma linea.

    b. Sobre el desempeiio del Beneficiario
      A lo largo de la operaci6n se ha tenido dtficultades para el cumphiento de 10s
      compromisos. Existen a1 menos dos debhdades, que no son exclusivas de 10s sectores
      sociales en el pais, sin0 transversales al sector pfiblico: la ausencia de lineamientos claros
      de politicas y la debilidad institucional. Respecto del primer punto, se ha avanzado en el



                                           29

           establecimiento de una agenda social que aclare 10s heamientos y prioridades en este
           campo. Por otro lado, la debhdad institucional se refleja en varios aspectos, destacando
           nitidamente 10s problemas de recursos humanos (p.e. alta rotacibn).

           Frente a este contexto, es importante el rol de 10s programas de ajuste como
           instrumentos de consenso de medlano plazo, aunque debe quedar claro que la secuencia
           a la que se debe llegar es la de tener una agenda y que ksta se registre en una matriz de
           politicas. Xsi, ante la debhdad de las herramientas y espacios actuales, estas operaciones
           son funcionales a la construccih de agendas.

Lima, juho de 2004




                                              30

            IMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETION REPORT ON THE
   PROGRAMMATIC SOCIALREFORM LOAN I11 - PSRL I11 (Loan NoPE-P078951)
                            Comments by the Governmentof Peru
                                      Unofficial Translation


I.    Introduction

      In 2003, the World Bank granted the Peruvian Government the Programmatic Social
      Reform Loan I11 (PSRL 111),for US$l50 d o n .It should be noted that the initial amount
      of the loan was for US$lOO d o n but the sum was increased on account of the
      Government'scompliancewith the requirements of the "High Case" set out in the "Country
     Assistance Strategy" (CAS). This loan wiU allow Peru to consolidate the stabhty of its fiscal
     and balance of payments accounts and to meet the goals set in the Multiannual
     MacroeconomicFramework (Marco Macroecon6micoMultianual,MMM).

     The goal of PSlU I11 is to continue with the ongoing program of reforms in the social
     sectors initiated through the two previous operations in order to consolidate the protection
     of social programs and to increase their efficiency, ensure that the poor have access to
     health-care, education and other services and strengthen social monitoring of these
     programs. Thus, it is important to point out that ths lund of loans, aside from being a
     source of unrestricted funds, helps promote a series of reforms in the social sector going in a
     single direction and have proved to be sustainablein time.

     Against this background, the loan helped to make an orderly arrangement and better
     allocation of public resources while contributing to the improvement of social services and
     laying the basis for a system of public admtlllstration of social sectors more efficient and
     with increased transparency and control.

11.  Macroeconomic Background

     The performance of the Peruvian economy in the last three years has been good. The main
     economic indicators have fluctuated w i h expected ranges and have sometimes exceeded
     hstoric levels. Furthermore, a series of large investment projects of recent implementation -
     such as the Camisea Gas Project - or about to be executed - such as the Las Bambas Muung
     Project or the second stage of the Camisea Project-, guarantee a minimum growth base for
     the next years, even if international conditions were to change.

    The present situation allows for a sustained increase of production, which will allow the
    Peruvian society to find solutions for the serious unemployment and poverty problems it
     faces. The current Adrmnistration faces the challenge of implementing, in a timely fashion,
    the appropriate measures to take full advantage of this convergence of favorable conditions.
    Thus, the Peruvian Government is committed to exercising an efficient economic
    management, guaranteeing macroeconomic stabhty and, at the same time, implementing a
    series of reforms to ensure economic growth in the years to come.

    The present international outlook is very favorable on account of the measures that the
    Government has implemented or plans to implement:




                                             31

      6. Fiscal Area

           The Administrationwdl keep its commitment of safeguardingthe sustainabllity of public
           finances, mostly through the continued reduction of fiscal deficits in compliance with
           the b y de Reponsabi2'dudy Transparennu Fiscal (the Law of Fiscal Responsibhty and
          Transparency or LRTE), and by preserving the rationality and efficiency of public
           spending.To ths end, a series of reforms should be implemented, the most salient ones
            .
           being:

                Fiscal Reform: based on the progressive increase of the tax pressure, the Peruvian
                Government is implementing measures towards the elunination of tax exemptions
                and preferential treatment.

               Social Security Reform: this reform requires the elunination of the internal pension
                fund regime regulated by Decree Law No 20530 - known as the Ce`dtla Viva
                system-, a crucial pre-requisite for guaranteeing a sustainable fiscal policy. The
                Administration has proposed a constitutionalreform authorizing the termination of
                t h s regime and the immediate introduction of changes such as a centraked
                management of the pension system and the removal of the equakation of wages
                and pensions among the more critical ones.

     7. MonetarvArea

          A monetary policy with explicit inflation targets is in place, guaranteeing that inflation
          should fluctuate around 2.5% per year.

          Among some of the major strengths of the Peruvian economy we should note: (i) low
          inflation rates, whch have evolved withn the range foreseen by the monetary
          authorities; (ii) hgh level of net international reserves at the Bunco Central de Resem del
          Pen2 (CentralReserve Bank of Peru or BCRP); and (iii) economic activity inlcators such
          as Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employment and overdue debt portfolio indices,
          which clearly show that Peru is shfting from the stage of stabhation to economic
          growth.

111. Goals of the Loan

     According to 2002 figures, 54.3% of the population is poor, meaning by ths that they cannot
     satisfj their basic needs; furthermore, approximately one out of every four Peruvians cannot
     afford a basic food basket that would cover minimum nutritional requirements. Faced with
     this situation,the A h s t r a t i o n has declared the war on poverty as its first priority. To this
     end, there are two fundamental factors that would enable Peru to overcome the present
     situation: ensuringcontinuous economic growth and implementing quality social policies.

     A series of public and private players have been involved, during these last years, in the
     preparation of an efficient, equitable, participatory and transparent social agenda: the Aczierdo
     Nanonal (National Agreement), the Carta Social (Social Letter) subscribed within the
     framework of the Mesa de Concertacidn de la Lacha contra la Pobreya (Consensus Budding Forum
     Against Poverty) and the Plan de Sziperanzn de la Pobrep (Strategy for Poverty Reduction).
     Llkewise, the Peruvian Government has undertaken a series of commitments within, the
     Calita de Politica Sorial (Letter of SocialPolicy) for the period 2003-2006.




                                                32

        To this end, the Government's strategy involves providing: (i) greater access to quality basic
        services (health, education, nutrition); (ii) increased economic opportunities for the poorer
        population, and (iii)     improved efficiency and transparency of public management
        concurrently with the protection and streamlining of social expendture. These issues are
        closely related to the work already under way with the support of the World Bank. Thus, the
        PSRL I11 means the continuation of a series of social reforms designed in accordance with
        the goals of the Government. The aforementioned reforms have been expressed in a series
        of commitments undertaken by the Government in the field of social policies. Among them
       we can mention:

       A. Stress on the Anti-PovertvAmroach in Public %ending

3. Rediredtion0fPub.hSpending TowardJ thePoor

            During 2002, approximately 95% of the global budget for the three main social functions
            (education and culture, health-care and sanitation and social aid for S/. 11,391 million)
            was executed. Furthermore, the budget allocations for 2003 (education and culture,
            health-care and sanitation and social aid for S/.12,266 million) are larger in real terms
            than the amounts executed in 2002 (a total of S/. 11,181d o n ) .

           The amount of resources initially allocated to the Priority Social Programs for fiscal year
            2004 was of S/. 2,362 d o n . It should be noted that the Deficit Appropriation Law No
           28254, (Lyde Cri'ditoSztplementano)recently adopted by the Peruvian Congress, earmarked
           the sum of S/. 246.9 d o n to Protected SocialPrograms. Furthermore, the allocation of
           resources has undergone a process of redtrection and assigns hgher priority to the
           Individual Health and Social and Community Promotion and Assistance Programs. To
           ths end, S/. 134.4 d o n were allotted to the Indvidual Health Program, and S/. 93.3
           million to the Social and CommunityPromotion and Assistance Program.

4. Protection 0fPnon3SorialPrograms (iTSPs)

           In order to ensure the disbursement of resources for social purposes, the Peruvian
           Government identified six PSPs: pre-school education, primary education, secondary
           education, social assistance and promotion, collective health and individual health. The
           situation for the 2003-2004period is as follows:
           .
                2003: The initial budget for 2003 for non-financial and non-social security
           expenditures for the Protected Programs, including all sources of funding, amounted to
           S/. 2,609 d o n , includmg the resources resulting from the process of privatization and
           concessions. In 2003, the dlsbursement of non-accrued expendltures for PSPs reached
           S/. 2,173 d o n or 83.3% of the initial 2003 budget noting that, at the global level, the
           goal agreed upon with the World Bank was not attained. Furthermore, two of the PSPs
           -secondary education and collective health- are not within the +/- 30% range of
           variation.

           The reason for not satisfactody meeting the goals agreed upon with the World Bank can
           be found, basically, in the fact that, during fiscal 2003, the resources from privatization
           amounted to US$51 d o n , representing only 12% of the total foreseen for this source
           of funding. It should be noted that the Initial Budget for the Public Sector for 2003,
           adopted through Law No 27879, envisaged that S/. 1,424 d o n (equal to US$400
           d o n ) would be generated by the privatization and concession process; however, due to
           delays in the privatizationprocess in 2003, the income received was basically provided by



                                               33

                 processes undertaken in previous years. Thls fact seriously impaired the funding of
                 severalpublic investmentprojects.

                           2004: The amount of resources allocated under Law No 28128 - the Public
                 Budget for Financial Year 2004 Law ('Leydel Prempuesto Pziblicopara elAKo Fiscal2004)- to
                 the PSPs is of S/. 2,362 d o n ,i.e., S/. 45 d o n less than in the 2003 budget,
                 excludmg privatization proceeds in real terms. It should be stressed that, during the
                 budget execution, any modification deemed relevant will be introduced through the
                 appropriate deficit appropriations in order to provide more resources in the amount of
                S/. 60 d o n to (i) primary education programs, for S/. 7 d o n , and (ii) secondary
                education programs for S/. 53 d o n ,in order to attain the goals set in the PSRL IV.In
                this sense, the Deficit Appropriations Law No28254Gy de C~ditoSzplementano), recently
                adopted by Congress, has earmarked S/. 246.9 d o n for the PSPs. However, it should
                be pointed out that there has been a redxection in resource allocation giving higher
                priority to the Individual Health Program and the Social Assistance and Promotion
                Program. If, furthermore, we include the resources deriving from Law No 28225, which
                authorized a Deficit Appropriation in favor of the W s t r y of Education, the sum total
                of funds for PSPs in 2004 is of S/. 2,629.6 d o n .

                8.    Focus on PublicEmplyzent Programs

               In regards to the A Trabajar Urbano Program (ATU) some minor changes have been
               introduced in its design but the rhythm of execution continues unabated. In terms of
               focus, on the basis of income (ATU, 2003)6, 80.3% of participants fall into the first
               quinule of lowest incomes (with incomes below S/. 150) and 95.4% of beneficiaries falls
               into the first two quinules of lowest incomes (with incomes less than S/. 337). As regards
               the expenditure variable (Chacaltana, 2003)7, 52% of participants falls into the fwst
               quintile in terms of the lowest per capita expenditure and 78% falls into the first two
               quinules; similarresults were found for households.

               With the goal of improving the quality of works, the Program was redesigned and some
               limitations were introduced into the eligibihty criterion on the basis of the
               aforementioned percentage,which set lower thresholds per type of project. Thus, it was
               possible to increase the 27% co-financingby Proponent Agencies for the first four stages
               to 36% in the fifth stage, but thus implied a reduction of 8.4% in the funds the Program
               allotted to unskdled laborers (participants) since most of the projects submitted were
               urban and sanitation infrastructure works (77.4%) which construction requires a higher
               percentage of material and equipment.

               It should be noted that 57% of the Program'sbudget is earmarked for unsktlled labour. If
               we include the insurance and clothmg provided to participants, the percentage the
               Program allots to unsktlled labour rises to 61.4%.




6A Trabajar Urbano (2003) "Resultados de la Encuesta a Participantes del 11, I11 y I\` Concurso de Proyectos del Programa
A Trabajar Urbano" (Results of the Survey of Participants in the 11,111 and IV Calls for Projects of the A Trabajar Urbano
Project), Lima, September.
7Chacaltana, Juan (2003) "El Impact0 del Programa "A Trabajar Urbano": Ganancias de ingreso y uthdad de las obras"
(Impact of the "A Trabajar Urbano" Program: Increases in income and usefulness of works), (Lima: CEDEP-CIES), p.3.
In this estimate, information from the National Household Survey IV-2002 was used and applied to the participants in the
Program, between December 2002 and January 2003 by the National Statistics and Data Processing Institute (Instituto
Nacional de Estadistica e Informitica, INEI).



                                                        34

             In the case of the A Trabqar Rural Program, 42% of total costs and 55% of subproject
             costs pertains to unskilled labour payment; furthermore, 44% of beneficiaries fall into the
             first income quintile and more than 78% of households fall into the first and second
             quintdes.

             It should be noted that execution of the projects in the A Trabqur Rural Program was
             transferred to the district municipalities in late 2003. Actually, 42 &strict municipalities
             started to implement, in their jurisdictions, the T h d Stage of the A Trabqar Rzrral
             Program. The Districts are located in the Departments of Tacna, Arequipa and Junin,
             where the Compensation and Social Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de
             Compensacibn y Desarrollo Social or FONCODES) wdl invest S/. 8.6 d o n through
             this Program as follows:Tacna (S/. 1.7d o n in 8 districts),Junin (S/. 2.1 d o n in 11
             districts) and hequipa (S/. 4.8 d o n in 23 districts). Finally, a study was completed on
             the impact of wages paid to the brigade members of the A Trabqar Rzrral program as a
             mechanism of self-targeting.

             9.   RefDmz oftheFood PmgramJ

             With the goal of ensuring that the execution of transferred programs would not be
             impaired as a result of h s process, a new regulating framework was conceived which
             implemented results-based management. This goal was initially translated into a Bill on
             Programmatic Transfers (Proyecto de hy de Transferencias Programbticas) prepared by the
             National Executive Branch. The purpose of h s BLU is to create mechanisms for the
             transfer of resources from the Central Government to the Regonal and Local
             Governments with the sole purpose of funding the Support Programs to Overcome
            Poverty (Programasde Apyo a la Szlperabbn de la Pobreya) and the generation of economic
            opportunities. This project is being reviewed by Congress at the committee level. It
            should be noted that, on the basis of an initiative by the President of the Council of
            Ministers, it was decided to exclude the Cup of hhlk Program (Programa del Vaso de Leche)
            from this BLU on Programmatic Transfers. In this sense, it should be stated that, even
            though the Cup of Milk Program plays an important part in food and nutrition public
            spendmg, the amount of resources allotted to it (approximately US$100 million)
            represents a minor share of the expenditure on social program@. Furthermore,
            consideration should be gven to the fact that the execution of this program has been
            decentralized since its inception, f a h g within the purview of local governments, and
            therefore the role the centralgovernment plays is very small.

            On the other hand, in the 2004 budget, food programs resources (not including soup
            kitchens) are presently being distributed to municipalities on the basis of a pro-poor
            formula allotting 38% of the budget to districts f a h g into the first quintile and 68% to
            those fallinginto the first and second quintdes.

            Finally, it should be borne in mind that the Concerted Development Plans Planes de
            Desamllo Concertado) are a method on hand to improve prioritization of social aid
            programs which should be awarded more weight in the short term. These instruments are
            included in the Political Constitution of Peru and must be promoted by Local or Regonal
            Governments, as applicable.




8The total amount of expenditure on the functionalprograms for Pre-School Education, Primary Education,
SecondaryEducation, IndividualHealth-care,Collective Health-care and Communityand SocialAssistance and
Promotionreaches S/. 8.1billion.


                                                35

          10. Pension $stem R$mi

          Among the recent modifications introduced in the Public Pension System we can
          mention:
            .
                 Supreme Decree No 159-2002-EF (October 2002), granting the MEF (Muustry of
                 Economy and Finance) oversight and control powers over the recogrution and
                 rating of pension rights under Decree Law No20530 as performed by the Executing
                 Units. This Supreme Decree also determines that the Executing Units must publish
                 a list of all pensions paid greater than 1.5Tax Units (UnidadesImpositivas Tributanas,
                 UUj' and must inform the MEF and the General Comptroller of the Republic about
                 people joining and rejoining the pension fund system. In April 2004, Supreme
                 Decree No 048-2004-EF was passed in order to complement DS No 159-2002-EF.
                 This DS specifies the information required by the Mulistry of Economy and
           .     Finance to oversee and control the recognition, determination, rating and payment
                 of pensions under Decree Law No20530.
                 Supreme Decrees Nos. 026-2002-EF (February 2003) and 043-2002-EF (March
                 2003), determine that the agencies in charge of recognizing, determining, rating and
                 paying pension rights under Decree Law No 20530 must forward their statement of
                 payments and detailed information on beneficiaries and active members to the
                 Office of Social Security Normalization (Ojcina de Normali?acidn Previsional, OLVP).
                 Since the statements of payments for this Regune are managed by the Executing
                 Units that initially granted the pensions to the workers, the above-mentioned
                 regulations will allow for the centralization of information under Decree Law No.
                 20530. Presently, the MEF is undertahng a process of collection of such data.As of
                 Apd 2004, approximately 400 Executing Units had sent in the relevant information.
                 Furthermore, these Supreme Decrees determines that the afore-mentioned
                 Executing Units must perform an actuarial valuation of their pension liabhties in
          .      coordination with the ONP and must include the results of this valuation in their
                 account books.
                An agency has been charged with the responsibhty to develop social securitypolicy
                 and streamhe the Regune under Decree Law No 20530. Thus, through Ministerial
                Resolution No 326-2003-EF/15, these functions have been entrusted to the Macro
                Financial Studies Direction (Direccibn de Estudios Mamo Financieros or DEMF), at the
                General Direction for Social and Economic Affairs (Direcdn General de Asuntos
                Econdmico~ySocialees or DGAES) reporting to the Deputy Minister of Economy at the
                Muustry of Economy and Finances (MEF).

         Lkewise, as regards Decree Law No 20530, the National Executive Branch introduced
         twoamendments:

  c)  Creation of the Solidary Contribution and Fund for Social Security Assistance (Fandoy la
      Contribztcio'n Solidzriapara la Asistenria Previsional) -Law No 28046; enacted on July 31, 2003-,
      which set up an intangible fund to fmance the payment of pensions and the equalrzation of
      beneficiaries under Decree Law No 20530. This contribution is levied against all pensions
      higher than 14 tax units PI9 per annum, (S/.44,800) with the same income tax rate
     payable by natural persons. The regulatory framework of this Fund was adopted on a later
     date and encompasses:

- Legslative Decree No 948 (January2004), determining that the Consolidated Reserve Fund for
  Social Security (Fondo Consolidzdo de Resewas Previsionales, or F a ) is the agency in charge of
  managing the resources of the Fund. Furthermore, it determines that the National
  Superintendency of Taxation and Customs Admuustration (Superintendencia Nacional de



                                                 36

Administracibn Tbbzltaba, or SUNAT)is responsible for the a h s t r a t i o n of this contribution
and dreceive a percentage of the amounts collected in payment for ths activity. Likewise, ths
Legslative Decree defers to March 1,2004, the entry into force of the contribution.
Supreme Decree No 053-2004-EF (Apnl 2004), adopting the regulation of Law No 28046, and
determining that the Solidary Contribution must be withheld on a monthly basis by the Public
Sector agencies which are also responsible for the determination and payment of such sums. In
order to determine the amount to be withheld, a twelfth of 14UIT (S/.3,733) must be deducted
from the monthly pension and this amount ulll be subject to the Contribution, at the same
income tax rate payable by natural persons.
SuperintendencyResolution No 110-2004-SUNAT (May 2004), operationally implementing the
determination and payment of the Contribution scheme and regulating the means, manner,
terms, place and conchtions for the appropriate determination and payment of the Contribution
by the differentPublic Sector agencies in their capacityas withholdingagents.
Superintendency Resolution No 151-2004/SUNAT, which establishes that the obligation of
determining and paying said contributions will become effective on July 5 2004, date on which
the Contributions for March,Apnl, May andJune 2004 shall be paid.

d)  Gradually increase the rate of Contributions under Decree Law No 20530 (Law No 28047;
    enacted on July 31, 2003) from the 6% in force untd July 2003, as per the following
    procedure:




               Period                             Rate of Contribution
               As from 1stAugust 2003             13%
               As from 1stAugust 2006             20%
               As from 1stAurmst 2009             27%

    By increasing the Government's collection, these measures attempt to reduce the heavy
    fiscal burden created by the Regme set up under Decree Law No20530. Furthermore, it has
    been estimated that the Government subsidizes approximately 85% of the required capital
    of pension fund units created by h s system and these measures are intended to reduce this
    financial imbalance for those who are stdlactive enrollees.

    Finally, the National Executive Branch has sent to the Congress of the Republic a
    Constitutional Reform bdl that would remove roadblocks to the reform of this Regime.
    This procedure requires two votes by the Plenary Congress. The first vote was favorable
    and took place in the last week of May. Once the Constitutional Reform is adopted, a new
    Law of Constitutional Development must be drafted to regulate the afore-mentioned
    Regime. This Law would include, among other items, the removal of equallzation, the
    future reduction of surviving spouses' pensions to 50%, the elimination of future pensions
    to single daughters older than 21 years and the phased introduction of caps on present and
    future pensions higher than one tax unit PIT)

      The ConstitutionalReform bdl proposes the following:
 - Amendment of article 11, authorizing unitary adrmnistration of the pension systems
   managed by the Government.
- Amendment of article 103, so as to expressly provide in the Constitution that the legal
   principle applied in order to consider retroactivity of Laws is the principle of Adquired
   Rights.
 - Substitution of the First Final Provision in order to modify the constitutional treatment of
    the pension Regime under Decree Law No20530.


                                          37

 Thus, the proposed constitutionalreform will authorize the termination of the pension Regime under
 Decree Law No 20530 and the introduction of necessary changes such as a centrahzed management
 of the pension system and the removal of the equalization of wages and pensions, the phased
 introduction of caps for the higher pensions and new regulations on survivors' pensions, among
 other things. These reforms wdl exert a positive influence on society in general and on the Public
 Adrmnistration in particular because they will entail: improvements in the quality of public spending,
 the reduction of inequality by redirecting expendture and the introduction of reforms in the civil
 serviceand in the wage system for the public sector.


 ImprovingAccess to Quality Education and Health-Care Services

      3.          Better access to health-care services thepoorerpopulation

 Within the reform of the health-care sector, the Comprehensive Health Insurance (Segum Integral de
 Salud, or SIS) is the central agency in charge of admmistering a variety of existing programs whose
 main priority is the coverage of pregnant women, children under the age of 5, children and
 adolescents under the age of 18 and targeted adults and adults in a state of emergency. Accordmg to
 the Program, by December 2003, the number of beneficiaries was 7,571,302, the largest group being
 made up by the population aged 5 to 17 and the second largest group being children under the age of
 5.

 On the basis of the coverage targets established, all groups exceeded the goals set with the exception
 of the group aged 5 to 17 and targeted adults. It should be noted that in the last quarter of 2003 the
Mothers and Infants Component attained 118.01%vis-A-vis the target. Likewise, the coverage of the
Mothers and Infants Component for the 8 prioritizedRegonal Health Directorates (Direccidn de Salud,
or DIJA) reached 102.77% versus the 100% target, and services in rural and marginal urban areas
reached 79.5%vis-A-vis the programmed target of 75%.

The coverage target of the Comprehensive Health Insurance for the following three years (2004-
2006) is to serve 8.8, 11.5and 13.3&on             beneficiaries,respectively.

However, there is a caveat regardng this increase in coverage: given the shortage of avadable
resources, a higher cost-effectiveness and equity in the program d be achieved only when this
increase in coverage prioritizes groups and areas in urgent need of care. This should be combined
with a prudent management of resources that avoids negative fiscal impacts. It has been determined
that, during the first half of 2004, the SIS expenses exceeded its opening budget by 5%. Even though
a budgetary extension has been approved m a h g it possible for the SIS to discharge its obligations,
these financial problems should be considered in order to introduce changes in the program's
operation so as to make it sustainable.



     4.       ImprovedAccess toQualig Educational Services

The Central Payroll System (Sistema onico de PLaniLLas, or SUP) seeks to unify criteria for the correct
payment of compensation by using a standard information technology system. This is to be done
within the framework of an efficient public spendmg policy that proposes the removal of fraudulent
mechanisms in the preparation of payrolls. This System is underway in 20 Regonal Education
Boards, (Dimnones Regionales de Edacacidn, or DRE) with 77.62% already implemented and 15.91%
under process of implementation. It is estimated that over 90% of Intermedate Management
Instances ('Instancz'aJ Intermedias de Gestibn) will be implemented in the whole country by July 2004;


                                                       38

 several payroll processing centers could see ths implementation delayed on account of geographic
 dispersion.

 The School Positions A h s t r a t i o n System (Sistema de Administraridn de Plaqas) (Nexus) has been
 developed to make a proper allocation of school positions at national educational centers and to
 underpin the payments made through the SUP, thus correcting any improper payments made untd
 now. The Nexus system is deployed in 52% of the national jurisdictions at the following 11regions:
 Lima, Lima Province, Callao, Piura, La Libertad, Tumbes, Lambayeque, Ica, Arequipa, Apurimac and
 Amazonas. By July 2004, the system should be deployed in 13 more regions, thus reaching a 60%
 coverage.

 By mid September 2004, the Wnistry of Education (MED) should have completed the integrated
 deployment of the SUP and the Nexus system as per the provisions of Law No. 28197. It should be
 noted that ths deployment does not include the stage of oversight and follow-up which d be
 started in the second quarter of 2004.

 As regards the Progressive Implementation of the Data Base through the Integrated Public Sector
 Financial Management Information System (SistemaIntegrado de Administracidn Financiera del Sector
 l'ziblica, or SLAF-SP), Law No. 28254 establishes that the database dbecome operational according
 to a phased deployment schedule at the units using the respective information technology medium
included in the SMF-SP project managed by the MEF, whch covers permanent staff, h e d
personnel, pensioners and employers.

The following plan was developed for the Merit and Performance Incentive System:


            c)       A Pilot Plan of Special Bonuses for Rural Area teachers intended to study the impact
               of incentives, given the nature of the teachers' work. The 2003 Pilot Plan covered in
               excess of 1000 teachers during 2004. The 2004 Pilot Plan continued these efforts,
               benefiting a total of 1821 teachers. However, the design of the Pilot Plan for 2004
               underwent certain adjustments based on the experience gleaned from the 2003 Pilot Plan.
               Among the changes introduced in the 2004 Pilot Plan is the obligation of taking tests at
               the beginning and the end of the school year in order to pay a bonus, in the future, to
               those teachers whose pupils show a signzjcant dzference between these two tests. Use of
               these tests in 2004 wdl allow to evaluate whether these tools, alreadyvalidated in the rural
               areas, should be employed in other bonus payment processes, so as to take into account
               not only teacher attendance but also the differential level of learning achieved by the
               students.

            d) A Monitoring System,based on the parents' checking of teachers' attendance three times
               a day. Responsibllity for the Monitoring System was entrusted to the Institutional
               Education Council (Constjo Edztcativo Institutional, or CEI) of each educational institution.
               If such institution had no CEI, assistance was provided for its creation. During 2004,
               certain adjustments were introduced in the Monitoring System in close coordination with
               the Group for Analysis and Development (Gmpo deAndhsispara el Desamllo, or GRADE)
               team.



Improving Governance: increased transparency and participation of the poor

3.    Monitoring and evaluationofsoiialprogramswith socialpar;ticipation




                                                  39

      Two studles on society's perception were recently made public: i) the Governance, Corruption
      and Civil Participation Module flbdulo de Gobemabilidad,Compczo'ny Partir@aao'n Ciududana)of the
      National Household Survey 20O2-IV7performed by the National Statistics and Data Processing
      Institute (Instituto LVacional de Estadistica e Infoma'tica, or INEI), ii) the survey on the Use of the
      Report Card within Social Programs undertaken by the CUANTO Institute and financed by the
      World Bank.

      A proposal was prepared regardmg indicators related to policies and priorities for transparency
      and participation,whch should be subjected to consultation,validation by, and completion with,
      the various social segmentsin order to have a model to be used when analyzingand reporting on
      the monitoring and evaluation of transparencyand participation in the public sector.

      The ftrst version of a Portal for User-Friendly Queries has been developed. Ths portal is
      provided with such information on the budgetary and financial performance of the Executing
      Units (UnidadesEjeczltoras, or UE) of the Central Government as is recorded in the SIAF-SP, as
      well as with information on the main Protected Social Programs,in a user-friendly environment.
      It shows the Basic Reports that can be exported to spread-sheets and may be consulted at
      htm://transDarencia-economica.mef.pob.De/amipable/default.asp

      The Portal for User-Friendly Queries includes a tab that allows to track the expenditure-related
      physical goals of three programs: the Targeted National Nutrition Program ("rograma Narional de
     Alimentacidn, or PRONAA), the Integrated Insurance System (Sistema Integrado de Seguro, or SIS)
      and theA Trabajar UrbanoProgram.

      Finally, the Fiscal Prudence and Transparency Law No 27245g, now known as the Fiscal
     Responsibihty and TransparencyLaw by virtue of the provisions of Law No 27958 -enacted on
      May 5, 2003- whch amended Law No 27245, sets down the guidehes for an improved
     management of public finances through fiscal prudence and transparency, and creates the Fiscal
     Stabhation Fund to promote economic stabhty. To this end, in chapter 11,it is established that
      the Wnistry of Economy and Finances (MEF) shall prepare and publish, on a yearly basis, the
     Multiyear MacroeconomicFramework (MMM) whch must include macroeconomic projections
     for the year that is being budgeted and the following twoyears.

 4. Enhanced tranpareng and eflcz'enyingovernmentprocurement and strengthening oftbe Government'sabiL9 to
   jgbt comption

     The Supreme Council on Government Contracting and Procurement (Consejo Superior de
     ContratacianesyAdquiszriones ddEstado, or CONSUCODE) has the power to penahze such bidders
     and contractors as fad to comply with the provisions of the Statutory Regulation of the National
     Supplementary Food Assistance Program Law No 27767 ("mgrama Naczonal Complementario de
    Asistencia Alimentaria), whose goal is to set the standards regulating the mandatory purchase of
     national food products of agricultural and hydrobiologic origin, by the Food Support Program
     and the Social Compensation Program and by all the governmental agencies dlsbursing public
     monies. Likewise, through the Government Contracting and Procurement Tribunal, the
     CONSUCODE has the power to impose sanctions for non-compliance with the contractual
     stipulationsofthe StatutoryRegulation.

    Within its jurisdlction, CONSUCODE may issue any rules needed to supplement the Regulation
    and take any measure deemed necessary to oversee compliance. Resolutions and orders issued



9Published on December 27,1999



                                                     40

    by CONSUCODE are within its a h s t r a t i v e authority and must be adhered to by all
    governmentalagencies.




V.      Lessons Learned

       c. Regardmg the performance of the Bank
           In spite of some dlfferences of opinion regarding the Government's position during the
           execution of thls program -which are quite typical in these circumstances -,in general
           the Government has expressed its satisfaction with the performance of the World Bank
           during the third stage of the ProgrammaticSocial Reform Loan.

           As an issue to be dlscussed in more depth and whch pertains both to the performance
           of the Bank and of the Beneficiary, it should be noted that, in the case of the PRSL the
           diversity of subjects may make monitoring difficult and scatter efforts over a number of
           policies in the agenda. To this end, it would be appropriate to consider focusing on a
           smaller number of better-related issues, providing a clearer order of priority of such
           policies.

           Furthermore, it should be mentioned that the Multiyear Macroeconomic Framework
           (MMM) for 2005-2007 and the Supreme Decree 009-2004-PCM adopted last February,
           reflect the political direction approved by the Council of i'l\/linisters.More than that, the
          MMM is aligned with the Declaration of the National Agreement Forum (Apnl 19,
           2004) by assigning priority to actions for the protection of childhood. These efforts on
           the part of the Government to focus its priorities must be supported by the Bank to
          achieve a convergence of efforts in the same direction.

       d. Regardmg the performance of the Beneficiary
          Difficulties to meet commitments have been encountered all along the operation. At
          least two weaknesses can be detected which are not exclusive to the Peruvian social
          sectors but crosscut the government departments: an absence of clear policy guidelmes
          and institutional weakness. As regards the first item, progress has been made in setting a
          social agenda that clarifies the guidehes and priorities in ths area. An institutional
          weakness, on the other hand, is detected in several areas, especially those related to
          human resources (for instance, high turnover).

          In ths context, adjustment programs play an important role as tools for reaching
          consensus in the medlum term. Nevertheless, it should be made clear that the sequence
          to be followed is to set an agenda and translate it into a policy matrix. Thus, given the
          weakness of present tools and windows of opportunity, these operations help build
          agendas.

Lima,July 2004




                                              41

