Page  1
1 
26809rev 
 
PERU 
PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM III LOAN  
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
 
Project Name:  
 
Programmatic Social Reform III Loan 
 
Region
: 
 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
Sector
:    Multi-sector 
 
Task Manager
: 
  Daniel 
Cotlear 
 
 
Project ID Number
:  
PE-P078951-LEN-BB 
 
Borrower
: 
 
 
The Republic of Peru 
 
Guarantor
: 
  Not 
applicable 
 
Implementing Agency
:  
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Environmental Category
: 
Not applicable (structural adjustment operation) 
 
Date PID prepared
: 
 
October 3, 2003  
 
Projected Board Date
:  
November 11, 2003  
 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background
: 
 
The arrival of President Toledo has strengthened democracy in Peru.  After a decade of the Fujimori 
regime and a short transitional government, President Toledo was elected to office amidst an economic 
recession. Beginning its period in July 2001, the new government received support from the international 
community at the Madrid Consultative Group Meeting in October 2001, signed a two-year Stand-By 
Agreement with the IMF in February 2002, and a National Agreement (“
Acuerdo Nacional
”) to catalyze 
consensus between the major political parties, unions and civil society on an ambitious poverty reduction 
agenda supported by fiscal discipline and decentralization in July 2002. 
 
Though the economy is stable and growing, the Government’s agenda continues to face difficult political 
challenges. Political tensions have risen, but the administration has so far maintained legislative support 
for keeping the reform program on track.  By end-2002, a regional protest in Arequipa stopped the 
privatization of two power plants.  In May 2003, the country entered into a state of emergency to deal 
with a strike by public sector workers and agriculture producers.  Recently, elected regional governments 
are pressing for greater transfers, some remain opposed while others are reaching a more realistic 
approach, looking for ways to balance their finances with their own initiative.  Nevertheless, the 
Government has maintained fiscal responsibility.  In April it passed a revised Law of Fiscal Prudence and 
Transparency; and in June-July, it approved tax and spending measures to finance the increased wages, 
rather than seeking a higher deficit.  
 
Page  2
2 
A new Cabinet was appointed in July.  The new Prime Minister, Beatriz Merino, and her team have 
brought renewed strength to the Government’s reform program.  Her plan is comprehensive and 
ambitious and includes a new system of concessions that would be attractive to the regional governments, 
a tax reform and fiscal measures to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the reform process, and the merging 
and decentralization of the social programs, including the introduction of conditioned transfers, 
benchmarks and performance management at the subnational level.  She also declared a state of 
emergency in the Education Sector.  The polls have reacted very favorably to the new Cabinet, giving it 
approval ratings of over 50 percent.  The international markets have also reacted favorably: by end-
August, the EMBI fell to its lowest historic level during the present administration: 357 basis points. 
 
Macroeconomic Conditions and Outlook 
The political environment has not affected the continued improvement of the economy. 
 In 2002, a 
year of deep recession for Latin America (average GDP growth was -1.2 percent), Peru’s growth was 
highest in the region.  Led by mining, manufacturing and construction, real GDP grew 5.3 percent (nearly 
two points above the original forecasts of 3.5 percent).  In 2003, GDP growth in the non-primary sectors 
slowed down in April–May, but improved in June, indicating that the projected 4 percent growth is likely 
to be achieved.  The annual inflation rate at 1.5 percent (end-of period) was the second lowest in the 
region in 2002.  In July 2003, following a four month consecutive decline, inflation was at 2 percent year 
over year; near the bottom of the Central Bank’s target range of 1.5–3.5 percent for 2003.  International 
reserves are adequate—more than twice the level of short term external debt liabilities—and increasing 
due to a dynamic export performance and strong private capital—namely foreign direct investment—
inflows into sizable mining investment projects, which put moderate pressure on the 
Nuevo Sol
 to 
appreciate.  Supported by declining international interest rates, spreads on local and dollar interest rates 
remain stable.  The unemployment rate shows a moderate declining trend since March, although 
unemployment in Lima has not fallen and most employment increases have been concentrated in large 
firms.
1
 
The economic program signed under the Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF is on track and 
international markets remain confident that it will continue on sound course
.  All Stand-by 
performance criteria and most structural benchmarks were met for the end of June.  Structural 
benchmarks include a revised Fiscal Prudence and Transparency Law (FPTL), new proposed legislation 
on tax reform (including the elimination of regional and sectoral tax exemptions), and legislation on fiscal 
decentralization.  Negotiations for a new Arrangement would start late this year.  EMBI spreads on 
Peruvian external bonds have followed a declining trend, linked to domestic political events: it decreased 
from a peak 820 basis points in August 2002 to 420 basis points last May, then increased to 490 basis 
points following the events that led to the Cabinet reshuffle last July, and bottomed down again to a 
historic low level of 357 end-August following new Prime Minister Merino’s announcement of “strict 
austerity” as general policy, and consolidation of the reform of the state, tax, social security, 
decentralization and education as specific policy priorities.  Currently, Peru’s spreads are in line with 
those of Mexico and Panama.  
A marked improvement in external conditions—terms of trade and capital inflows—have 
contributed to Peru’s economic recovery, healthy external balances and solid reserve position.
   
Supported by a 2.5 percent increase in the terms of trade, due to increasing mineral prices and falling oil 
prices, exports grew 9.1 percent in 2002 and imports 2.3 percent, a trend that continued up to the first 
semester of 2003.  As a result, the current account deficit decreased to about 2 percent of GDP in 2002.  
Significant public and private capital inflows of about US$1 billion also contributed to an increase in 
gross international reserves of about US$832 million in 2002.  Inflows remained strong as of mid-2003. 
Page  3
3 
Fiscal balances are also improving based on two pillars: tax reform and austere expenditure 
policies.
  A projected small primary surplus for 2003, will be the first since 1998, and the 2 percent of 
GDP fiscal deficit target of the Non-Financial Public Sector (NFPS) (consistent with a combined fiscal 
deficit of 1.9 percent of GDP), as contained in the FPTL, is estimated to be met this year for the first time.  
These achievements are partly the outcome of a gradual tax reform that aims to increase revenues, widen 
the tax base and give the tax collection agency strengthened powers to reduce tax evasion.  Following 
several administrative tax reform measures adopted in 2002, Congress approved a tax package on July 
2003, including a one-percentage point VAT rate increase through end-2004, and excise taxes hikes on 
alcoholic and petroleum products.  Tax measures have led to a marked improvement in the tax ratio, 
which was close to 13 percent of GDP in the first quarter of 2003, and projected to reach 12.7 percent of 
GDP by end-2003.  Improving fiscal balances also result from austere expenditure policies.  These 
include cuts in the President’s salary by 30 percent, ministers’ salaries by 20 percent and other public 
officials between 10-30 percent depending on the salary earned.  Goods and services expenditures were 
also reduced by 5 percent.  The Government has requested extraordinary powers to Congress to approve 
the last set of tax reform measures announced in late July,
1
 and resisted populist pressures for additional 
spending from newly created regional governments in the draft budget law for 2004.  Both actions are 
essential to meet a projected 1.5 percent of GDP fiscal deficit target of the NFPS, as required by the 
revamped Fiscal Responsibility Law for 2004. 
 
Authorities have adopted debt management measures to increase Peru’s medium term debt 
sustainability
.  Although Peru’s debt is high, vulnerability indicators have improved over the past few 
years.  Public debt ratios, in particular, have decreased: the public sector debt ratio is estimated to 
decrease from 46.1 percent of GDP in 2002 to 44.3 percent of GDP in 2003; and, following a successful 
Brady bond debt buyback of US$923 million in February 2002, the public external debt service ratio will 
decrease from 31.6 percent of exports in 2002 to 22.0 percent of exports in 2003.  The public debt profile 
makes Peru less vulnerable to sudden changes in investor sentiment compared to other Latin American 
emerging markets: external debt accounts for about 78 percent and is virtually all medium and long term, 
with almost three-quarters committed to multilateral and bilateral creditors.  Moreover, international 
reserves ratios are stable and increasing, and the share of foreign currency deposits in total banking 
deposits is stable.  In addition, the economy is buffered by a fiscal consolidation, a managed floating 
exchange rate regime, a well capitalized banking system, diversified trade links and limited dependence 
on financing from international capital markets.  In the medium term, and according to the revised Multi-
Annual Macroeconomic Framework (
Marco Macroeconómico Multianual
—MMM in Spanish), public 
debt would decrease to a sound benchmark of 40 percent of GDP by 2006.  Bank debt sustainability 
analysis confirms that Peru could achieve this benchmark if it continues to have growth rates above 4 
percent and obtains primary fiscal surpluses close to 1 percent of GDP in 2005–06.
2
 
Consolidation of Peru’s medium-term fiscal stance relies on external financing
.  Peru requires a 
minimum external fiscal support of US$1.5 billion during the period 2003-05.  Assuming compliance 
with the fiscal deficit targets of the FTRL and growth of 4 percent of GDP, Peru’s financing needs are 
approximately US$2.7 billion in 2003, of which about 55 percent correspond to public debt amortization.  
Projected external sources of financing represent about 80 percent (US$1.9 billion) of total needs, of 
which US$1.5 billion is expected to be budget support.  The estimated increase in financing needs in the 
next two years is due to two factors: (i) scheduled amortization payments have an additional bump of 
                                                
 
1
.  Key pending measures include the elimination of regional and sectoral tax exemptions, the re-launching of the    
single unified minimum tax for small and medium firms, and further administrative measures to strengthen 
income tax administration.  The reform could also lower the VAT rate from 19 percent to 18 percent (reversing 
the recent rise), but imposing a financial transactions tax, although only for transactions above a certain amount. 
2
.  The World Bank and the Interamerican Development Bank (2003), Restoring Fiscal Discipline for Poverty 
Reduction in Peru, A Public Expenditure Review
, Washington DC. 
Page  4
4 
about US$500 million in 2005, bringing the share of public debt amortization in total financing needs to 
about 75 percent in 2005; and (ii) projected sources have a shortfall from the phasing out of privatization 
revenues. Peru’s debt management strategy under the revised 
Marco Macroeconómico Multianual
 
(MMM) is based on minimizing the cost of new borrowing and on extending maturity through 
multilateral financing.  Multilateral debt is about 450 basis points below market rates, and additional 
domestic debt is not a cheaper substitute for multilateral financing and would worsen Peru’s repayment 
profile.  As domestic interest rates—on 
nuevos soles
 or dollars—are substantially higher than those from 
multilateral financing, and as the domestic market remains reluctant to absorb notes beyond a three-year 
horizon—which means that any bond issued in 2003 would likely be repaid in 2005—further domestic 
debt would only complicate an already difficult debt amortization profile scheduled for that year.  
 
Poverty and social indicators 
The economic growth of 2002 had a positive effect on reducing poverty.  The poverty and extreme 
poverty rates diminished by about 1 percent in 2002, while unemployment has fallen from about 10 
percent to just over 9 percent between 2000 and 2003. The poverty rate in Peru for 2001 was estimated at 
about 55 percent and extreme poverty at about 25 percent.   
Poverty is much higher in the rural areas, where it reaches about 78 percent and where extreme poverty is 
about 50 percent (versus 42 percent poverty rate and 10 percent extreme poverty rate in urban areas).  
Poverty also varies greatly within regions, with 
Sierra
 (mountain) and S
elva
 (jungle) regions much poorer 
than the 
Costa
 (coastal) region and Lima, the capital city.  More than half of the extreme poor live in the 
rural 
Sierra
. 
Rural areas also have worse health and education indicators than urban areas, with much higher rates of 
chronic malnutrition (40 percent vs. 13 percent), infant mortality (45 per thousand vs. 24 per thousand) 
and lower net attendance rates to secondary school (74 percent vs. 44 percent).  Indigenous people, who 
account for 15 percent of the population and live mostly in rural areas, suffer from exclusion, 
discrimination and poverty rates of around 70 percent.  Indigenous people and rural inhabitants also have 
less access to basic services such as water and sanitation, justice or public security.  
Many of the extreme poor work in agriculture and fishing (80 percent), making them particularly 
vulnerable to climate shocks.  Thirty percent of households report to have been subject to exogenous 
shock in the last year, according to 2001 ENAHO household survey.  Natural phenomena such as the El 
Niño event, droughts or avalanches affect some areas of the country almost every year. 
In contrast, health indicators have improved substantially in recent years, although they remain below the 
average for countries of Peru’s income level.  Infant mortality rate was 33 per thousand in 2000, down 
from 60 per thousand in 1991.  Half of the infant mortality occurs in the first month of life, and is 
connected to poor birth conditions. Chronic malnutrition (stunting) for children under 5 was 25 percent in 
2000, down from 36.5 percent in 1991.  
Education indicators have also improved. Access to basic education is widespread, with a primary 
attendance rate of over 90 percent, and coverage of secondary education continues to increase despite the 
recent recession. Adult illiteracy rates are still high (26 percent in rural areas) but mostly concentrated in 
older people.  However, education quality and outcomes are low, comparing poorly with other LAC 
countries, because of low effective hours of instruction, inadequate learning materials and poor teacher 
quality and motivation.  
The quality of other social services has improved as well, although there is still room for further gains. A 
recent nationwide survey rated the quality of services of five social programs between 3.2 and 3.6 in a 1 
Page  5
5 
to 5 scale (with 5 being the highest score). As well, only 5.2 percent of people surveyed reported being 
the victim of corruption (paid a bribe or similar), and only 12 percent thought that hospital services were 
“bad”.   
Recent trends in Social Expenditure 
Since 2001, the Transition and the Toledo Governments have emphasized the importance of increasing 
social expenditure and of bringing budget protection to priority social programs. Both the National 
Agreement and the 
Bases para la
 
Estrategia para la Superación de la Pobreza
 call for a gradual and 
sustained increase in social expenditure.  The National Dialogue proposes a minimum annual increase of 
0.25 percent of GDP in the national budget to education, until it reaches a benchmark 6 percent of GDP.
3
  
In a similar vein, the 
Bases para la Estrategia para la Superación de la Pobreza
 calls for a 2 percent of 
GDP increase in the overall budget assigned to social expenditures by 2010.  Recognizing these targets 
are ambitious and subject to budget constraints derived from fiscal sustainability, the 
Estrategia
 also calls 
for a significant restructuring of poverty alleviation programs in order to make them more efficient and 
effective. 
The share of social expenditure to GDP, after collapsing during the hyperinflation period of the 1980s, 
recuperated sharply from 3.9 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.8 percent of GDP in 2000.  The three broad 
components (“functions”) of social expenditures in the Peruvian budget (education, health and social 
assistance) have been steadily increasing.  In recent years, this share has continued increasing, albeit at a 
more moderate pace, reaching a budget allocation equivalent to 7.1 percent of GDP in the 2003 budget.  
This is a remarkable achievement during a period of fiscal retrenchment that reduced government non-
interest expenditure from 18.4 percent of GDP in 2000 to 17.0 percent of GDP in 2003, and cut the fiscal 
deficit by a third. 
The priority social programs (PSPs) are the main source of the increase in the social budget, rising from 
0.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 1.2 percent of GDP in 2003. PSPs comprise the expenditures for basic 
education, health and community assistance, that are oriented to expenditures and critical inputs such as 
textbooks and medicines, rather than the payment of salaries or pensions.  In this way, the Peruvian 
government has been protecting and expanding the expenditures that are more easily cut during crisis, and 
that play a crucial role in improving the quality of basic services to the poor. 
Improving targeting in education and health is a long-term task, as relocating schools or health clinics is 
very difficult, and new facilities are put in place gradually.  However, the Peruvian government is aiming 
to improve targeting with programs such as the 
Seguro Integral de Salud (SIS)
, that guarantees free access 
to a package of health services mostly for mothers and children, and that puts emphasis in the poorest 
departments.  In education, a WB-financed rural education project targeting high-poverty rural areas has 
recently been approved.  Other social programs, such as food-aid programs and rural infrastructure 
programs, are much more flexible.  These programs have improved targeting in the past years: 
expenditures of food-aid programs in the first quintile of districts  have gone up from 30 percent in 2002 
to 35 percent in 2003 and 38 percent in the 2004 budget. 
 
                                                
 
3
.    The recently approved General Education Law also states the 6 percent of GDP target. 
Page  6
6 
 
2. Objectives: 
 
The principal objective of PSRL III is to continue to support Peru’s medium-term social reform program.  
While building on the progress achieved under PSRL I and II, the third and fourth phases of the reform 
will put emphasis on supporting the implementation of the social development strategy and adapting it to 
the new context of decentralization.  The priority would be to ensure that resources are being allocated for 
and getting to the poor population, and preventing the deterioration and backtracking in social programs 
that have occurred in other countries at the time of decentralization.  Specific objectives of PSRL III are 
to help:  
\01\02
Consolidate a pro-poor social expenditure regime and adequate social protection programs for the 
poor in a decentralized environment, 
\01\02
Continue to improve access of the poor to basic health care and education through the establishment 
of new incentives for service providers and the development of a system of explicit targets for 
subnational governments; 
\01\02
Continue to improve transparency in social programs and expenditures and empower beneficiaries to 
participate in the design and implementation of priority social programs. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank’s Involvement: 
 
In its original design, the PSRL series would have concluded with a consolidation of social and anti-
poverty reforms in PSRL III.  What was not foreseen at the time was the pace at which decentralization 
would be implemented and the impact it would have on the social sectors. Starting in mid-2002, 
legislation has been passed giving regional governments and municipalities significant responsibilities 
and funding for social programs, also regional authorities have been elected for the first time.  A group of 
social programs are being transferred to municipal and regional governments in 2003, and more programs 
and funds will be transferred in 2004.  In this more challenging context, the Government and the Bank 
have agreed that the amount of the third PSRL be increased to US$150 million, and that a fourth PSRL 
will be added to the program to consolidate the social reform program in a decentralized context.
 
 
4. Description: 
 
Within the context of decentralization, new areas of reform not previously foreseen have been added to 
PSRL3: (i) reform of pension systems to improve the overall targeting of social expenditures; (ii) a 
definition of the model for the decentralization of the food aid programs; and (iii) passage of legislation 
providing new institutional safeguards to prevent diversion of funds from Priority Social Programs (PSPs) 
in the context of decentralization.  
 
The main achievements of PSRL3 are the following
: 
Component I: Improve the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures:
 
\01\02
The Priority Social Programs (PSPs) are being protected despite pressures arising from demands for 
increased teacher and health worker salaries and from new administrative needs linked to 
decentralization; 
\01\02
Targeting of several key anti-poverty programs has improved;  
\01\02
Legislation has been approved to reduce untargeted subsidies to high income pensioners; 
\01\02
Legislation presented to Congress includes the decentralization of food aid programs with measures 
to improve targeting and performance-management. 
 
Page  7
7 
 
Component 2: Improve the access of the poor to health and education programs
 
\01\02
Significant gains in health care coverage have been obtained and pro-poor reforms in health policy 
are becoming mainstreamed; 
\01\02
Progress has been made in developing the education sector’s human resources management system. 
 
Component 3: Improve the transparency and social oversight 
of resource allocation 
\01\02
Transparency has improved with the widespread implementation of a user-friendly information 
system that allows beneficiaries to monitor budgets and expenditures for all PSPs and physical goals 
and results for a group of PSPs; 
\01\02
Social Participation was strengthened by the launch of user satisfaction scorecards and the 
institutionalization of user satisfaction surveys and by the approval of new Transparency Legislation. 
 
5. Financing: 
 
Source (Total US$M)
 
IBRD ( US$150.0 million) 
Total Project Cost: US$150.0 million 
 
6. Environmental 
Aspects: 
 
Since this is an adjustment Loan an environmental assessment and resettlement action plan are not 
applicable
.  
 
 
7. Project 
Risks: 
 
The PSRL III faces the following risks: 
 
Fiscal Sustainability Risks: 
\01\02
Insufficient Tax Reform 
\01\02
Pressure for high spending 
\01\02
Inadequate Fiscal Decentralization Framework 
 
PSPs lose Priority in the Context of decentralization and there is backtracking in the gains achieved 
in: 
\01\02
Protecting the budgets of PSPs 
\01\02
Geographical Targeting 
\01\02
Efficiency: Local targeting efforts on basic health and education. Results orientation 
\01\02
Monitoring and Evaluation/Transparency/Participation/Quality 
\01\02
Implementation capacity of municipalities and MIMDES 
 
Commitment to Reforms: 
\01\02
Ownership by the new cabinet 
\01\02
The link between MEF and CIAS continues to be weak and is not effective to guide policy reform in 
the social sectors. 
Page  8
8 
\01\02
Pensions.  
Cedula Viva 
is reopened (be the Constitutional Tribunal or by pressures from sub-national 
authorities) 
 
 
 
8. Contact 
Point: 
 
Task Manager 
Daniel Cotlear
 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 473-5083 
Fax:  (202) 522-0050
 
 
 
9. Public 
Information 
Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
 
 
Note:  This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components may not necessarily be included in 
the final project. 
 
Cleared by: Daniel Cotlear, Sector Leader, LCC6C
 
