Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7200 - PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Social Reform Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 17, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7200 - PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 17, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated October 
6, 2003 describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment and social reform in the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 (C) 
on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making a loan in one 
tranche (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“A Trabajar” 
means bot
h
of
the Borrower’s programs 
“A Trabajar 
Rural” 
and 
“A Trabajar Urbano”; 
(b) 
“A Trabajar Rural” 
means the Borrower’s Rural Workfare Program;
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Cédula Viva”
 means the pension system for civil service regulated by 
the Borrower’s Law No. 20530; 
(d) “CGR
”
or
“Contraloría General de la República”
 means the Borrower’s 
supreme audit institution; 
(e) 
“
CONSUCODE
”
or
“Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y 
Adquisiciones del Estado”
 means the National Council for Contracts and Procurement; 
(f) 
“
Deposit Account
”
means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(g) 
“
DGAES
”
or
“Dirección General de Asuntos Económicos y Sociales”
 
means the Borrower’s General Directorate for Economic and Social Affairs; 
(h) 
“
PRONAA
”
or
“Programa Nacional de Asistencia Alimentaria”
 means 
the Borrower’s National Food Assistance Program; 
(i) 
“
PSP
”
means each of the Borrower’s following six priority social 
programs: Initial Education, Primary Education, Secondary Education, Individual Health, 
Community Health and Social and Community Assistance; 
(j) 
“
SIAF
”
or
“Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera”
 means 
the Borrower’s Integrated Financial Administration System; 
 (k) 
“
SIS
”
or
“Seguro Integral de Salud”
 means the Borrower’s Integral 
Health Insurance for priority groups; 
(l) 
“Trabajar Urbano” 
means the Borrower’s Urban Workfare Program. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to One Hundred 
Fifty Million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $148,500,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has made a request, the Borrower 
shall pay to the Bank any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.10. The Director of Public Credit, and any person whom he or she shall 
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
[four] months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date February 16, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(511) 426-8500 or 
(511) 426-9822 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/Jaime Quijandría Salmón 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/Marcelo Giugale 
Acting Regional Vice President  
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious stones, 
 
unworked or worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or 
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.  expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date 
(Expressed as a %) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2012 through January 15, 2017 
8.33% 
 
On July 15, 2017 
8.37% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
(1) 
With respect to the Borrower’s 2002 budget approved by the Borrower’s 
legislative branch and dated December 5, 2001 (Law No. 27573), at least 95% of 
amounts allocated to education, culture, health, sanitation and social assistance 
were executed and the allocations for said sector functions in the Borrower’s 
2003 budget approved by the Borrower’s legislative branch and dated December 
5, 2002 were established at levels higher than their 2002 executed amounts as 
adjusted in real terms. 
 
(2) 
With respect to the Borrower’s 2002 budget approved by the Borrower’s 
legislative branch and dated December 5, 2001, the total aggregate allocation for 
all PSPs was executed as planned and for each of said PSP, under performance 
did not exceed 50% of the initial allocation. 
 
(3) 
In the Borrower’s 2004 budget submitted for approval to the Borrower’s 
legislative branch on August 30, 2003, measures are proposed to prevent 
diversion of funds from the PSPs to civil service payrolls and benefits. 
 
(4) In 
2002, 
A
Trabajar
 was adequately targeted, an evaluation report on said 
program was carried out, publicly debated and published and a separate study on 
the impact of the wages paid under 
A
Trabajar Rural
 was carried out. 
 
(5) 
The Borrower’s law related to programmatic transfers of resources to sub-
national governments establishing adequate rules for the decentralization of food 
programs was submitted to Borrower’s legislative branch for its approval, and in 
the Borrower’s 2004 budget submitted for approval to the Borrower’s legislative 
branch on August 30, 2003 allocations are proposed to distribute the food-aid 
funding according to a pro-poor formula. 
 
(6) 
A Ministerial Resolution was approved and published in order to give DGAES 
responsibility over pension policy making. 
 
(7) 
The Borrower’s legislative branch has approved and published two laws in order 
to create a pension assistance contribution and to improve the current 
Cédula 
Viva
 pension system. 
 
(8) 
During 2002, SIS exceeded target coverage agreed with the Bank and the 
Borrower’s 2004 budget submitted for approval to the Borrower’s legislative 
branch on August 30, 2003 prohibits the diversion of funds assigned to primary 
and secondary care in favor of higher complexity care. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
(9) 
The Borrower’s administrative treatment of human resources in education has 
been substantially improved and covers 51% of teachers for the unified payroll 
system. 
 
(10) 
The Borrower is developing a hardship and merit incentives system through: (a) a 
pilot program currently under implementation with an agreed design structure 
and baseline in order to monitor and evaluate hardship and merit incentives for 
1,000 rural teachers including detailed indicators; and (b) the first report of a 
study to design new merit incentives applicable to the education sector has been 
delivered. 
 
(11) 
The Borrower has carried out, presented and publicly discussed a report on a 
pilot system to assess users’ satisfaction in relation to selected services of the 
PSPs and the Borrower’s Law on transparency and access to public information, 
(
Ley 
No 27806 dated April 24, 2003 as modified ) and its related regulations 
were approved and published.  
 
(12) 
The Borrower has made SIAF available through an internet portal “
Consulta 
Amigable
”
which provides information on the Borrower’s budget for all public 
programs as well as data on actual spending and physical progress achieved for 
PRONAA, SIS and 
A
Trabajar Urbano
.
(13) 
CGR and CONSUCODE issued oversight and supervision regulations 
concerning public procurement for mandatory use by all public agencies. 
 
