Documrnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFCaAL USE ONLY
Repq No.
136tC(
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1523-IN)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1523-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
Currency Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year Average (1984):              US$1.00 = Rs.11.36
Intervening Year Average (1985-92):         US$1.00 = Rs.16.78
Completion Year Average (1993):*            US$1.00 = Rs.29.25
* Average of January to May 1993
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AEO               Agricultural Extension Officer
AAO               Assistant Agricultural Officer
CF                Contact Farmers
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DOA               Department of Agricultural
DOE               Directorate of Extension (of Ministry of Agriculture)
FG                Farmer Groups
FAO/CP            Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FSC               Farmer Service Centers
GOI               Government of India
MANAGE            Management of Agricultural Extension
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA               Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP              National Agricultural Extension Project
NDO               New Delhi Office (of the World Bank)
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SAU               State Agricultural University
SDR               Special Drawing Right
SMS               Subject Matter Specialist
T&V               Training and Visit
VEW               Village Extension Worker
WB                World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WasNngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operaton. Evaluaton
November 10, 1994
MEMOIRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEN
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
National Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 1523-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India-National Agricultural Extension Project
(Credit 1523-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower did not provide Part HI.
The project was extended three times and closed in 1993, the same closing year as the National
Agricultural Extension Project II (Cr. 1569).
The project was to strengthen the T&V extension system previously introduced in Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan, to improve the capacity of central agencies to provide training and
guidance to the states, and to finance special studies. Similar activities were also implemented in the state
of Uttar Pradesh with savings from changes in local currency value.
Project outcome is mixed. The project did help broaden the scope of extension advice to
non-grain crops. Many physical targets were achieved, with housing construction for village workers the
major exception. The capabilities of the central extension and training agencies improved, and studies
were completed. However, difficulties occurred with meeting-and maintaining-expected staffing levels,
achieving the skill levels expected of subject matter specialists, and preventing training and field visits
from becoming routine occurrences with limited usefulness. Studies were completed too late to influence
this or the second project. This experience confirms the findings of previous audits and a recent study
(Report No. 13000) by OED.
The PCR calls for a change in strategy, with more attention to farming systems, to the needs
of women and other disadvantaged farmers, and to participation of farmers in extension processes and
feedback to research. The same points had been raised in the SAR of the project reviewed, but not
specifically addressed in its implementation strategy. Overall, the project outcome is rated as marginally
satisfactory, institutional development as substantial and sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR provides a detailed review of project implementation. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documen has a restricted dstribuon and may be used by redpients only In the performance of
their officil dutes Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1523-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                    .................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................. iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................................1
1. Project Identity.                                                                     1
2. Background.                                                                           1
3. Project Objectives and Description                            .2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                      3
5. Project Implementation.                                                               4
6. Project Results.                                                                      7
7. Project Sustainability.                                                               8
8. Bank Performance.                                                                     9
9. Lessons of Experience.                                                                9
10. Borrower Performance .................. 1 0
11.  Project Relationships ..................  I 1
12.  Consulting Services ...................  11
13.  Project Documentation .............................................................................1
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (not received) ...........
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in fth performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART m STATISTICAL INFORMATION                    .......................... 12
1 . Related Bank Loans and Credits         ..12
2. Project Timetable .12
3. Crdit Disbursements              ..13
4. Project Implementation..                                                        14
5. Project Costs and Financing..                                                   24
A.  Project Costs.                                                            24
B.  Project Financing.                                                        25
6. Project Results              ..25
A.  Direct Benefits.                                                          25
B.  Economic Impact.                                                          25
7. Status of Covenants..                                                           27
8. Use of Bank Resources                           ..27
A.  Staff Inputs.                                                             27
B. Missions.                                                                  28
C. Costs .29
ANNEX 1: Trends in Crop Productivity and Production
Table 1 Madhya Pradesh.                                                       30
Table 2 Orissa.                                                               31
Table 3 Rajasthan .32



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1523-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Agricultural Extension
Project in India, for which an IDA Credit of SDR 38.6 million (Credit 1523-IN) was approved in
October 1984. The Credit became effective in April 1985 and closed on March 31, 1993, three
years behind schedule. SDR 6.0 million was cancelled on December 5, 1991 during the funds
redeployment exercise. Final disbursement on the credit was made on July 13, 1993 and the
revised credit amount of SDR 32.6 million (84 percent of the original Credit amount) was fully
disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR was prepared by a Food
and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission that visited
India in July 1993. Borrower's Part II has not yet been received.
The PCR (Parts I and III) is based, inter alia, on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the Legal Documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the World Bank (WB)
and the Borrower and implementing agencies, internal Bank memoranda, documentation provided
by the implementing agencies, field visits to selected project sites, and discussions with selected
project farmers, project staff of the Government of India and participating States, and Bank staff at
Headquarters and in New Delhi who had been associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1523-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The project was approved to initiate the implementation of second phase activities that
would further strengthen and deepen the extension effort. It was designed to: (a) strengthen the
reorganized agricultural extension system introduced in Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan
under earlier IDA Credits; (b) reorganize and strengthen the Extension Division and the Directorate
of Extension (DOE) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Government of India (GOI), in order to
increase their ability to support state agricultural extension programs and to perform their
coordinating and policy guidance role throughout India; and (c) assist DOE in the financing of
special studies and special sub-projects, and the supervision, monitoring and evaluation of said
activities. The project was intended to focus on several specific objectives in improving the states'
extension services: administrative consolidation of reformed extension services, consolidation of
extension infrastructure, improvement in the quality of extension operations, viz., broadening and
deepening of extension coverage and strengthening linkages between extension and research.
2.        The project was expected to cost US$65.6 million (Rs. 721.5 million) over a period
of five years, with SDR 38.6 million (US$39.1 million equivalent in 1984) being financed by IDA
and the balance of US$26.5 million being contributed by GOI and the participating State
Governments. The project cost included provision for incremental staff salaries, operating costs,
civil works, vehicles, equipment, training, and funds for special studies and sub-projects.
Implementation Experience
3.        The project was implemented between 1985 and 1993, and the original closing date
(March 31, 1990) was extended three times by a period of one year each, to March 31, 1993.
Project implementation was constrained by insufficient budgetary provisions by GOI and State
Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. Progress of physical implementation was slow over
the first four years, as evidenced by the total disbursement, in SDR terms, of only 13 percent of
the Credit by June 30, 1989. However, the pace of disbursements improved after the first
extension of the Credit closing date in 1991.
4.        With the exception of Rajasthan, there were some shortfalls in achieving the planned
physical targets, including the recruitment of incremental staff, some aspects of the staff training
program (specialized courses, study tours, and overseas training), and construction of field staff
houses. The shortfalls in reaching incremental staffing targets arose partly from a somewhat
intransigent attitude toward staffing issues at the level of the concerned State Governments, and
partly from budgetary constraints confronting the Governments of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and
GOI. There were two notable changes in physical implementation as compared to the SAR plan.
One was the modification of planned civil works and the other was the inclusion of an additional
State component to reorganize extension services in 30 plain districts of Uttar Pradesh. The
original civil works plan to construct 5,100 houses for village extension workers (VEWs) and 664



iv
houses for Agricultural Extension Officers/Assistant Agricultural Officers (AEOs/AAOs) proved
difficult to implement, partly because of the difficulties of acquiring suitable land in work areas and
partly because the preference of staff to rent accommodation was not taken when the project was
planned. Only 1,069 houses (mostly in Rajasthan) for VEWs and 103 for AEOs/AAOs were
constructed. The plan was revised to construct additional training facilities. An innovative feature
was the inclusion of the Uttar Pradesh (30 plain districts) component which was possible due to
substantial savings arising from the devaluation of the Rupee vis-e-vis the US Dollar, and the latter
in relation to the SDR values starting around 1988/89. The savings were utilized for financing the
initial implementation of the Uttar Pradesh (30 plain districts) component, which is still being
funded under the ongoing National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP) HI.
5.         The quality of national and regional training organized by DOE was good and
exceeded the SAR target. The project support for setting up infrastructure for the National Institute
for Management of Agricultural Extension (MANAGE) has led to the development of MANAGE
as a national institute providing effective extension management training to senior and middle level
functionaries of the Departments of Agriculture in various states. Also, DOE's involvement in the
introduction of revised monitoring and evaluation (M&E) methodology and initiating
computerization in extension management proved valuable.
6.         As regards research-extension linkages, there has been improvement over the pre-
project situation in all three States. However, interaction with research has tended to be routine
due to the poor quality of Subject Matter Specialists' (SMSs) support and the response of State
Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and research stations to feedback on farmers' problems; in terms
of providing relevant solutions this has not always been effective.
7.         At completion, actual project costs were US$83 million (Rs. 1,580 million) exceeding
the SAR estimate by US$18 million (27 percent) or Rs. 859 million (119 percent). The increase in
actual project costs in Indian Rupees and US Dollar terrns was primarily attributed to the expansion
of the project scope.
Results
8.        Despite some delays and shortfalls in meeting the SAR targets the project overall has
achieved much in terms of developing both extension infrastructure and institutions as planned at
appraisal, and strengthening the T&V system of agricultural extension services throughout the
participating States. It has also contributed substantially to improving the quality of GOI support
to State extension efforts by building up DOE capacity. Another notable achievement of the project
has been its contribution to the establishment of a strengthened infrastructure for national and
regional level training of extension personnel (in addition to support for MANAGE, the project
provided for the strengthening of two out of four regional extension education institutes). An
unforeseen benefit of the project, a result of credit savings, was the addition of 30 plain districts in
Uttar Pradesh to cover some additional 50-60 million people.
9.         The project's impact on agricultural production is difficult to quantify. M&E data
available from the project States are insufficient to shed any meaningful light on impact assessment
of project investment. However, state-wise crop statistics for the past ten years indicate, in
general, a rising trend in crop production; an increase in oilseed production is noticeable in all
three States. Much of these gains can be attributed to the increased use of modern inputs and
adoption of improved technology, both of which seem to have largely emanated from the better
guidance available to the farming community through strengthened extension services. While,
therefore, no conclusive evidence can be produced as it is difficult to disaggregate the incremental
production benefits of extension from other influencing factors, it is apparent that project impact on



v
improving agricultural production has been positive and significant. As for the economic benefits
of the project, the SAR, following general Bank practice for agricultural extension projects, did not
undertake an economic analysis of the project. For the same reason, no economic re-evaluation
has been undertaken at project completion.
Sustainability
10.       The sustainability of the project-established extension services in the three project
States will, to a great extent, depend on the availability of adequate State government budgetary
support for the extension services. This, in turn, will need to be justified by increased efficiency
and relevance of agricultural technology generation for dissemination to farmers, leading to a
raising of productivity, incomes and living standards. The sustainability of DOE strengthened
under the project will depend on how successful it continues to be in advising state extension
services to become accountable to the ultimate clients -- the farmers. To that end, the DOE may
have to acquire newer skills and appropriately adjust its organizational structure.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.       Under the project, considerable expansion of extension from a mainly cereal crop
focus to one that includes oilseeds, vegetables, fruits and, to a limited extent, agro-forestry, has
taken place. Overall, however, the coverage of extension systems in the three project States has
not broadened and deepened at the rate expected. Continued efforts are also called for to further
improve the quality of agricultural extension operations. In order, therefore, to fully benefit from
the consolidation of extension services that has already taken place, future support for further
improvement should be directed to updating and improving technical capabilities of SMSs and field
staff, strengthening research-extension linkages, encouraging farmers' participation in extension
management, augmenting support for mass media in communication of extension messages, and
promoting farming systems approaches and improving coverage of production activities of rural
women and other underprivileged members of the farming population.
12.       The performance of the DOE and the State Department of Agriculture in Rajasthan
under the project has been particularly noticeable. The experience of Rajasthan shows that the
T&V model provides a good base for a public sector extension service where management
commitment and capacity are consistently reasonable.
13.       Other lessons of experience are summarized in paras. 8.3 and 9.2 of Part I.






I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1523-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           National Agricultural Extension Project
Credit No.             1523-IN
RVP Unit               South Asia
Country                India
Sector                 Agriculture
Subsector              Agricultural Support Services
2. Background
2.1        Agriculture has always been the dominant sector of the Indian economy. The
successive development plans of the Government of India (GOI) since the country's independence
have assigned priority to increasing agricultural growth, alleviating poverty and creating
employment in rural areas.
2.2        The Bank's agricultural program in India for about fifteen years, since the late 1960s,
has had the objective of assisting the country to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to
increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. During this period, the Bank became actively
involved in some 60 agricultural projects representing large investments in infrastructure and
expanded agricultural services. Improving agricultural extension services was recognized as one
of the main relatively low-cost means of increasing agricultural productivity, of making more
effective use of past infrastructure investments and of reaching all farmers, particularly the smaller
ones. Some twelve IDA Credits were therefore approved during the above period to assist thirteen
Indian states to introduce improved agricultural extension services by adopting what is generally
known as the "training and visit" (T&V) system, and to strengthen the Directorate of Extension
(DOE) of GOI's Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to improve its ability to assist state extension
efforts.
2.3        While the overall experience of the above assistance in helping to establish more
professional extension services and broadening their coverage of the farming population was
positive, it was recognized that considerable scope still remained for improving the design of the
agricultural extension system and its effectiveness. The National Agricultural Extension Project
(NAEP I, Credit 1523-lN) was, therefore, approved in October 1984 to initiate the implementation
of second phase activities that would further strengthen and deepen the extension effort. NAEP I
was followed by NAEP II (Credit 1569-IN) which also closed simultaneously with NAEP I at the
end of March 1993, and the ongoing NAEP m (Credit 1754-IN). NAEP I was the thirteenth in
the series of fifteen IDA-assisted agricultural extension projects approved to date by the Bank.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The specific objectives of NAEP I were to: (a) help consolidate administrative
changes brought about by the introduction of the improved extension system under earlier state
projects; (b) further develop the infrastructure (staff, buildings, vehicles, equipment and training
facilities) required for effective extension and provide resources for continued professional
development of extension personnel; (c) improve the quality of extension operations; (d) broaden
and deepen the coverage of the extension services; and (e) strengthen linkages between extension
and research. In furtherance of these objectives, the project provided for continuing assistance
initiated under earlier Credits to three States (Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan) in the
improvement of state agricultural extension services; in the reorganization and strengthening of
MOA's Extension Division and the DOE in order to increase their ability to support more
effectively state agricultural extension programs and to perform more effectively their coordinating
and policy guidance role throughout India; and funds to assist in the financing of projects for
extension reform, special studies and special subprojects, and the supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of the said activities.
The project components, as agreed at negotiations, included the following.
(a)    Strengthening of the reformed State Extension Services: (i)
provision of 1,807 incremental staff including field staff, subject matter
specialists (SMS), supervisory personnel and support staff (358 Madhya
Pradesh, 321 Orissa, and 1,128 Rajasthan); (ii) provision of buildings
including 5,985 staff houses (978 Madhya Pradesh, 3,457 Orissa, and
1,550 Rajasthan) and 147 other extension-related facilities (11 Madhya
Pradesh, 90 Orissa and 46 Rajasthan); (iii) provision of additional vehicles
including one audiovisual van in Madhya Pradesh, 186 cars and jeeps (53
Madhya Pradesh, 40 Orissa, and 93 Rajasthan), 1,200 motorcycles (700
Madhya Pradesh, 300 Orissa, and 200 Rajasthan), and 3,450 bicycles
(2,000 Madhya Pradesh; 750 Orissa, and 700 Rajasthan); (iv) provision of
equipment including audio-visual aids and office furniture needed for
expanded extension activities and increased training; (v) provision of
incremental operating expenses to cover the costs of publicity, training and
demonstration materials, housing and travel allowances, and vehicle
operation; and (vi) provision of funds for strengthening the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) activities including establishment of a M&E unit in Orissa.
(b)    Strengthening of MOA/DOE: provision of funds for 68 incremental
staff (19 for MOA Extension Division and 49 for DOE), a new building to
house all units of DOE and office furniture, three vehicles, office equipment,
incremental operating costs and staff training including overseas training and
All-India/Regional Training.
(c)    Special Subprojects and Special Studies: (i) establishment of a
US$5.0 million fund to finance special short-term subprojects prepared by
states receiving IDA support for strengthening of agricultural extension and
for activities specifically required to strengthen special aspects of agricultural
extension; and (ii) provision of a discretionary fund to be used by MOA
Extension Division, DOE or states for the financing of consultants or other
forms of assistance required for the preparation of future state subprojects,
special subprojects, project completion reports, sector studies and related



3
activities which would assist in the implementation of NAEP I or other IDA-
assisted agricultural extension projects.
3.2        Total project costs, over a five-year period, were estimated at US$65.6 million
(Rs. 721.5 million) of which civil works, vehicles and equipment accounted for about 51 percent.
The IDA-approved Credit of SDR 38.6 million (US$39.1 equivalent) was to fund 59.6 percent of
costs, while GOI and the State Governments were expected to contribute the balance of 40.4
percent.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project was prepared by DOE and the agricultural departments of participating
State Governments during 1982 to 1983. Two Bank missions which visited India in February and
July 1983 assisted the project preparation process.1 As a result of reviews by these missions as
well as the subsequent Bank appraisal mission which visited India in December 1983, the original
GOI proposals2 were substantially scaled down in terrns of both total costs as well as the number
of states to be covered. The project coverage and concept were modified to be in line with the
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 862-IN), except that the project included
centrally-managed special funds for financing special subprojects and studies. The project concept
was clear and it was shared and understood by both IDA and GOI/State Governments.
4.2        Given the strong commitment of GOI and State Governments to the reorganization of
the state extension systems on a national scale, the scope of the project, as appraised, was
generally appropriate. Timing of the project, with the exception of the Madhya Pradesh component
(see para. 4.3), was also appropriate in the light of GOI and State Government requirements to
consolidate the gains under the IDA-assisted projects. Implementation followed similar
arrangements introduced by the respective preceding projects for each participating state and DOE
components. Roles and responsibilities of the implementing agencies (State agricultural
department and MOA/DOE), except in respect to pursuing the objectives of broadening and
deepening extension coverage (para. 4.3), were clearly defined and well understood.
4.3        However, in retrospect, it would appear that the housing program funded by the
project was over-ambitious, as the difficulties of acquiring suitable sites for construction of houses
for village extension workers (VEWs) and agricultural extension officers (AEOs), as well as the
preference of the staff, particularly in Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, to rent accommodation, were
underestimated. Also, the acquisition of a suitable site for the new DOE building prior to project
implementation should have been insisted. In addition, the Madhya Pradesh component, which
was to be implemented in 15 districts covered by the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Credit 712-IN) and also in the remaining 30 districts in the State covered by the
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Phase II Project (Credit 1138-IN), and which was
foreseen to overlap with the latter project (Credit 11 38-IN) by about two years (actual overlap was
by over four years), proved difficult to implement due to the additional financial burden of
implementing two projects simultaneously. A better alternative would have been to include this
component under a subsequent project. Another shortcoming of project design was the failure to
clearly chart out a plan of action and provide implementation guidelines to promote the broadening
A significant input of 50 staff-weeks was provided by IDA to assist project
preparation.
2   The proposals were to cover 9 new states and union territories and 14 second-phase
states with estimated costs of US$273 million in total.



4
and deepening of coveragel of the extension system, although it was known that the state
agricultural departments as well as the DOE had little in-house experience and skills to design, plan
and implement the needed inter-agency coordination measures. Consequently, the roles and
responsibilities of departments such as animal husbandry, horticulture, forestry, irrigation, etc., in
broadening and deepening the extension coverage, were not clearly defined and understood.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Credit Effectiveness. The IDA Credit was approved in October 1984, became
effective in April 1985, and was closed on March 31, 1993, after three extensions for a total
period of three years.
5.2        Credit Disbursement. Disbursement of the Credit lagged well behind the SAR
estimate throughout the originally planned project implementation period. However, the pace of
disbursements improved after the first extension of the Credit closing date in 1991. The poor
disbursement performance was largely due to the fact that project implementation was constrained
by insufficient budgetary provisions by GOI and also the State governments with the exception of
Rajasthan. Progress on physical targets was slow over the first four project years, as evidenced by
the total disbursement in SDR terms of only 13 percent of the Credit by June 30, 1989. In
December 1991, SDR 6.0 million was canceled from the credit as part of the India-wide funds
redeployment exercise. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on July 13, 1993 and the
revised credit amount of SDR 32.6 million (84.5 percent of the original Credit) was fully
disbursed.
5.3        Project Costs. Actual project costs at completion were Rs. 1,580 million (US$83
million). Compared to the SAR estimate, the actual costs were higher by Rs. 859 million (119
percent) or US$18 million (27 percent). The increase in actual project cost in Indian Rupees and
US Dollars, which was possible because of substantial devaluation of the rupee and the US Dollar
in relation to SDR values (starting around 1988/89),2 was primarily devoted to expansion of the
project scope, as explained below.
5.4        Restructuring of NAEP I. The most critical variance between planned and actual
project implementation arose from the restructuring of the project to expand its scope in order to
utilize the substantial savings arising from the devaluation of the Rupee vis-a-vis the US Dollar and
of the latter in relation to SDR values starting around 1988/89. Such savings also arose under
NAEP II and Ill. In all, by March 1990, savings of about SDR 36.6 million equivalent resulted
from the three NAEP Credits. In order to utilize these savings, GOI requested the Bank to include
an additional component for reorganization of extension services in 30 plain districts in the State of
Uttar Pradesh. The Bank's New Delhi office responded to this request positively and quickly by
vigorously pursuing the matter with GOI and the Government of Uttar Pradesh, and by getting the
DOE involved to appraise the Uttar Pradesh component. Accordingly, the relevant Credit
agreements were amended to allow channelling of the savings into the respective special sub-
project fund categories for use under the Uttar Pradesh (30 plain districts) component. Savings
1  Broadening of the technical subjects covered under agricultural extension to include, inter alia,
land use, soil management, water management, drainage, horticulture and farm forestry; and
deepening of coverage of the extension services by dealing with the agricultural production
activities of women, rural youth, very small farmers, tenants and sharecroppers, and with
tribal and hill populations.
2   US$1.00 = Rs11.0 in 1984 and Rs25.9 in 1992; SDR 1 =US$1.02 in 1984 and
US$1.40 in 1992.



5
under NAEP I have been utilized to finance the first three years' implementation of the Uttar
Pradesh component, which is still in progress with funding from NAEP III. The implementation
has been slightly behind schedule mainly due to the delayed start-up. Physical achievements of
this component have been satisfactory as shown in Part 114-E.
5.5        Institutional and Staff Development. Recruitment of incremental staff 1
progressed satisfactorily in Rajasthan. In total, 1,153 new staff (102 percent) against the SAR
target of 1,128 were recruited. The majority of these were field level staff (see Part IIJ/4-Cl). The
State Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, as well as the MOAI DOE, did not achieve the
SAR incremental staffing targets. Their overall achievements were: Madhya Pradesh 255 (71
percent) against 358; Orissa 269 (84 percent) against 321; and MOA/DOE 33 (49 percent) against
68. These shortfalls resulted partly from a somewhat intransigent attitude on staffing issues at the
level of concerned State Governments and partly from budgetary constraints confronting the
concerned State governments and GOI. Overall, however, the project recruited 1,710 incremental
staff or 91 prcent of the planned 1,875.
5.6        The staff training generally associated with the T&V system -- monthly
extension/research workshops, fortnightly training sessions, and orientation courses for
VEWs/AEOs, etc. -- proceeded according to schedule, but the courses appeared to have become
somewhat ritualistic largely due to the repetitive nature and content of technical information used in
these sessions. However, the quality of training imparted to VEWs and AEOs through specialized
courses, refresher courses and study tours was satisfactory, although this program suffered,
particularly in Orissa and Madhya Pradesh, mainly due to administrative problems such as non-
clearance of backlog of travel expenses and inadequate provision for travel and per diem
allowances for lower level staff. All India/regional training organized by DOE has been of better
quality and also exceeded the SAR target. The participating States' extension staff invariably
commended the DOE's performance. However, DOE's overseas training had a major shortfall due
to the Gors restriction on overseas training/visits.
5.7        Civil Works. The main difficulty in implementing the civil works program was in
the construction of VEW and AEO houses and the DOE headquarters building. As mentioned in
para 4.3, this was due to inadequate confirmation of site availability at the time of project
preparation as well as due note not being taken of the preference of lower level extension staff to
rent accommodation. As against the SAR target of 664 houses for AEOs/AAOs, only 103 were
actually built. The original plan was to construct 5,100 VEW houses: 3,000 in Orissa, 1,300 in
Rajasthan and 800 in Madhya Pradesh. However, only 1,069 (mostly in Rajasthan) actually were
constructed. Consequently, the plan was revised to construct additional training facilities. Orissa
constructed 153 block level training halls, Madhya Pradesh, one state level training center and 430
block training halls, and Rajasthan, 16 district level training halls.
5.8        The construction of the DOE headquarters building did not start until 1991 because of
the difficulty in establishing title to, and acquiring, the site originally planned. The size of
building also had to be reduced from the planned three storeys to two storeys because of
regulations in the area which prohibited construction of a three-storey building. The construction
was finally completed in 1993.
5.9        Vehicles and Equipment. Procurement of cars and 4-wheel drive vehicles
exceeded the SAR targets in all the three States (a total of 308 against the planned 186 vehicles).
The increased number of vehicles was procured mainly for replacement of old vehicles under the
1  Incremental staff includes redeployed Government staff. Exact numbers of redeployed
Government staff are not known as the relevant data were not maintained.



6
previous projects. This was necessary because the project implementation period was extended
from the planned five years to eight years. Bicycles and motorcycles/mopeds for VEWs/AEOs
were procured almost as planned except in Orissa where instead of bicycles more motorcycles were
procured. Equipment procured under the project included office furniture, audio-visual equipment,
and VEW kits. The bulk of equipment procurement took place after 1990 because of delays in
construction of the project buildings.
5.10       Special Subprojects and Special Studies. The special subproject fund was
used to finance two broad categories of activities, viz.: (a) activities that sought to augment
extension services across states (central sector subprojects); and (b) activities that strengthened
state-specific extension systems (centrally-sponsored subprojects). Altogether 18 subprojects were
implemented using this fund. The most notable contribution under the central sector subprojects
was the establishment of the National Institute for Management of Agricultural Extension
(MANAGE) and the strengthening of two out of four regional extension education institutes.1 The
support for MANAGE infrastructure provided under the project has led to the development of
MANAGE as a national institute providing effective management training to senior and middle
level functionaries from the State Departments of Agriculture and State Agricultural Universities,
whereas the two regional institutes are providing extension and communications training to middle
and lower level functionaries from southern and western Indian states. Also, under a central sector
subproject, communications equipment was procured for the oilseeds production program. The
centrally-sponsored subprojects focused on strengthening training facilities and audio-visual
support for extension services in eight selected states.
5.11       The discretionary fund for special studies was used to finance 15 special studies by
various local institutes and governmental agencies. As can be seen in the list of special studies
(Part IIV16-D), several of the studies commissioned were not directly related to extension activities.
Given that most of the state extension services had neither the experience nor the in-house skills to
design, plan and implement the key activity of broadening and deepening their extension coverage
(see para. 4.3), the fund could have been better utilized to support the participating States in
developing the methodology for implementation of this important project objective.
5.12       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The project supported the establishment of
an M&E unit in the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP) in Orissa, since the
Farm Management Data unit of Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, which was to
undertake M&E work under the previous project (Credit 681-IN) did not serve the purpose
intended for the state extension service. The new unit assembled a considerable amount of useful
information. However, there have been long delays in processing and publishing the data. The
M&E reports have tended to be repetitive following the M&E manual each season. Although most
of the planned M&E staff (81) at appraisal were appointed in the early stages of project
implementation, only 46 were retained at the time of completion. The post of Joint Director (M&E)
has been vacant since 1991. The unit appears to have remained in the periphery with little
government support As against this position, the project support for strengthening the existing
M&E units in the other two States in terms of staffing and staff training proceeded as planned in
the SAR. Also, DOE's involvement in the introduction of revised M&E methodology and
initiating computerization in extension management proved valuable.
5.13       Modification of T&V System. There were some modifications in the T&V
system originally established in Rajasthan. The Department of Agriculture (DOA) in Rajasthan,
Under the project, extension education institutes at Rajendra Nagar (Andhra Pradesh)
and Anand (Gujarat) were strengthened.



7
realized that it was not practical to expect contact farmers (CF) to disseminate all the information in
the context of agrarian relations prevailing in rural Rajasthan. Subsequently in 1992, farmer
groups (FG) were mobilized in each village. The DOA convened organizational/management
training for the executive members of the FGs. On the designated days, the VEW trained the
group and transmitted extension impact messages to the FG. In addition, Farmer Service Centers
(FSC) have been established at VEW Circle Headquarters. The VEW is available for consultation
at FSC on Mondays and Thursdays. The frequency of regular training programs has been reduced
recently: "Fortnightly Training" for VEWs/AEOs reduced to once a month and monthly
workshops for SMSs with master trainers to once every two months. One main factor for this
reduction seems to be the need to avoid the repetition of technical information used in these
sessions
5.14       Research-Extension Linkage. In order to strengthen ties between research and
extension, each participating State conducted SMS monthly workshops; held zonal research-
extension advisory committee meetings; and diagnostic visits were made by research scientists,
together with extension staff. Through these activities, the research-extension linkage process has
been substantially streamlined and, in this respect, there has been much improvement over the pre-
project situation in the respective states. However, interaction with research has tended to be
routinized. One main constraint has been the inability to provide a real SMS who is truly a
specialist in his/her field with a career path as a specialist. Also, response of SAUs and research
stations to provide feedback on farmers' problems in terms of providing relevant solutions has not
always been effective. It thus seems that continued consolidation of efforts through further
support to strengthening the process of new technology generation in response to feedback on
farmers' problems, would be necessary.
6. Project Results
6.1        Overall, despite implementation delays, the project has achieved much in terms of
further supporting and developing staffing and training, staff mobility, and infrastructure and
institutions of the extension system, and, together with earlier first phase projects, has assisted the
establishment of a strengthened T&V system of agricultural extension services throughout the three
participating States. It has thus been largely successful in attaining the objective of consolidation
of the extension infrastructure of the three States. An unforeseen achievement of the project has
been the flexibility with which it could successfully expand to cover 30 plain districts in Uttar
Pradesh using credit savings. Some additional 50-60 million people should receive the windfall
benefit of improved extension services.
6.2        The project has been instrumental in improving the quality of agricultural extension
operations, although the inadequacies of SMSs' support to field staff need to be effectively
addressed, and linkages between extension and research need to be further strengthened. In
addition, under the project, a considerable expansion of extension, from a mainly cereal field crop
orientation, to oilseeds, vegetables, fruits and, to a limited extent, agro-forestry, has taken place.
Overall, however, the coverage of the extension system in the three States was not broadened and
deepened at the rate expected. Further efforts would, therefore, be necessary in particular to
promote a farming system approach and to improve the coverage of production activities of rural
women and other underprivileged members of the farming population.
6.3        The project has also contributed substantially to improve the quality of GOI support
to the extension efforts of the State Governments. The DOE, as strengthened under the project, is
now able to play a dynamic role in guiding, coordinating, supervising, and monitoring state-level
extension systems. Under the project, DOE was particularly active in coordinating the provision of
national and international training to staff, establishing a monitoring/review mechanism through



8
interdisciplinary teams, guiding M&E activities, and sorting out implementation issues, such as
pursuing reimbursement claims. It has also developed a capacity to help states prepare special
subprojects and appraise such subprojects, and to organize internal processes to obtain necessary
clearances (such as from the Ministry of Finance) to implement subprojects. Another notable
achievement of the project has been its contribution to the establishment of a strengthened
infrastructure for national and regional level training of extension personnel (see para. 5.10).
6.4        The project impact on agricultural production is difficult to quantify. M&E data
available from the three State extension services are insufficient to shed any meaningful light on
impact assessment of the project investment. The reason for this is that M&E under the project
emphasized the monitoring of key indicators that ensure compliance with the detailed schedule of
visits and adoption of recommended practices, rather than the evaluation and impact assessment.
The M&E units did collect crop yield data. However the yield data alone are inadequate to measure
precisely the impact in terms of increased production of extension investment. However, following
the SAR presentation of historical crop yields, area, and production, in Madhya Pradesh and
Orissa, which indicate the trends during the previous project periods, the PCR mission gathered
similar crop statistics for the three project States, which are given in Tables 1-3 of Annex 1. The
data indicate, in general, a rising trend in crop production. Increase in oilseed production is
particularly noticeable in all the three States. Much of these increased production gains can be
attributed to the increased use of modern inputs and adoption of improved technology, both of
which seem to have emanated from better guidance available to the farming community though
strengthened extension services. While, therefore, no conclusive evidence can be produced as it is
difficult to disaggregate the incremental production benefits of extension from the other influencing
factors, it is apparent that the project impact on improving agricultural production has been positive
and significant.
6.5        As for the economic benefits of the project, the SAR, following general Bank
practices for agricultural extension projects, did not undertake a computation of the economic rate
of return (ERR). For the same reason, no economic re-evaluation has been undertaken at project
completion.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        The project has helped complete the institutionalization of the T&V system of
extension services in Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan, largely through provision of
additional extension infrastructure and staffing. The sustainability of the project-established
extension services in these States will, to a great extent, depend on the availability of adequate State
Governments' budgetary support to their extension services, although some cost-cutting should be
possible through increased reliance on mass media campaigns and engendering farmer participation
in extension management. Furtherrnore, appropriate budgetary provisions will need to be justified
by increased efficiency and the relevance of agricultural technology generation for dissemination to
farmers, which will solve their problems of raising productivity, incomes and living standards.
7.2        Although presently the bulk of the extension budget is being sustained by the State
Governments, available evidence from Orissa and Madhya Pradesh suggests that there could be a
risk that trained manpower belonging to the extension services might be redeployed to other
resource-rich projects. Recently, the Government of Orissa decided to withdraw 90 positions
(although mostly at support staff level) from the extension services, as a measure to reduce the
budgetary burden. In Madhya Pradesh, most staff positions, including those created under the
previous two projects (Credit 712-IN and Credit 1138-IN), have yet to be converted to non-plan
posts. On the contrary, Rajasthan's extension services appear to enjoy the continuing strong
support of the State Government. With regard to the Uttar Pradesh component (30 plain districts),



9
it is still too early to comment on its sustainability because the component is still under
implementation.
7.3        The sustainability of DOE strengthened under the project will depend on how
successful it continues to be in advising state extension services to become accountable to the
ultimate clients -- the farmers. It may be necessary to modify the current role of DOE after
completion of the ongoing NAEP III, with the entry into the new post-T&V system establishment
era. The existing hierarchical organizational structure, with almost two-thirds support staff, may
no longer be tenable. The DOE may have to acquire newer skills and a leaner and flatter
organizational structure to discharge the newer roles of: conducting extension policy analysis and
assisting states to evolve appropriate extension strategies; facilitating states to embrace farner-
participatory and client-accountable extension services; assuming policy coordination roles for
ensuring that extension activities of public, private and independent NGOs coalesce to improve
sustainable livelihoods of the farning community.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The performance of the Bank from project identification through negotiation was
generally good. The Bank provided adequate resources (139 staffweeks) to meet the objectives
and targets of project processing. Staff input appears to be high compared to other extension
projects perhaps due to wider geographical coverage of the project involving DOE at the center and
three larger states in the country. The Bank's New Delhi Office (NDO) performed well by
providing consultation and guidance during the project implementation phase and in effectively
taking up generic issues such as inadequate budget support, restrictions on procurement, staffing,
research support, at the GOI level with MOA and the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance.
8.2        The Bank's supervisory effort was similarly generally good. A total of 46
supervision missions were fielded in the eight-year implementation period. Since the project
covered a wide geographical area (three States, later increased to four States), separate supervision
missions, each comprising 2 to 3 specialists, were sent for about a week for each project State at
about six-month intervals. Each team produced a Field Report on completion of its visit. Formal
supervision reports with Form 590 were produced by the Agricultural Unit of NDO, based on
these Field Reports, annually with a few exceptions. Total staff input for supervision was also
high, being 163.4 staffweeks, reflecting the project's multi-state coverage. Fairly good continuity
of staff of appropriate specialization was maintained between missions. During the supervision
missions, the staff spent most of their time in field visits discussing issues and reviewing project
impact with farmers, researchers and field staff in order to suggest improvements. However, it
might have been helpful if either an engineer or architect had accompanied some of the supervision
missions in view of the importance of civil works and the problems associated with them.
9. Lessons of Experience
9.1        From the Bank's point of view, the lessons which can be learned include the
following:
(a)    In designing repeater projects like the Madhya Pradesh component of NAEP
I, it is desirable to avoid a long overlapping period with the previous project,
which would not only put an extra burden of implementing two projects
simultaneously on available budgetary resources, but also give less
opportunity of learning from the experience of implementing the previous



10
project. The PCR for the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Phase II
Project (Credit 1138-IN) draws attention to the similar point.
(b)    There is a need to undertake, in the course of project processing, a careful
assessment of the availability of suitable construction sites for the project
buildings (such as field staff houses and DOE building under NAEP 1), and
perhaps insist on the acquisition and establishment of clear title to sites
before commencement of project implementation.
(c)    If a project is to promote activities like broadening and deepening of
extension coverage, which require detailed planning and inter-agency
collaboration, it is important to devote adequate attention to specification of a
plan of action and implementation guidelines, and involve relevant
departments at the project formulation and appraisal stages.
(d)    In order to fully benefit from the consolidation of extension services that has
already taken place, future support for further improvement should be
directed to updating and improving technical capabilities of SMSs and field
staff, encouraging farmers' participation in extension management,
augmenting support for mass media in communication of extension
messages, promoting a farming systems approach and improving coverage
of production activities of rural women and other underprivileged members
of the farming population.
(e)    Restructuring of NAEP I, II and m to include an additional 30 plain districts
in Uttar Pradesh under the project was an innovative approach in that it
facilitated the better use of substantial savings of the three NAEP Credits,
which would have been otherwise canceled.
(f)    In the area of M&E, future efforts need to be directed to the development of
appropriate methodology for evaluation of the impact of investment in
agricultural extension on farmers' productivity and agricultural production.
10. Borrower Performance
10.1       The performance of the implementing agencies was generally satisfactory and, in
particular, that of the DOE and the State Department of Agriculture in Rajasthan was even better.
As noted earlier (para. 7.2), in Rajasthan the DOA performed well with strong leadership at the
Secretary level and a stable continuity of senior management. In Madhya Pradesh and Orissa,
project implementation was hampered by avoidable problems of inadequate counterpart funding.
DOE was also affected by budgetary constraints to some extent in the initial stages. However, a
change in leadership and a stronger commitment helped in picking up momentum. With strong
support from NDO, DOE gradually grew in confidence and stature, and contributed significandy in
the following spheres: implementation assistance and guidance to the participating States;
methodological development in M&E; facilitating and organizing workshops and training
programs; and helping States to prepare special subprojects and appraising and assisting in
clearance of such subprojects. Of particular importance has been the role played by DOE over the
past two to three years in organizing several national workshops to promote the concept of broad-
based extension services across the State Governments, which now seem to realize that discipline-
specific extension services will be difficult to sustain.



I1
10.2       From the Borrower's point of view, the following major lessons can be learned from
the experience gained in implementing the project.
(a)    As demonstrated by the experience of Rajasthan and DOE, it is important to
have strong leadership and continuity of senior management, well-committed
to the project to ensure successful implementation, and that the T & V model
provides a good administrative structure for a public sector extension service
where management commitment and capacity are consistently reasonable.
(b)    It is important for the Borrower to carefully assess the budgetary
implications before committing to implement an investment project and later
ensure sufficient and timely budgetary support to avoid implementation
delays and secure sustainability. This is particularly needed in respect of an
extension project, since being a service supportive project it is liable to
budget cuts in the first instance vis-d-vis a production project when the
government faces financial difficulties.
(c)    Madhya Pradesh's experience with NAEP I clearly highlights the need to
proceed with caution, and not under-estimate the importance of gaining
experience from the related previous projects before launching a follow-up
project.
11. Project Relationships
11.1       Through its long association with MOA/DOE during the previous twelve extension-
related projects since 1977, the Bank had developed a good working relationship. The
arrangement of delegating supervision responsibility to the resident staff (NDO) was beneficial in
strengthening further the Bank and Borrower relationship. Most of the project-specific problems
were resolved relatively easily without seeking Bank's headquarters advice. The presence of NDO
in the country and their staff relationship with the Borrower and the implementing agencies should
not be under-estimated in this regard, particularly in handling geographically-wide and relatively
problem-encountering projects like this one.
12.  Consulting Services
12.1       DOE's internal consultancy scheme initiated under the Composite Extension Project
(Credit 862-IN) was also continued under this project. Senior extension officers who were
directly engaged in ongoing extension projects in their own States were recruited under this
scheme, to visit other States and assist in developing more effective project organizations.
Altogether 242 such consultancy visits were made to participating States under NAEP I, II and m
during the eight-year project period. General satisfaction with the performance of the experts
recruited under the scheme was expressed by the State project implementing agencies of NAEP I.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The SAR, the Legal Documents, and the relevant Project Agreements were generally
sufficient to provide a basic framework for IDA, the Borrower, and the project implementing
agencies. The supervision reports and other relevant project documents available at the Bank
generally contained sufficient information for preparation of the PCR. Data made available to the
PCR mission by each implementing agency were particularly useful in completing the Part HI
tables.



12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part IH has not been received.



13
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Creditsl/
t_redlt I tue                rpose                                        fTear or       5W               omments
iss Agncltura               eorganizat   o extension and researc , and    1975             eaos  14         itsed 1984PPAR
Development Project (Cr68   trodu2tion of T & V extension methodology (lIst                             isued 1986
N                          hase).
Oady  ra desh Agri         eorgatuzation and strengthening of extension      77          0                  isued 1983
Extension & Research       ervices in 15 out of 45 districts in the State ( st                           PAR issued 1986
Proiect (Cr712-lN)        bhase) and improvement of research oDerabon.
Rajasthan Agricultural     eorgaruzation and strengthening of extension    1977          otd1983        PCR  sued 1984
Extension and Research      rvices in 17 out of 26 districts in the State (lst                          PPAR issued 1985
Proiect (Cr.737-N           ase). and imnrovement of research   Iration
Composite Agntr l          eorganization and strengUhesng o  tate extensio 1979          oed 194        K     sued 1985
atension Project (Cr.862-   ervices in Gujarat, Haryana and Kamataka (lst                               PPAR istued 1986
N)                          se), and improvement of GO EDOE capacity to
ssist State extension efforts.
adhya Pradesh Agri.          ow-up of Cr.72-IN to reorgarnze and strengthen 1i91       Closed 1989      PCRissued 1990
Extension Project II (Cr. 113   tension services in the remaining 30 districts.
N)
National Agnculn           oow-upo   r 523-IN (subject of this PCR), to    1              =os  1993     KM under prEttoo
Extension 1 Project (Cr.156   ovide further suppo  to three already paricipating
N)                         tates (Gujarat. Ha  ana  nd Kamataka) under
r.862-IN and introduction of T & V system in
Jammu and Kashmir.                                          I               I
National Agricultural     Follow-up of Cr.1569-IN to provide further sup-port             going         rplementation is two
xtension III Project      a Assarn in continuation of support under Cr.728-IN                          years behind original
Cr.1754-IN)                troduce T & V system to Himachal and Uttar                                   chedule, and expected
Pradesh, and to replenish the Special Sub-Project                            LO close in 1996.
Fund established in GOVDOE under Cr.1523-IN
'subiect of this PCR).                            _         
UI In addition to those listed here, the following IDA-assisted  ojects are related to introduction of the T & V systern in India:   Rajasthan
CAD Project (Cr.502-IN); Chambal CAD Project (Cr 562-lN); West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research   Projact (Cr.690-lN);
Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr728-N); Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project  (Cr.761 -IN); Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1028-IN); Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Projec (Cr.1135-IN); Tamil  Nadu Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr.1137-IN); Andhr. Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1219-lN).
2. Project Timetable
Item                            Date  Planned                   Date  Revised                   Date  Actual
Identification                 J- __                                                             an. 2,19821/
Preparation                   II N.A.                           N.A.                            1982/1983
Appraisal                       April 1983                      Dec. 1983                       Dec. 1-21, 1983
egotiations                   April 1984                      N.A.                              ug. 13, 1984
oard Approval                 June 1984                       N.A.                               t. 2, 1984
|Credit Signature               N.A.                            N.A.                           I c. 12, 1984
reditEffectiveness            Dec. 31, 1984                   N.A.                              I        11,1985
redit Closing                 March 31,1990                   March 31,1993                         h 31,1993
reditCompletion                 N.A.                            July 31, 1993                    uly 31, 1993
I/ Date of the first project
brief  issued.                  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _       _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _    _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _



14
Comments
Major issues raised at each stage of the project cycle as recorded in the Project Brief,
Issues Paper, the Decision Memorandum, and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations were as
follows.
Identirication/Preparation: (i) GOI proposed project costs of US$273 million
require refinement (later reduced to US$150 million and eventually to US$65.6 million at
appraisal); ii) Willingness of MOA (GOI) to bring about adrninistrative consolidation to ensure
nationwide consistency in the approach to the T & V extension system given that agriculture is a
state responsibility; (iii) Need to allow at least 60% of the project costs to be financed by IDA in
view of GOI and state funding difficulties although almost all of the cost are local costs (this
percentage was eventually accepted by IDA).
Appraisal: No substantial issues arose out of the appraisal. Decision meeting
endorsed the earlier agreement with GOI that the proposed credit should take the form of a
composite credit with separate credit agreements between IDA and each participating state, in view
of the constitutional restriction on legal agreements between the centre and the states. The meeting
also agreed on the proposed conditions of negotiations, i.e. the states would obtain all the required
sanctions and make budget provisions for their sub-projects, and DOE would obtain the Planning
and Finance approvals.
Negotiations: Jammu and Kashmir component was dropped at the request of the
GOI representative and the proposed IDA credit amount was reduced subsequently.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR Million)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal Estimate   1.54     6.95    16.21    27.41    35.90    38.60    38.6    38.6    38.6    38.6
Actual                        1.52    3.05     4.55     5.26    10.23    17.6    23.49    3253      32.6
Actual as % of Estimate   0%  22%      19%     17%      15%      27%     46%      61%      84%      84%
Comments: SDR6.0 million was cancelled on December 5, 1991.
Final disbursement was made on July 13, 1993 and the revised
credit amount was SDR32.6 million.



15
4. Project Implementation
A. Madhya Pradesh Component
A.1   Recruitment of Incremental Staff
eagnation                                 AK Iaret (No.)           Actual (No.)                CuUAl as   0 bAK Tar2et
ia aquarters 
SMS orlsceds                                                        4 i6
Librarian1 
Su   ft staff                            2
Z    stnct 
-ADA(SMS)                                                          to216  10                  52
ADO                                       7                       417
RAEO                                     283                      197                         69
4 SAU Extension Supponrt
Communicauons specialist                 I                         I                          100
Machine operator                         I                         1                          100
Audio-visual oX erator                   I                         I                          100
Total                                    358                      1255                        _1
I Posted at district level.                                        I                                                            I
A.2   Civil Works and Vehicles
tem 1works  SAK T arget (No.                                          cual (No.)               Actual aas  o bAK0 laree         I
AEO houses                               178
VEW houses                               800                      -
Printing pres & information buildings    11                        10                         90
Block level trming halls                                          430
State level training centrce1
2. Vehijcles                                              
Audjo-visual van                         I
| Jeeps                                  53                       78                          147
1-Van (training centre)                                             1  
Car (training centre)                                              1
Motorcycles/mopeds                       700                      696                         9
Bicycles                                 2 000                     1.889                       4



16
A.3 Training
1. I1aRe Extension Worker                  nit             *SAK Iareet          cua                cuaso             Iareet
-nduction courses                        ndiv2                               112 40
OrientUton courses                        o.              120                                   208
Fortnightly courses                       o.              1,664              1,664              100
Refresher courses                         div.            5,500             e870                52
Special courses                           o               360                 20                117
Proanotional study                        div.            90                  0                 33
Stud tous                                 div             1150                                  5
* T utral Etension  0o ker-
Unentation courses                        o               jU                                    400
Refresher courses                         div.           11460                50                51
Special courses                           o               132                161                122
Promnotionsa study                       No               30                  1                 70
Study tours                               div.            250                 5                  6
j ubvet Matter SrIJst_
unentation courses                        a.38                                                  100
Monthly workshops                         .              2,040              ,040               100
Special courses                           o.              20                105                  25
Promnotional study                        div.            30 
Sw   tours                                div.            150                25                 17
enton courses                             o15                                                   133
Management courses                        .               5                  12                  40
Special courses                           0.              30                 14                  7
Studv tours                              ndiv.            25                 1 2                 8
n or   icers
Onentation courses                       1o.                                                     67
Managernent courses                      oo.              3                                     167
Special courses                            .              3                                     833
nv .             10                 30                  00
Seauor level courses                      o                                                     125
M & E unit courses                        o               6                  10                 167
Information unit courses                   .              15                 11                  3
Support agency courses                    o               10                 10                 100



17
B. Orissa Component
B.1   Recruitment of Incremental Staff
)esIenaIos                                  kAK  Iaret (e O.)          Actuan   0.                      u  as   0 oF A    aree
i. District                                   __               _
u iect matt -,  1Cia ist                    696                                                     00
Z    ormation  flits                       I
Ran e level staff
*           a E. Headulrers level
Jont  irector                              I                         bI 
Agricultural Economust                     I                          I                            100
Rural Sociologist                          1                           I                           100
Statistician                               I                          I                            100
Field Supervisor                           13                         13                           100
Field Investigator                          6                         46                           100
Statistical Clerk                         118                         18                           100
4.SuiivortStaff 
ClerkAccountant, etc.                      132                        92                           69
Tolal                                      321                         269                        81 _4
B.2   Civil Works
lltem   _SAK Target (No.                                                               u
- Office_                                                                        115                    __ 1180
AEO houses    c3 1 et  u_
VEW houses                                             3%0
ALM                                                    162                        159-                 ?5
T rairniy HaUs
iDstrict PIevel training halls                        B3        V h l
Block lev.e~l, uainin  alls,                                                       15 I
K~ ~~~c .  a'eino  nonlte Buildinlys I/                                         I       
m A    haoasusaesre
[1VEW C  orses                                            -                           04
IrIncomnplete staff houses under Cr.682-lN.         11                                                                                I
B.3   Vehicles
lernI lBAK Iarget (Nwo.)                                           fActual (NO.)                   IACtUala AS   oFrbAK TIrget 
4-wheel dnrve                                                                                     1236
M otorcycles mo0eds 50                                                1135                        117
Bicycle5                                                              3 



18
B.4   Training
i. VilaRe Extension Workcernit                             bAR I ArYet         ctual              ctual as  or XK I Aret
Induction courses                       n                 1,600                A                 .A.
Orientation courses                      O.               460                1,296               81
Formnightly courses                       o.              1,570              ,512               160
Refresher courses                                         4.div  ,800        1,229              5
Sp    9couses                            O.                20                  2
r.vr~~~~~~~o                                    1205
:Study tours                            140N              650                569                87
Z A$ncultural Extension Oicer
_;taon courses                                            190                240                126
Refresher courses                        ndiv.            4,325              163
Special courses                        to                 680               111                 16
Higher training                         tEndiv.           400                137                 4
Sudvtours -_    tndiv,                                    125                29                  3
unentation courseXo                                       65                                    IZ92
Monthly workshopos                      No                780                1,313              168
Specialcouns INo.                                  60                 197                 28
SuvtuIndiv       80                 6
i Fed Officers (D)AO/ADAO)
vnentaUon courses                       No                 5                  10
Mangement courses                       NO0.               OI                                    0
Special courses                         1O.                5
tours  -ndivo    25                                    25
Ornentatiornlsenuinars/workshops          0.              2
Special courses                         No                200
Study tours                             [ndivI 1                             2                   0



19
C. Rajasthan Component
C.1   Recruitment of Incremental Staff
tion                                  pAK lSreet (No.           Actual   .                  Acual aS  oF 5A Fareet
I Headquaners                               _                                                     _      _      _     _I
Joint Director, Agnculture                2                         2                          l0
-    oSMS                                 I                          I                          100
Joint DLrector, Agriculture                                                                    100
Deputy Director, Agriculture                                                                   too 5  100
3 District
Deputy Director, Agriculture ;8                                     8                          too
SMS                                       22                        22                          100
4  ub- strict                r                          I
SD Agri. Officer                          1                         59                         10O
SMS                                       1 8                       18                         100
F Field                                   r                                                     I
Ari,Extension Officer                    124                        176                        142
VEW                                      836                        810                        97
6M&E
JDA                                      3                                                     100
Assistant DA                              3                         3                          100
Statistician                              3                         3                          100
Assistant Staistician                                               2                           100
AAO                                                                 2                          100
Investieator                             b                          9                          100
7  dative Research                         _
-Additional Director                                                  I                          11XW
Scientist                                                           2                           100
Assistant Scientist                                                 4                           100
AARO                                                                8                           89
ASO                                                                 2                          100
Aeri. Sucervisor                         1i                         11 1500li
Total                                       128                     I.153                      f103
C.2   Civil Works and Vehicles
Item                                      IAK larg I NO.I            WCrua   O.                    ala=s Ab Or oAK  larlet
. Civil works                               ____         _11
-District offices                          -                          7                                                            1
Sub-distric offices                      4                         19                           475
SMS houses                                82                        82                         100
AAO houses                               168                        43                         26
VEW houses                               1.300                     954                         73
Training halls                           0o                         36                         180
Adaptive research - office/labs.         2                         2                           100
Adaptive research - storage              2                         2                           100
Adaptive research - substation           1                          2                          Z00
Adaptive research - farm auaners         17                        17                          loo
12 Vehictes merc_                                                                                                  1
Car                                     13                                                     Tw
4-wheel drive                             o                         134                       148
Motorcycleshnopeds                         00                       )
Bicycles                                  00                       1) 810                        _      _        _       _



20
C.3 Training
Vl%ae Extensiorn Worker                  IS                     re          Actua
Induction courses                         div             2144              35                  17
Orientation courses                       o               590                542                 2
Fortnightly courses                     No                2.340              12,525              35
Refresher courses                         div             5.000             4880                 8
Special courses                          So 50o                              1i0                2
Prornotional study                        div             200                                  k
Study tours                              ndiv.            500                 88                 8
culturl Extension Ocer                                                                           __                _
-Onenttion coures                       N.295                                357                121
Refresher courses                        o.               1,000              1,031              103
Special courses                           div.            1X0                .084               2,084
PrTnotional study                        ndiv.            30                 15                 50
Study tours                              ndiv.            100                177                177
3  ubect Mater S     itialist                             I                                       _        _        _
Oinentation courses                     No.              135
Monthly workshops                         o.              420                686                163
Special courses                           o.              34                  19                644
Promotional study                       ldiv.             30                 14                 47
Study tours                              ndiv.            50                 147                294
Or=entasuon courses                       o.              35                 16                 46
Management courses                        o.              5                  43                 860
Special courses                           o.              10                 140                1,400
Studv tours                              ndiv.            25                 26                 104
5 Senior Level Officers 
Orientation courses                     No                         2                            100
Management courses                         .              2                   3                e,150
Special courses                         N.                5                  94                 1880
Seuor non-extension courses             No.                                  Z 
M & E courses                                             10                                     10
Adaptive research courses                                 2                   1                 1550
Information courses                                       5                  16                  20
Sup,DaO atencies courses                  a.              5         2        25                 100



21I
D. DOE Component
D.1   Recruitment of Incremental Staff
tesgnal0on                              AM raret No. J             ua   0.                ctual aC U b oy SAK O arget
I3O/Etnsion DZivision; 
Joutt -omnrussicner (.xtension)                                 2 1
Assistant Comnissioner (Extension)                              -
Desk Officer                           I                        I                         100
Section Officer                                                 -
Senior Technical AssistatM                                      2                          100
-       Su    St                       2                   _    6                           6
Drectorate of Extension                   _
Joint Director                         10                       50
Senior Extension Officer               S                        3
Extension Officer                      74                                                  7
Deputy Director                        3                        1                          3
Assistant Admin. Officer               I                        -
Suponrt staff                           3                       9                          9
1 Totl                                                            33 
D.2 Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment
item                                SAK IarLet (tNO.)         ctual                    or Ctu                   I a e
I DQ  building                      _                                                        6lW1
3.     eeRs__                                                    _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _
1 Euipment                           nspe e                  Phooers (5)
TypwnLers (8)                I
Office furniture for new
DOE buwdins_
D.3 Training
Utem                                    unit                IpAK I anet    I ctua-            I  tUal AS Vb of SAKT re
sl reon   ouraes 1aNo of couses                              1 1               1
Oerseas traininR                       I   0o 0f oficenrt     7                9               3 



22
D.4    Special Sub-projects
Central Sector:
1.          Establishment of National Institute for Management of Agricultural Extension (MANAGE).
2.          Strengthening of Anand Extension Education Institute.
3.          Strengthening of Rajandra Nagar Extension Education Institute.
4.          Provision of Inter-Active Video for MANAGE.
5.          Provision of communications equipment for oilseeds production programme.
Centrally sponsored:
1.          Maharashtra
I       Provision of training facilities at Taluka seed farms;
2       Installation of micro computer for M & E cell.
2.          Orissa
3       Strengthening of adaptive research stations.
3.          Haryana
4       Construction of hostel for trainees at HAU;
5       Additional/alteration of Kisan Ashram.
4.          Rajasthan
6       Provision of audio-visual equipment for extension information supporL
5.          Kerala
7       Strengthening of Farm Information Bureau.
8       Establishment of five regional agricultural training centres;
9       Establishment of Central Training Institute.
6.          Kamataka
10      Provision of audio-visual aids for UAS Training Programme.
7.          West Bengal
II      Provision of audio-visual aids for Agricultural Information Unit.
8.          Andhra Pradesh
12      Provision of audio-visual aids or DOA.



23
E. Uttar Pradesh (30 plain districts) Component 1/
E.1   Recruitment of Incremental Staff
th}lnatlon                            lulanned'T arsee (No.]    Actual fNo.)              ACtual as I& or tjanned'I ar2eg
. cI2atI aaeanen                                                    ua    0.caaa
1.  eadauarters                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Director, Extension                    I
JDA/SMS (Horticulture)                 I                         I                         100
Assistant Director. Extension          2                        2                          100
Senior Technical Assistant             k                        2                          100
Wvision
ADA (Extension)                        2
JDA (Extension)                        5                        7                          140
- SMS                                   17                        7                         100
3Distnact
CAO/DDA                                30                       39                         00
SMS (Training & Information)           30
SMSglorticulture)                      30                       5                          17
.suti-Thivsion 
SDAEO                                  138                      106                        77
ASDAEO                                 138                      129                        93
- SMS (PP/Croo Prox>duction)          |276                      227                         82
VEw                                     .554                    26324                      _5
J.  & 
Research Officer                       1                        1--
Statistical Assistant                   2                        2                         100
Field Supervisor                       74                        14                        19
L State Ari. Plannine Cel                 __
ADA                                    I
Chief Econornist                        I
Chief Systems Analyst                   I                        I                         100
Assistant Dirctor                      4                        4                          100
Total                                  14300                       62TM
1/ This component is still ongoig being funded under NAEP-M (Cr. 1754-I). Physical achievenents given here are during the    period
1990/91 to 1992/93 under NAEP-I funding.



24
E.2 Civil Works and Vehicles
_rnRanne   aree (o.)                                         Actual (o.)                     Actualas 9bor anne a1ure         I
I Civil works                         _ne__ 2_ IN.__
Offices: Zone                     I7                                                         7
District                     23                        2                               6
Su-divi ion                  108                       5                               9
Hous.s SDAEO                       138 
SMS/ASDAEO                   138                       133                             6
VEW                           07                      913                              5
ZVehicles
Cars                               2                                                        100
Jeeps                              185                      180                              7
Vans                               7                        10                              ]40
E.3 Training
tern                                       nit             iannea larget       ctual             Actusl as        a or riannea
sraret
1, Vaila2e Extension Workenr
-nentaLion courses                        o.             r                                      d9
Fortnughtly courses                       o.              9.000              ,982                8
Refresher courses                         div.            185                 23                175
Special courses                         N.                173                 3                  8
Prornotional study                        div.            90                 1
.                                        Ict turs ahndiv.  1900
Monthly workshops                         o.              540                 48                 6
Special courses                         N.                10                 14                 140
Proxnotional study                        div.            6
Study tourIndiv.                                          80                 20                 25
Onenitston courses                      No______ _   '/S
Management courses                      No.               540                248                 6
Special courses                           o.              10                 14                 140
Study tours                               div.            6
- (venseas trairine                       ndiv,            80                 20                 25
Un-it__                                                  _  _   _  _
Onentiauon coure                                          2                                     100
Special courses                           div.            45                 3                  18



25
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Kemn                                    IAK LAtimate 17                              ual v     
l(Rs milliln        (Stnon)   m)[, nilliion)               I USS Million) V
al ncrementa staaf
Madhya Pradesh                          21.81 Si 98                               3
Orissa                                  21.49               1.96                 7.62               1.09
Rajasthan                               77.70               7.06                 96.00              12.32
Directorate of Extension                 6.09               0.55                17 000
Sutb-total                            |209                111.55               6501.7_
u'"     -taks
Madhya Pradesh                          80.88               7.35                 2.9Z                49
Orissa                                  134.85               12.26               113.71              15
Rajasthan                               88.90                8.08                3.20                .86
Directorate of Extension                12.10               1.10                 .380               112
dub-toa                               316.73              28.79                .36
uc)     ment                          ____ _
Madhya Pradesh                           1.63               .015                 8.54              p40
Orissa                                   4.62               0.42                 7.61               .44
Rajasthan                                2.52                0.23                11.50             p58
Directorate of Extension                2.45                0.22                 5.81                .30
Sub_total                             1 12202                                  3 .46
y.1rade,h                          13.24                1.20                           . 1      81
Orissa                                  9.30                0.85                  1.33              1.22
Rajasthan                               14.39                1.31                9.10                35
Directorate of Extension                0.31                0.03                 0.78              106
Sub total                           137.24                39                                      44
dhle) Pradesh                        12.01               .109                 7.25               .33
O issa                                  13.88               1.26                 7.58              p45
Rajasthz                                11.87                1.08                9.80                64
Directorate of Extension                30.88               2.81                35.03                76
Sub-total                             68.64               6.24                 9.66
Qncremental Operating Costs           __I______
Madhya Pradesh                           15.90               1.45                7.25               P37
Orissa                                  14.48               1.32                18.00              p97
Rajasthan                               23.01               2.09                  .40               1.91
Directorate of Extension                4.56                0.41                11.56               .58
Subt1                                                     5 9                        8273
jOSeclal ub p-roect
Directorate of Extension                91.67               8.33                8                   .94
recta tetudies                       I__
irectorate f Extension                11.00               1.00                172                1.11
ji)Utbr Pradesh (30irFcts) 4/            r_                                _
crement naf                                                                    746                11.70
Civil works                                                                     312.16              13.51
EquipmenL                                                                        15.30              0.82
Vehicles                                                                        48.61              2.45
Training                                                                         6.40               .26
OperatinE costs                                                                  18.90               .81
Sub-total                                                                     1 676_               9.55
Total                                 721.54              65.59                                     IT8039
1I Including price and physical contingencies.
Zv Based on data provided by each implementing agency.
3 Actual amount in USS obtained by using the average annual exchange rates (IMF).
4v This component was added in 1990 as a result of restructuring uf NAEP-I NAEP-U and NAEP-IIL



26
B. Project Financing
Source                A p p r a i s a I                   ctual
Estimate        l
(US$ million)   (%)                USS million)   (%)
IDA                   39.1             59.6               .4              3.4
GOI and States        26.5             40.4               8.7            6.6
Total                 65.6             100.0             83.1            100.0
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
No direct benefits were quantified in the SAR as is the practice for agricultural
extension proiects.
B. Economic Impact
(Not Applicable)
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)



27
D. Studiesl/
Sturtv  le                             Purpose                           lStatus           mactorStuaI
1. Scope  for  voluntary  agencies in To study modalities of involving Complete1  U            aindings of study helped in developin
agricultural research.                 voluntary organizations in agricultural           extension  programme  involvin
extension.                                        voluntarv organizations.
2   Measures  required  for  inprovuig To study opportunities to 1mprove ra           1 neindings of study were  used fo
technical skills of womnen in  agriculture,  women's involvement in agricultural          improving women's programnme
extension.
3   Feedback  provided  by extension To study approprnateness of fccdback Corpleted 1991 Findings of study are being used fo
functionaries and its impact on  research, mechanism for research.                        iorovin_ extension research linka es
4 Research support to extension.         o  y   improvement of research Copeted 199  Fings of study are being us
extension linkaRes.                               2mprovns linkaees
Input consumption and production  trend  To assess changes brought about on  C Ie M   5-indin a were taken up with concemre
fore and after intro- duction of T & V in introduction of T & V system.                  States for follow-up.
lected States.
Review of State M & E Units.           To review functioning of M & E unats Completed    Based on findings new `     sTE manua
in selected States.                1991           were produced.
/. Preparation  of Tamil Nadu  Agrnc lo conduct preliminary study fo- ZCompe          1    Study used for development ADP b
Development Proiect                    ADP                                                Tamil Nadu
Study of market planning for  Himachal
Pradesh, Jammu &    Kashmir. and Utta  )
radesh.                                  )                                                 Findin*s of study were used fo
) To study horticultural                          improving horticultural develomen
9 Study of technical support services  in  ) development in North-        Comnpleted 1991 stutegies in Himachal Pradesh= Jam
Himachal Pradesh, Janunu &   Kashmir. and ) West Region.                                   & KIashmiir, and Uttar Pradesh.
Uttar Pradesh.                           )
IO.Production, marketing & pnroessing   of )
emperate fruits and vegetables in  North- )
west Region.
lI.Pnnt and  mass media  support tc To assess pnnt and mass medim Completed1993 Reponis underscrutiny.
agricultural extension.            _   suw ort
12.Communication behaviour  of  fiela Fo assess coimunication problems  oMrpleted 1992 uFdLngs were sent to the States To
extension personnel with farmers.      between  extension  workers  and                   follow-up.
farmers.
3.Studies pertainting to catchment   area To study CAT and environment  Completed 1992 Findings were being used by Narmial
reatment and environmental  imnact,     imDact in Narmada Vallev.                          Vallev Deveo2Ment athoritv
4.Procurement and marketing services  of To conduct feasibility study on frui  on  d992 Fungs are under review.
tit and vegetables,                     and vesetable marketin_t_
15.Farmenr  rticpation in Agri-  cult] To work out models for farmer                         = mle   ModeLs developed would soon be pu
Research and Extension  System.        driven  extension  and  researc                    on trial in selected States.
systems.
I/ Special studies oonducted by using a discretionary fund provided under the project.



28
7. Status of Covenants
I)XA bection  Covenant                                     )eadline for tu'umplance       'Latus
3 02SGOI to establish Extension Tech. Advison Dec. 31,1984                               In compliance
3.06          tiOl  to  undertake  supervision  of al Unspecified                         In compliance
anc  t sntSates
3 Zg          GO1 to fumish IDA with semi-annusl progresr June & Dec. of each year        In compliance
rewnr S.
3.07(b)       GOI to cause DOE to fill staff positions on anIUnspecified                  Partial compliance
aRred schedule.
3(            GO  Lto complete a review of DOE componen LMarch 31, 1986                   Ln compliance
execution.
4.01(a)       GOI to maintain mecords and accounts of DO   Unspecified                    In compliance
401(a)i          1  to fumish  accounts and  statemenL  Withn 9 months o end   ea         In compliance
certified by an independent auditor.
r oJ e c t
greemen
ection__                                                     _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _
206          State Governments to carry out M  & E an] Each year                         RajasLhan complied wiLh but Madhy
fumish annual summaries                  _Pradesh and Orissa complied oarially.
Z 07         Stats Govemrments to ensure that all extensio  Unspecified                  All SLates complied with
staff be used exclusively for agricultural
extension.
Z0S           SLite Govemments to provide loans to extension Unspecified                  RajasLhan complied with but Madhya
staff for motorcyclelbicycle purchase and                                   Pradesh and Onssa complied panially.
ad.et,uat tr vel allowances.
2 0Y         State Govemments to fiLl incremental sRl lUnspecified                       Rajasthan complied with but Madhya
pws,i2  with aualified staff.                                               Pradesh and Orissa comelied paTtially.
2                       _0 State Govemments to complete a review  o  Sept 30 1986         Al States complied with
SLates eomwnen's
3T01(i)       State Govemments to maintain records an   nspecified                        Al States complied with
accounts of States' components.
iu            State GoveRmments to furnish accounts an |Within 9 monLhs of end ol each FY All States complied with
statements certified by an independent auditor. 
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 Total
Stage of Project Cycle
Identifiaticoan
PreparaLion              0.4   10.4       41                                                                              51.8
Appraisal                                 69.7     9.8                                                                     79.5
Negotiations                                       7.5                                                                      7.5
Supervision                                       24.3    37.7   19.6   12.1   13.5   16.3          22    11.1      6.8  163.4
Total                    0.4   10.4  110.7    41.6   37.7    19.6   12.1   13.5   16.3             22    11.1      6.8  302.2



29
B. Missions
tage or lrojec  MonWs/Year  N o .    a  I'ays   In speclaizauuon Kepresasted v  1          er r or mance . ype or
Cvele                      IPersons      Field                                        Ratine Status V    Problem 3/
tifcaton       N.A             A.        IN.A.        N.A.
araton T           1                        .        N.A.
Frearation 2     July 83       IN.A                     N.A.
ApDraisal        Dec. b3        3           1w A2.= E C
Sprtior      (July 85)4                                                              2                  F M
May 85        3             10         AG(3)                            -
Rajasthan       June 85        2            5           AG(2)
M. Pradesh      June 85        2            7           AG(2)
Su  ezsion 2      (F b. 86)4/   |     -                      --                                             F M
Rajasthan       Nov. 85        2            5           AG(2)
M. Pradesh      Jan. 86        3            5           AG(2)
Orissa          Feb. 86        3            6           AGQ3)
Supervision 3     (June 7)4/                  -                                            2
Rajasthan       May 86         2            5           AG(2)                                               -
M. Pradesh      Sept.86        2            5           AG, EX
GOVIDOE         Oct. 86       2             6          AG(2)
Orissa          Dec. 86    1  2             9           AG(2)                            2
Sucvso  4        (April 88)41  2-F. M
RajasLhan       May 87         3            6           AG, FA, FO                                           .
Orissa          Aug. 87        2            6           AG, EX
GOVDOE          Sept. 87       1            9          AG
M. Pradesh      Oct. 87        1              45/       EX
Rajasthan       Dec. 87        3            5           AG(2), EX
Orissa          Feb. 88        3            5           AG. EXQ(2)
Supevision     (Nov.88)4/    -                -                                            3                 F M
M. Pradesh      April 88       3            35/         AG(2), EX
GOVDOE          June 88       3             5          AG(2), EX
Orissa          July 88       4             7           EX(2), RS(2)
Rajasthan       Sept.88        3            5           AG, EX(2)
M. Pradesh      Oct. 88        3            25/         AG, EX(2)
Suervision 6      (May 89)4     | -                                                                          F.M
Oissa           Jan. 89        1            3           FA                               .
Rajasthan       Feb. 89        3            3           AG(3)
M Pradesh       ADrj1 8        4            2           AG. EC. RS(2)                                      -
S        n 7      (May 90)4/   1-                          .     .                        2                  F M
u. Pradesh      Oct. 89        3            3           AG, RS, SO                       -
Raiasthan       Dec. 89        2            6           AG,RS
GOIDOE          March 90      3             2          AG, EX(2)
M. Pradesh      March 90       2            5           AG(2)
Orissa          April 90      2             4           AG, RS
-Raiasthan      Aril 90        3           15           AG(2) RS
SupeTvision 8     (Jan. 91)4/                                                             2                  F M
Orissa          Sept.90       3             5           AG, EX, RS
M. Pradesh      Oct. 90        3            4           AG, EX, RS
Raiasthan       Nov. 90        4           16           AG. EC. FA RS
Supervision 9     (June 91)4/                                                             2                  F M
U.P. West       Jan. 91        3            5           EX(2)
Orissa          Jan. 91        4            5           AG(2), EX, RS
M. Pradesh      Feb. 91        2            N.A.        AG, EX
Ra'asthan       March 91      14           15          AG. EC. EX. RS
Supervision 10   (March 92)4/                                                             2                 M
U.P. West       April 91       3            5           AG, EX(2)
Rajasthan       SepL 91        2            6           AG(2)
Orissa          Dec. 91       2             5           AG, RS
M. Pradesh      Jan. 92       2             5           AG EX
Suprvision  (I (July 92)4/    -                                                                              M
U.P. West       June 92        1            3           EX
GOIIDOE         July 92        1            1           EX
Orissa          July 92        1            6           RS
M. Pradesh      Julv 92        1            5           AG
Supervis=on       (. )6tI 
- M. Pradesh    March 93       2            5           EX(2)
ronpl etion       ly 93                       2          AG  EX



30
I/ Specialization: AG = Agriculturist; DO = Disbursement Officer, EC = Economist; EX = Extension Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst;
FO = Forestry Specialist; RS = Researrh Specialist; SO = SociologiSL
ZV Performance Rating Status: I = No significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems, significant but not critical deviations from    project
goals; 3 = Major problems, serious enough to require special attention and usually intensive supervision; 4 = As in 3.,  but the problems are
not being addressed adequately.
3/ Type of Problems: F = Financial; M = Management; P = Political; T = Tedcnical.
4/ MonthNear of Form 590 issued. The project supervision was undertaken by NDO throughout the isnplementation period. Since   the
proiect covered a wide-geographical location (three States, later increased to four States), separate supervision missions, each   conprising 2
to 3 secialists. were sent for *bout a week for each State at about 6 month intervals. Each team produced a Field   Repot on compietion of
the vusits. Formal supervision reports with Form 590 were produced by the Agricultural Unit of NDO.   based on these Field Reports,
annually, with a few exceptions.
5/ Estimated days in field because mission worked on supervision of other ongoing project but did not specify the time spent on each.
6/ No form 590 issued.
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each stage of the project
cycle.



Project Completion Report
INDIA. Natbnal Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1523-IN)
Annex 1: Trends in Crop Productlvhy and Production
TAle 1. MadbPya P aas
.-~~            , -w  n-         u_-   iW                A       IY 7 .Jw                          -        .                 -             Uw   ,N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adx......  I
-   -    -           -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fo*- -                                                                                .1        -
Fw         115            t    tm                               Is.a1  15 19 11  11
15         131         go            (1                                    I            131           1             (8)            11
82         U             1.1                       17          16N           139          go            1.C            18
arm                                            a    ~ ~~~~~~~~~ Mt                                199         1            120            231                          9
1la        91                          94          146          123          lag           34
. =   al     a           "           a           a                 F             r    -              a             --   ;   i-
96  1W        1W  ~~~~(B51                            12          19  113                                  (587g)        +15
all -  mIX 123         121                           1         121 136 11                              99           16685 43
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nr  >-
*W         97                                       1(2         91           10n           91                          -3
S4hwoweek997                                                              95                          98          91           9            87          81       1                    -9
97          94          1D          93                          92          90          BB           98            874                          -6
1la        la                                      11           16B          184           841                         40
138        1a                                      161         Um            19             9                           16
oom oweeb                   ~~10        93           Be         74                          goU         97          13            9            68                           .5
pub"                                ~~     ~ ~~~~90  1(3     96                          97          1(3          96          11+                                         8
178        199                                                                                            1            .99
8wmw, Doduudmid AUbu*Wah Mq2d



Project Completion Report
INDIA: National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1523-IN)
Annex 1: Trends in Crop Productivity and Production
TWh 2. Orbs1
.....                                                                                     n~dex) ....
1 . ._ F 1{ EV ~~~~- 1  F .7-
..                      D      ,~~~~~~~.....                                                                       ..........|=                                                                |
l  a   1m           15s            ID             1n            127            ~~~~ ~        ~ ~~       ~      ~~     ~     ~~~ ~        ~ ~~~~(573)  94r  T)4 115T92  Or       (786)            +17
P      _}                    tm des                         t33            18S           157             t,l(               19           175            22              159              1                                 -9
1           13t           151             (1.711)11                        157           185              154            1S                                 +20
Finsrni                                       982           84             93            81               192             1C8    109                                    114             1723
s    _mwn                                     86            94             98            96                1)              96                           lC9             1S              82                  4              +
G.umm                                        t3              11            12            t9              I1                1C8           113           1C a20                           27              1                 0
maize                                         85      8       7            as            as             1,O      Z         a              97            97              103                                                1C51,17 8 S
Liu d                        tm               84           o8               81           83                                so             as             89             85              87               (484)             +S
VA-                          t                94            911          I87             an             I'm>               77             AR          I|              I An              R1 Al            I FL-A
L e p-               ~            ~_                              _ 1- 12.4  f            (10a               11            lS              t7111R-1                                                          2
P - _                        am               go            88             98            92               (542\            83             97            98              95               0               (536)             -1
oind                                                       Et                            104              1744C                          1017                           114             III              (786)             +8 
b_.x .                                                                                       ........
*   P        t  -           tO7           tC5           ~~~      ~     ~~~      ~     ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~              ~~1C8  1C8s  (4A 1C3  Hc6  tCR  |1ClC                 112             t4_5               +1
OtF_       ~ c                               t25             C8            96            87               (769             82             s0            76              74              75               (575             -25
Pub                                           28                          1t20           122            (1.84              28            123            125             132             132             ZO                 12
Oied                                          20                           118           119              (t7               1629    13                    3             135       U O                    1.1      3       .18
Predud   ...........                                                    0.'(00 ton) ei'                                                                                           )        7F
'de      ..                                                                                  nd.x) ....
.........                                                                                    .........
Pale    t  '           171            139           I75           ~~      ~      ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~162  (4451'- 177  -20175-                223                 7))+2
oU wm~                               tC877                          85                   66              (661)             74             79            75              77              77               (75)             -13
Pu                            m               13            91             117           112               9               1C8           118                             25             119              1.10)             11
OGbed                                                        12           162            124              pl1)             134           141           1I2              156             1S6              (880)            +25
Smww  Dws_rgs d AqiA. md Food P               dm D             .



Project Completion Report
INDIA: National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1523-IN)
Annex 1: Trends in Crop Productivity and Production
Tabb 1 RJbjaahan
lWibWu                        VUOMbll A_OO   O1WtA    mIm                                               lWI            llWWIIvU       1VImM       l WIn              I        ArmsIR   u
livel_s            ~ ~....... ..  .l                                                                                                                             
Whos                     ;                           i      l      i F    12           10             (IR                             12             11              13D      S                                        2
~w  in- in  w- in   v  u_- .   w- 
S.,    miJi_0                 D              5                           1(2           64              41               59            17            1as            1mg              59              (                -9
Grawn m1                                                   8            III           78                               OD tSD                       t3              SI             as .m
Seownwn  19D  192   57           23                               46            22             315            3ffi            las                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.99
Gund nut                                    16)            119U7                      115                             | 52  1  8s     I B  189      1t614                           1t8u 1.22
' aemb                       1 D            I                                                                          Ti     -       1255 9  1               -                             D 
S<:ood                       icD             37            18            IOD          125              156                            179           178             H2              161 J34
(OW hm)
..........                                                          rwe~~~~~~~~~~~ndx) ....
VVhoo  1CD         04            83             as           89                               74~~~~~~~~2366  9  asD       so              96             as2.                             -71
pLdus                 O~~~D          05            96            110           91       ~      3.2              51             83            83             104             50              -.78 
Mruc~~~tlon-                                                   -('00  tatons) 
.........                                                         p~~~~~~~~~~~ndox)....
PMO rrdlm                        76~~~5         78,           52            7013                                           150          1I               10 -                            .
Whad          91             1             103           89                              ~~~~~~                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~77  109  89  114      11898
Cther cwoeb               50            135           ~~~~~~144     17              (943              96           25138                          13                                                0
SowCS: Depamulti d A uItAas Ja!wf.



