Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4983-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
August 28, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1 = Rupees (Rs) 11.0
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA       -        Additional Director of Agriculture
ADAO      -        Assistant District Agricultural Officer(s)
AEO       -        Agricultural Extension Officer(s)
ASDAO     -        Assistant Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
DA        -        Director of Agriculture
DAO       -        District Agricultural Officer(s)
DDA       -        Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA       -        Department of Economic Affairs
DOA       -        Department of Agriculture
DOE       -        Directorate of Extension
EEI       -        Extension Education Institute(s)
ERR       -        Economic Rate of Return
ETAC      -        Extension Technical Advisory Committee
FEU       -        Field Extension Unit
GOI       -        Government of India
GOMP      -        Government of Madhya Pradesh
GOO       -        Government of Orissa
GOR       -        Government of Rajasthan
GSTK      -        Gram Sevak Talim Kendras (Training Centers)
ICAR      -        Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IDA       -        International Development Association
JDA       -        Joint Director of Agriculture
,OA       -        Ministry of Agriculture
M&E       -        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAEP      -        National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP      -        National Agricultural Research Project
OUAT      -        Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology
SAU       -        State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAO      -        Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
SMS       -        Subject Matter Specialist(s)
T&V       -        Training and Visit System
VEW       -        Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW       -        Village Level Worker(s)
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif            -          June to September
Rabi                         October to February
Summer            -          March to May



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .........................................            1
Introduction              .........................*........ 
Indian Agricultural Development   . ........ 
Agricultural Extension in India ..............o..             2
Orissa (Credit 682-IN) .........         .    .     .        4
West Bengal (Credit 690-IN)            . . .                  6
Madhya Pradesh (Credits 712 and 1138-IN) .........            7
Assam (Credit 728-IN) .      . .....8-........... ,           8
Rajasthan (Credit 737-IN)             . . .                  8
Bihar (Credit 761-IN) .      . ........................ ..   9
Gujarat (Credit 862-IN) ....................... .            10
Haryana (Credit 862-IN) .................... ..              10
Karnataka (Credit 862-IN)o.       . ...o ...............     10
Kerala (Credit 1028-IN)   .      .................. .......  11
Maharashtra (Credit 1135-IN) ................... .           11
Tamil Nadu (Credit 1137-IN) .     . ....       .....        11
Andhra Pradesh (Credit 1219-iN)          .    .    .         12
Directorate of Extension (Credit 862-IN) .........           12
Lessons Learned ............... ..............               13
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE           ..                  14
A.  Administrative Consolidation.......... oo ......           15
B.  Consolidation of Extension Infrastructure ......           15
C.  Improvement in the Quality..... ........                   16
D.  Broadening and Deepening of Coverage ...... o....          16
E.  Strengthening Linkages between Extension
and Research... ............... o- ...........          16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to India in December 1983. Mission members included: Messrs.
D. W. Jeffries (Sr. Economist/Financial Analyst and Mission
Leader), G. S. Kalkat (Sr. Agriculturalist) and John Lindt
(Agriculturalist), IDA. R. Findlay was responsible for the
layout and typing of the report and S. Aldecos for the cost
tables.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of
their official duties. Its contents may not owherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-il-
III.  THE PROJECT ........................................            17
A.  General ....................................... 17
B.  Detailed Features -  State Componentso..0.0....            18
Nadhya Pradeshb..o............................             20
Rajastban ............................. o ..................  21
Orissa ............................ ..............        ........ 22
C.  Detailed Features - Ministry of Agriculture...
Directorate of Extension.....................            23
D.  Special Subprojects to Provide Specialized d...
Support to Etension.........................            25
E.  Fund for Special Studies............. ..........           28
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING.......................             28
A.  Cost Estimates .................................           28
B.  Proposed Financing .................. ....... ....         30
C.  Procurement ................. se...... 00......           ............... 31
D.  Disbursement, Accounts and Audit...............            32
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . ......................            34
A.  General ...................................... 34
B.  Ministry of Agriculture/DOE ....................0          34
C.  Extension Technical Advisory Committee9...9.9..            34
D.  Departmental Sanctioning and Expenditure..t.ure
Finance Committees ....... ....................         35
E.  Project Management ........................  ......        35
Preparation of Subprojects ...................          36
Appraisal of Special Subprojects .............e          36
F.  State Extension Organization...................            36
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation ......................           38
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ......      .......................          39
A.  Benefits of Improved Extension .................           39
B.  Risks ..........................................           42
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS .......            45
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
4.1 - Summary of Project Costs by Subproject .............            29
4.2 - Sumiary of Project Costs by Expenditures...........             30
4.3 - Project Financing ...................9999.....                  31



-iii-
List of Annexes
ANNEX 1 - T&V-based Agricultural Extension
ANNEX 2 - Status of ID&-financed Agricultural Extension Projects
ANNEX 3 - Criteria for Participation in NAEP
ANNEX 4 - Summary Data on State Subprojects
ANNEX 5 - Orissa State Subproject
Table 501  -  Trends in Crop Productivity and
Production
Table 502  -  Incremental Staff Costs
Table 503  -  Civil Works (Detailed Costs)
Table 504  -  Vehicles and Equipment (Detailed Costs)
Table 505  -  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 506  -  Training Costs
Chart 25987- Proposed Organization of Agricultural
Extension
ANNEX 6 - Madhya Pradesh State Subproject
Table 600  - Yield and Production of Major Crops in
the Project Area (Credit 712-IN)
Table 601  - Yield Indices of Major Crops
Table 602  -  Incremental Staff Costs
Table 603  -  Civil Works (Detailed Costs)
Table 604  -  Vehicles and Equipment (Detailed Costs)
Table 605  -  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 606  -  Training Costs
ANNEX 7 - Rajasthan State Subproject
Table 702  -  Incremental Staff Costs
Table 703  -  Civil Works (Detailed Costs)
Table 704  -  Vehicles and Equipment (Detailed Costs)
Table 705  -  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 706  -  Training Costs
ANNEX 8 - Ministry of Agriculture/Directorate of Extension
Subproject
Table 802  -  Incremental Staff Costs
Table 803  -  Civil Works (Detailed Costs)
Table 804  -  Vehicles and Equipment (Detailed Costs)
Table 805  -  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 806  -  Training Costs



-iv-
Chart 25970 - Directorate of Agricltural Extension
Organization before Project
Chart 26574 - Proposed Organization for the Ministry
and the Directorate of Extension
ANNE   9 - Project Cost St-nary
ANNEX 10 - Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 11 - Estimated IDA Disbursements
ANNEX 12 - Disbursement Profile for Completed Extension Projects
in India
ANNEX 13 - Recommended Staffing Pattern for States
ANNEX 14 - Training Guidelines
ANNEX 15 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
World Bank 17967R - India
World Bank 18060 - Madhya Pradesh
World Bank 18061R - Orissa
World Bank 18062R - Rajasthan



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:         The States of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and
Orissa and the Government of India's
Ministry of Agriculture Extension Division
and Directorate of Extension.
Amount:                SDR 38.6 million (US$39.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
On-Lending Terms:      From GOI to the Governments of Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Orissa as part of Central
assistance to State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:  The project would (i) strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system introduced in
Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa under Phase I
projects: (ii) reorganize and strengthen the Central
Government's Extension Division and Directorate of
Extension in order to increase their ability to support
more effectively State agricultural extension programs
and to perform more effectively their coordinating and
policy guidance role throughout India; and (iii)
provide funds to assist in the financing of projects
for extension reform, special studies and special sub-
projects, and the supervision, monitoring and evaluation
of said activities.



-vi-
Estimated Cost: i/
(US$ millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
Incremental Staff                           9.5            -              9.5
Civil Works                                20.7           1.1            21.8
Vehicles and Equipment                      2.9           0.8             3.8
Incremental Operating Costs                 4.3           0.1             4.4
Training                                    5.1            -5 1
Subtotal                                 42.5           2.0           44.5
Physical Contingencies                      2.2           0.1             2.3
Price Contingencies                         9.2           0.3             9.5
Subtotal                                 53.9           2.4            56.3
Special Subprojects Fund                    7.5           0.8             8.3
Project Preparation Fund                    0.9           0.1             1.0
TOTAL                                    62.3           3.3            65.6
mm.m
j.J Includes taxes and duties of US$1.1 million equivalent.



-vii-
FinancinR Plan:
PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ millions)
Source                    IDA         Total
Madhya Pradesh          G0MP                  5.4            7.8          13.2
Orissa                  GOO                   7.5           10.6          18.1
Rajasthan               GOR                   8.2           11.7          19.9
DOE                     GOI                   2.1            3.0           5.1
Special Subprojects    GOI                    3.3            5.0           8.3
Project Preparation                            -            -1.0           1.0
TOTAL                                    26.5           39.1          65.6
Percentage                               40.4           59.6         100.0
Estimated Disbursements: 11
(US$ millions)
FY 85    FY 86    FY 87    FY 88    FY 89    FY 90
Annual             1.6       5.5       9.5     11.1       8.5       2.9
Cumulative         1.6       7.1     16.6      27.7      36.2      39.1
Appraisal Report:               No. 4983-IN, dated August 28, 1984
1/ According to IDA fiscal year.



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    The proposed National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP) would
be the thirteenth in a series of IDA-assisted projects designed to reor-
ganize and strengthen agricultural extension in Indian states and the
central government. This chapter reviews the relevance of such assistance
to the Bank's agricultural program in India, experience with each of these
projects, the main problems encountered during implementation and the
lessons learned. As several states were completing their first five-year
IDA-assisted projects and other states were interested in introducing such
projects, the Government of India (GOI) and the Bank proposed that NAEP
be considered to assist several states as well as to strengthen GOI's
Directorate of Extension (DOE). In 1982, staff from the Bank's Resident
Mission in India began holding discussions w;.h DOE and the states which
might be included in NAEP. As draft reports prepared by the state govern-
ments and the DOE became available, they were reviewed and modified.
Preparation missions visited India in February and July 1983. An
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. D. W. Jeffries, G. S. Kalkat and
J. H. Lindt visited India between December 1 and 21, -383.
Indian Agricultural Development
1.02    The Bank's agricultural program in India during the past 15 years
has had the objective of assisting India to achieve self-sufficiency in
foodgrains and to increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. The Bank
is actively involved in some 60 agricultural projects representing large
investments in infrastructure and expanded agricultural services. With
the remarkable increases in foodgrain production in recent years, India
has attained effective self-sufficiency, despite a population growth rate
of 2.2%, although a shortage of edible oils persists. Nevertheless,
further efforts to improve agricultural productivity are needed to meet
the increase in demand which comes with growth of population and incomes,
and even though the country may have a favorable foodgrains balance, a
large part of the rural population can neither produce nor buy what it
needs. Furthermore, the rate of yield increases has been falling and
parts of the country are never far from agricultural stagnation. The
projections of demand for foodgrain by the terminal year of the Seventh
Five Year Plan (1990) call for foodgrain production of 168-170 MT, com-
pared with 1983/84 production of about 150 MT, which represents an annual
growth rate of about 3% compared with the long-term growth rate, 1967/68
to 1981/82, of 2.472. A number of factors point to the increasing dif-
ficulty which India will have to achieve this ambitious target.



1.03    Almost 90% of the increase in foodgrain production in the post
Green Revolution period has come from wheat and rice, which together cover
only about half the total area under food crops, mainly the relatively
better endowed, more homogeneous regions in Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar
Pradesh and the delta regions of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. They are
also predominately irrigated areas. Future yield increases in both wheat
and rice, the main sources of past growth, will be more difficult to
achieve than past yield increases and are likely to give less impressive
results. In the past, the increase was mostly from adopting the
high-yielding seed-fertilizer-irrigation technology by farmers who were
capable of taking the limited risks of adoption of such new technology.
Such areas are now beginning to experience second generation problems,
such as increasing pest and disease problems and micro-nutrient deficien-
cies. Future sustained increases in yields in wheat and rice will depend
in part upon the farmers' adoption of even more sophisticated technology.
1.04    Irrigation systems which are now being developed and those most
likely to be developed in the future are mostly in the heterogeneous,
mainly southern regions, where cropping intensities in irrigated areas
have been low. This will present more difficult technical and managerial
problems than those experienced in past irrigation development. Although
the potential for wheat and rice production is large in the eastern
region, it has generally lagged in agricultural development and future
achievement there is also problematic. Although there is considerable
scope for increasing production in irrigated areas, most of the future
increase in foodgrain production will have to come from rainfed regions,
from oilseeds and pulses and from sorghum and millets which are the staple
diet of the rural poor. These regions, which will constitute 60% of the
farming areas even when the nation's irrigation potential has been fully
developed, are much more heterogeneous than those from which most of the
increases in wheat and rice production have come and present greater
problems both in developing the technology needed for the many
agro-climatic zones and in transferring to the farmers of these regions
improved technology for rainfed farming. Yield increases of edible oil-
seeds have not been significant, with recent increases in production
mainly due to the extension of areas under their cultivat. ., often mar-
ginal lands.
1.05    The above outline of the future pattern of agricultural develop-
ment in India points to the crucial role which improved agricultural
research and extension will have to play in helping the country to meet
the future challenges facing agriculture. improving agricultural exten-
sion services remains one of the main relativelv low-cost means of
increasing agricultural productivity, of making more effective use of past
infrastructure investments and of reaching all farmers, particularly th4-
smaller ones.
ARricultural Extension in India
1.06    Soon after independence, GOI began sponsoring a number-
designed to meet the need for mcre effective, iountr:.,ide Jgr::



development: the Community Development Programme in 1952, National Exten-
sion Service Blocks ii. 1953, Intensive Agricultural District Programmes in
1960, Intensive Agricultural Area Programmes in 1963-64, Small and Mar-
ginal Farmers Development Programme in 1969-70. Despite their prolifera-
tion, these programs covered a small portion of the farmers, generally the
wealthier. Recognizing that a better approach would be required to
achieve a more broadly based increase in agricultural output and in
response to changing rural and adminigerative conditions, GOI, with IDA
assistance, introduced a different approach, tried in several countries
before India and generally known as the "training and visit system" (T&V).
It was first tried in India through pilot projects in the Rajasthan Canal
Command Area Development Project (Credit 502-IN, 1974) and in the Chambal
Command Area Development Project in Madhya Pradesh (Credit 562-IN, 1975)
and since adopted in various states commencing in 1977. The methodology,
organization and components financed under this system are described in
Annex 1. It aims at increasing the productivity on farms and the income
of farmers by simultaneously addressing constraints to the transfer of new
agricultural technology from research to the farmer and to the feedback
from the farmer that must orient research and other government organiza-
tions to actual farm problems. Some of the changes introduced are
organizational (single-line control, exclusive responsibility), others are
operational (fixed, regular contact between farmers and extension,
coverage, mobility, housing in the field) and still others relate to the
linkage between research and extension (regular meetings and workshops of
extension and research staff, systematic feedback of farmers' problems and
responses to research).
1.07    Under the system of multi-purpose field workers which the reformed
system replaces, extension personnel were burdened with heavy paper work
and such non-extension duties as input delivery and administration of
various subsidized schemes, which tended to dissipate extension efforts in
many uncoordinated directions and divert attention and resources from the
need to reform the main line extension agency. There were usually too few
staff to cover the farming community adequately. They lacked mobility to
reach farmers systematically and regularly, had practically no training in
relevant technology and saw limited prospects for advancement. Most
extension personnel had low status, low pay and poor morale. In addition,
there was virtually no linkage between extension and research. Without
this linkage, it is difficult to justify the considerable investment being
made in igricultural research. Improved technology is of little benefit
if it cannot be made available to farmers and, conversely, it is difficult
to develop useful research unless there is sound feedback between farm and
research -- both roles for extension.
1.08    The Bank's experience over the past ten years with India's con-
siderable effort to improve agricultural extension and research has con-
firmed what was recognized when the T&V approach was first being intro-
duced on a larger scale: that in a democratic state with a well-entrenched
bureaucracy, institutional changes take time, especially where such large
numbers of people are involved as in the Indian states. The thirteen
htata-i which have introduced improved agricultural extension with IDA
assistance, together, will eventually reach about 70% of India's farm



- 4 -
families. In these states, there are to be some 66,000 Village Extension
Workers (VEW), 8,800 Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO), 3,300 Subject
Matter Specialists (SMS), 900 Subdivisional Agricultural Officers (SDAO),
60 Assistant SDAO, 400 District Agricultural Officers (DAO) and Assistant
DAO, and 60 Zonal Joint Directors and Additional Directors of Agriculture.
However, the extension service represents only a small part of the total
civil service in any state (e.g., in Andhra Pradesh only about IZ) but
because of the close and often unique field relationship with farmers
(which represent the vast majority of every state's population) agricul-
tural extension is particularly vulnerable to outside pressures, for
purely non-technical reasons. Although geared to existing institutions,
substantial reorganization was needed in all states to deal with the major
problems experienced under the former structure. The new system also
calls for major attitudinal changes on the part of extension staff,
farmers, agricultural researchers and government officials, both within
and outside departments of agriculture. Given these circumstances, as
IDA's experience with these projects confirms, firm commitment at govern-
ment level and strong departmental management are central to successful
implementation.
1.09    Together the above factors have given rise to a number of problems
which have been commonly experienced in all agricultural extension
projects financed by the Bank Group especially during the early years of
implementation: involvement of extension staff in non-extension
activities; excessive reporting and statistical workload on field staff;
insufficient research-generated technology, especially for rainfed areas
and tribal areas; poor feedback from field to research; weak
inter-ministerial and inter-departmental coordination; transportation
shortages and restrictions; poor monitoring and evaluation; late submis-
sion of audited financial reports; weak technical supervision and
shortages of appropriately trained subject matter specialists; slow provi-
sion of housing for field staff; and slow use of training funds. Such
problems have been continuously addressed during project supervision and
most have diminished over time. However, the continuing involvement of
extension staff in non-extension activities and the problems concerning
the technology being extended to farmers are two of the most intransigent;
both are given special attention under the proposed NAEP. The reviews
which follow summarize the particular problems and achievements of the
individual state projects assisted by IDA as well as the GOI Directorate
of Extension project which was a component of the Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Credit 862-IN). Annex 2 gives the present status of
physical components as measured against appraisal targets for-the state
projects. The location of these projects and the proposed NAEP are shown
in Map 17967.
Orissa (Credit 682-IN. April 1. 1977. US$20 M)
1.10    The Orissa Agricultural Development Credit became effective
July 1, 1977 and the project was completed June 30, 1983. Although a
multi-component project, the major focus was on reorganization of exten-
sion and research and it was one of the first IDA-assisted projects to
support the training and visit extension methodology on a statewide basis.



-5-
By the closing date, June 30, 1984, around $1.5 M of the credit remained
undisbursed and the savings will revert to IDA. Overall physical perfor-
mance has been good and most targets achieved. No major, formal changes
were made in project design during implementation, but there have been
some changes in staffing. Early in the project the number of field level
workers was increased to take better account of variations in population
density and Development Block boundaries, with corresponding increases in
supervisory and support staff. Some changes were also made to Subject
Matter Specialist (SMS) positions to ensure better technical backup in
agronomy and plant protection. A number of staff vacancies have impeded
progress, particularly in the more remote tribal areas where the extension
service has been less effective than in the more populous coastal area.
Scheduled castes and tribes make up nearly 40% of Orissa's population and
although there are indisations that the improved extension service is
already having a positive effect on agricultural production in these more
isolated areas, the need for further attention has been recognized. Spe-
cial efforts are being made to improve coverage and supervision of field
staff and to develop better recommendations '..: the crops and production
conditions typical of these areas.
1.11    In 1982, IDA provided assistance to Orissa State to review exist-
ing organizations and make recommendations for staffing and institutional
changes that were required to fulfill the monitoring id evaluation (M&E)
requirements. The recommendations were accepted, have been introduced and
will be further supported under the proposed NAEP (para 3.13). Despite
the limited M&E to date, data have been collected and field supervision
confirms the indication that farmers are being visited regularly and that
there have been considerable increases in the rates of adoption of recoin-
mended crop production practices (particularly of rice, the main crop).
Annex 5, Table 501 expresses yield trends which span the five-year
pre-project years and the five years since project inception. When yields
are viewed in conjunction with production, a clear pattern emerges. A
major advance in rice productivity appears to have occurred, particularly
for autumn and winter (kharif) rice which together account for around 95%
of the gross area planted to the crop. This increase would appear to have
been the trigger for diversification into other crops. Productivity
increase in the case of these other crops has been more variable and
project period averages have been depressed by the particularly severe
drought in 1979/80. However, because of the major expansion in area
planted, production of the non-rice crops has increased by between 40 and
70X while rice production, despite a fall in area planted of 6%, has also
increased by 4%.
1.12    Records of fertilizer consumption are consistent with these
production achievements and show that consumption has increased by 33%
during project implementation. Gross cropped area has also increased (by
15%) and when account is taken of this, the increase in the per hectare
application rate is 15%; however, the 1982/83 per hectare application rate
was also 33% higher than the pre-project period average and the applica-
tion rate has increased regularly over the life of the project.



-6-
1.13    The appraisal calculation showed that an increase of 7.7 kglha of
paddy over the entire pre-project paddy area (4.5 million ha) would make
the project investments break even; A1  this would be equivalent to around
5 kg/ha of rice. During the project period, real prices (in constant
terms) have risen by around 150%, ]) and this would reduce the
"break-even" yield increase to around 3.5 kg/ha of rice. To have achieved
a 50% rate of return, the corresponding yield increase would need to be
around 6.0 kg/ha of rice which is less than 1% of the pre-project average
rice yields and is equivalent to around 27,000 tons of rice. In fact,
yields appear to have increased by around 18% (composite rice average
based on 1981/82 areas of kharif and summer rice), and even when account
is taken of the decline in the area sown, there appears to have been a
production increase of 4%, equivalent to 140,000 tons of rice. In addi-
tion, the production of other foodgrains and oilseeds has increased by
635,000 tons. Not all of these changes can be attributed to extension
because the decomposition of production change is inherently difficult.
1.14    While the development impact of the project is yet to be fully
realized, a firm structure for future agricultural development has been
established and there is every reason to believe that the full impact will
be realized. At the same time, various moves to revert the administrative
control of field level workers to Block Development Officers, while suc-
cessfully resisted, are a reminder of difficulties inherent in maintaining
support for project activities after external finance has ceased. Further
details on the project are given in para 3.13 and in Annex 5 on the
proposed Orissa NAEP subproject, and in Project Files.
West Bengal (Credit 690-IN. June 1. 1977. US$12.0 M)
1.15    The West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Credit effec-
tive in August 1977 and the project was scheduled to be completed by
September 30, 1984. Several years were spent attempting to get the
reformed extension system accepted and to overcome legal and administra-
tive difficulties (especially on staffing transfer) and progress was
minimal. There now appears to be a considerable degree of commitment to
the project and its approach. Implementation is improving in many areas:
staffing (transfer of VLW to the extension service has been accomplished
and filling of other sanctioned research staff and extension posts is
progressing); civil works, disbursements, financial reporting and monitor-
ing and evaluation are all gaining momentum; field activities are improv-
ing; farmers are starting to adopt recommended technology; and training is
receiving more attention. Action to extend the credit will depend on
further progress in these areas.
jJ i.e., would give a rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of
capital (12%).
ZI Based on the economic index in the World Bank Report No. 4395-IN,
April 1983.



- 7 -
Madhya Pradesh (Credit 712. June 1. 1977. US$10.0 M and Credit 1138-IN.
May 7. 1981. US$37.0 M)
1.16    The Hadhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Credit
(712-IN) became effective on September 2, 1977 and the project was com-
pleted on schedule in March 1983. The project was designed to reorganize
and strengthen extension services in 15 out of 45 administrative districts
in the state and to improve research operations. As a result of achieve-
ments under the first credit, the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension
Phase II Project (Credit 1138-IN) was approved in 1981 to improve exten-
sion services in the rest of the state. A project to continue extension
improvement in all districts is included in the proposed NAEP credit
(paras 3.10-3.11 and Annex 6). Most physical targets of the first project
were achieved by project completion and summary indicators are given in
Annex 2.
1.17    Although structural reorganization was quickly initiated, there
were delays in achieving targets, with persistent staff vacancies at
district level and below. These had been largely resolved by 1982, but
then around 1500 extension staff reverted to the Planning and Development
Department with the decision to reestablish the Block Development struc-
ture. Current VEW staffing is only 75% of the appraisal target, but new
posts to make good the shortfall are to be sanctioned and filling them
is a condition of participating in the NAEP.
1.18    Significant achievements have been made under the two projects in
establishing a structure on which further improvements can be built. The
importance of sound and relevant training has been recognized and a
five-year master plan has been prepared for training extension staff.
Steps have been taken to upgrade the skills of existing SNS and the
recruitment criteria for new SMS. The difficulties experienced by exten-
sion in providing satisfactory technology and advice to farmers is in turn
placing strong pressure on research to respond to these needs. Ongoing
developments under the National Agricultural Research Project (Credit
855-IN, December 7, 1978) also provide a good basis for overcoming the
problems associated with extension program-related staff and funding at
research stations.
1.19    Attempts to measure the direct effects of the first phase project
depend on measurements of production changes, farmer contact and adoption
of recommendations and the results of evaluation surveys which aim to
relate crop yields to the cultural practices that have been adopted.
These indicate that the project is having a very positive impact. The
figures indicate a high rate of awareness of VEW identity, with the per-
centages rising steadily over the life of the project (to over 95% for
contact farmers and 90% for others), clearly showing the widespread
coverage of the system, although it should be noted that these surveys
excluded areas where VEW posts were vacant. Figures also indicate high
rates of adoption of some recommended practices and the overwhelming
importance of extension staff as the source of technical knowledge amongst
farmers. Technology requiring modest financial outlays is understandably



much more widely adopted than those requiring more substantial expendi-
tures and for the latter there are generally many more adopters using
partial recommendations than the full level. Non adoption due to the late
receipt of information reflects on extension performance, but this appears
to have declined in importance in recent years. Also, relatively few
farmers appear to have expressed doubts about the technical merit of the
technology they are receiving. Another interesting result of these sur-
veys is that for most crops and most practices, there is no discernible
relationship between adoption rates and farm size.
Assam (Credit 728-IN, June 20. 1977. US$8.0 M)
1.20    The Assam Agricultural Development Credit became effective in
September 1977 and was due to close on March 31, 1984 but has been
extended by a year. Notwithstanding civil disturbances early in 1983,
good progress continues to be made and field extension activities are
satisfactory in most areas. Most extension staff positions are filled;
civil works construction has picked up; training activities are being
given renewed emphasis; and credit withdrawals show improvement.
Raiasthan (Credit 737-IN. November 14. 1977. US$13.0 M)
1.21    The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Credit became
effective on September 21, 1977 and the project was completed on March 31,
1983. The credit was fully disbursed in August 1983. The project was
designed to reorganize and strengthen extension services in 17 out of the
26 administrative districts of the state and to improve research opera-
tions, especially as they related to extension activities. Extension
improvement in Rajasthan would be continued under the proposed NAEP.
1.22    Overall, the project achieved commendable progress during its
first three years and by 1980 reorganized extension was in many respects
ahead of appraisal expectations both in terms of operation and impact.
Then various administrative problems began to impede performance, the most
significant being serious disruption of leadership (frequent changes at
all levels and lengthy periods of vacancy) and the uncertain status of the
substantial number of field level staff on deputation from the Development
Department to the Department of Agriculture.  In 1983, the latter problem
came to a head with the reversion of 984 VEW and 120 AEO to the Develop-
ment Department and a further 200 to 300 VEW almost certain to do
likewise. Extra posts have been sanctioned to replenish these numbers and
most have now been filled.
1.23    Despite the seriuus difficulties that extension is facing in
Rajasthan, there have been significant qualitative and quantitative
improvements in the extension service. In districts where it has con-
tinued to operate well, there has been conspicuous evidence of its effect.
Despite poor official statistics for production, serious data discrepan-
cies and difficulties introduced by the severe drought conditions which
spanned the years 1979-80 Ehrough 1982-83 (with consequent irregular
supply of electricity and water availability in wells), the impression
gained is favorable. Foodgrain production was more or less sustained



-9-
during the drought period and there is evidence of a significant lift in
crop yields from 1980-81 onwards compared with pre-project levels.
Indeed, for most crops, the yields achieved in 1981-82 and 1982-83 are
between 7Z and 30X higher than for the two years preceding the project
(1976-77 and 1977-78) even though kharif rainfall in 1981-82 was well
below the normal average.
1.24    With the problem of reversible deputation overcome and with the
recent restaffirg of the Block Development Offices, the non-technical
demands on VEW should substantially diminish and there should be much
greater stability in the service than before. There appears to be
increasing recognition that extension staff should be confined to techni-
cal functions. Some important initiatives have also been taken to improve
liaison with Block Development Officers, who have now assumed prime
responsibility for coordinating inputs. The extension structure is fun-
damentally sound, the operational capability of the system has been
clearly demonstrated and this has been satisfactorily sustained in many
districts despite the difficulties, which, i; itself, is an indication of
the system's development potential. For these reasons, the problems
encountered should not be seen as jeopardizing continued support for
extension in Rajasthan under MAEP. The proposed subproject is described
in para 3.12 and in Annex 7.
Bihar (Credit 761-IN. January 6. 1978. US$8.0 M)
1.25    The Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Credit became effec-
tive in May 1978, with an original closing date of October 31, 1983.
During the first few years the project was hampered by inadequate provi-
sion of budgetary resources and a lack of support among senior government
officers responsible for implementation, exacerbated by frequent leader-
ship changes. This resulted in poor overall project execution, including
failure to appoint necessary project staff, weak field extension and
failure to begin civil works. Project performance lagged significantly
behind appraisal targets from project inception through most of 1982.
Following recognition by the Government of Bihar of the advantages of an
effective agricultural extension service and its commitment to the
project's success, project implementation improved from late 1982, includ-
ing the sanctioning and filling of a number of vacant staff positions,
efforts to organize and improve field and training activities, compliance
with financial covenants and, most importantly, provision of adequate
budgetary resources for 1983-84 and the commitment to provide continued
adequate funding for 1984-85. Under these conditions, IDA agreed to
extend the closing date by a year, to October 31, 1984, and may consider a
further requested extension if progress continues satisfactory. The field
organization is now established in 16 districts and the Government plans
to extend it to six additional districts in 1984.  Full implementation in
these 22 districts out of the state's 31 may be achieved and the remaining
nine districts may be included under a subsequent project.



- 10 -
Composite Agricultural Extension Proiect
(Credit 862-IN. February 16. 1979. US$25.0 M)
Guiarat (US$7.0 M)
1.26    The Composite Agricultural Extension Credit, of which the Gujarat
project is a component, became effective in December 1979 and has a clos-
ing date of December 31, 1984. Good progress has been made in estab-
lishing professional extension in Gujarat. Measures needed to strengthen
its impact on agricultural production are those common to extension
projects during the first phase of development. IDA is giving special
attention to extension's impact in the field, namely to the need for
applied and adaptive research to be further developed to generate more
location and time specific recommendations and to the improvement of
linkages between extension and irrigation development (Gujarat Medium and
Gujarat II Irrigation Projects, Credits 808-IN and 1001-IN, for which
water management training will be incorporated in fortnightly training as
a regular subject). Good work is being done in monitoring and evaluation
of extension's effectiveness and impact. The Government of Gujarat has
prepared a proposal for a second phase project which has been appraised
and will be included in the proposed NAEP II.
Haryana (US$6.2 M)
1.27    This project is also a component of the Composite Agricultural
Extension Credit. Generally, progress has been satisfactory. Field
visits, findings of the monitoring and evaluation studies and special
studies (see para 6.06) all provide evidence of the project's favorable
impact. Most staff are in position or vacancies are being filled by
promotion; however, transfers of extension staff have become so frequent
and widespread that continuity is endangered. With the substantial
investments being made in irrigation, including the Haryana Irrigation II
Project (Credit 1319-IN), greater attention will be paid to training
extension staff in all matters relating to the efficient use and conserva-
tion of water and suitable land development. The Government of Haryana.
has reviewed the project and prepared a follow-up project which has been
appraised and will be included in the proposed NAEP II.
Karnataka (US$11.1 M)
1.28    This project is the third state component of the Composite
Agricultural Extension Credit. The extension mechanism of regular farm
visits and quality training is well established. Improved varieties, use
of weedicides in paddy areas, new crops and intercropping systems are
being successfully spread across large areas. A high level of VEW vacan-
cies has been a problem but action is underway to fill all VEW vacancies.
Karnataka has taken the lead in exploring how extension can more specifi-
cally serve the needs of women in agriculture and the first female exten-
sion officers will be appointed soon. A special need in the state is to
improve extension for farmers in tank-irrigated areas. This calls for
better linkages between the Agriculture and Irrigation Departments, addi-
tional field research on the problems of these areas and incorporating
water management and land development in extension training. Monitoring



- 11 -
and evaluation is making good progress. Data on several aspects of the
introduction of new technology under the improved extension system have
recently been compiled by the Department of Agriculture which indicate
that, as a result of professional extension, considerable progress has
been made in recent years in introduction of new crops, in use of improved
varieties, and in an increased rate of growth in use of fertilizers,
certified seed and pesticides.
1.29    The credit allocation for this project is likely to be fully drawn
in advance of the closing date of December 31, 1984. Project expenditures
are expected to slightly exceed costs estimated at appraisal and the
Govermment expects to implement the program in full (during 1984-85),
financing the additional costs from their own account. A follow-up
project has been appraised and will be included in the proposed NAEP II.
Kerala (Credit 1028-IN. June 25. 1981. US$10.0 M)
1.30    The Kerala Agricultural Extension Credit became effective in
August 1980 and has a closing date of June 30, 1986. Some aspects of the
project are proceeding satisfactorily, notwithstanding frequent changes
in key leadership positions. Field visits are generally satisfactory.
Monitoring and evaluation, fortnightly training and monthly workshops and
coordination between the Department of Agriculture and University on
extension support are generally good and improving. Outstanding problems
include civil works, which have barely started, budgetary constraints,
and staff vacancies. There was a virtual absence of credit withdrawals
for one year, but these are now picking up. The Gover.nent of Kerala has
been requested to prepare a statement of action it has taken or intends to
cake on these matters and a detailed program of project-related activities
(including budgetary allowances).
Maharashtra (Credit 1135-IN. May 7. 1981. US$23.0 M)
1.31    The Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Credit became effective
in July 1981. Significant progress is being made in implementation of the
project. The quality of field extension is improving; the mechanism of
regular training and field visits appears well established. Areas of
concern are those commonly experienced during the earlier years of
implementing such projects, e.g., field supervision and contact farmer
selection. In addition, the VEW/farm family ratio appears to be too high
in some areas, especially in irrigated areas. These problems were
reviewed in the course of the mid-term review by the Government of
Maharashtra in March 1984 and remedial measures have been agreed to.
Tamil Nadu (Credit 1137-IN. May 7. 1981, US$28.0 M)
1.32    The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Credit became effective in
July 1981. Project implementation continues to do well and the basic
structure of the extension system has been well established. Most staff
positions are filled, vehicle and equipment procurement is problem free,
training activities are well planned and executed, monitoring and evalua-
tion is satisfactory, financial support is adequate, extension training



- 12 -
center and horticultural civil works are making good progress and con-
struction on housing has now started. The main problems facing the
project are frequent high-level staff changes and failure to transfer
about 735 Rural Welfare Officers to the extension service. Areas which
could benefit from additional attention include the quality of horticul-
tural extension, liaison on extension activities between the Department of
Agriculture and other departments involved in farm production, the role
and effectiveness of District Technical Committees and seasonal zonal and
state workshops.
Andhra Pradesh (Credit 1219-IN. May 5. 1982. US$6.0 M)
1.33    The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension Credit became effective
in June 1982. The mechanism of professional extension is working
reasonably well where adequate staff are in position; interaction between
scientists from the agricultural university's regional agricultural
research stations and the extension staff has improved significantly; the
quality of fortnightly training and monthly workshops has improved and
there is evidence of increased farmer acceptance of extension recommenda-
tions on new varieties and production practices. Unfortunately, the
extension service is operating in only about half of the state because of
delay in transfer of staff to the extension service from the Panchayat Raj
Department and the Command Area Development Department as agreed under the
credit. Strengthening supervision of extension staff is also needed to
facilitate project implementation.
Directorate of Extension (Credit 862-IN. February 16. 1979. US$0.7 M)
1.34    This component of the Composite Agricultural Extension Credit
attempted to strengthen the Directorate of Extension (DOE) of the GOI
Ministry of Agriculture (MDA) to improve its ability to assist state
extension efforts. The organization set up under this project is shown in
Annex 8, Chart 25970. It included a new position of Joint Commissioner
(as deputy to the Joint Secretary responsible for DOE) to assume full-time
responsibility for supervision of DOE activities which support state level
agricultural extension programs; the establishment of a new Field Exten-
sion Unit to provide assistance to the states in project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation and in solving specialized technical problems;
strengthening of the Training Unit to raise the quality of training in the
states; and strengthening of the Farm Information Unit to improve its
capability to train state extension staff in preparation and use of com-
munication aids and to provide states with audio-visual training
materials. The Field Extension Unit has not proved as effective as
intended, in part because it has lacked sufficient technical expertise and
administrative independence to advise state services and in part because
several key posts were not staffed. Generally, the activities of the
Directorate relating to agricultural extension and those relating to such
other activities as exhibitions and general training have not been
separated, with the result that both the agricultural extension and other
important work of the Directorate have suffered.



- 13 -
1.35    There has been a significant improvement during the past year in
the Directorate's contribution through implementation assistance and
guidance to the states and by facilitating training programs. DOE's staff
has been more involved in field visits in several states that are
implementing IDA-assisted extension projects and has been helping states
as they complete first phase projects to prepare follow-up projects. More
than before, DOE is attempting to do long-term planning and to provide a
stronger central base for helping to strengthen state activities. This
has occurred notwithstanding many staff vacancies. This new momentum
cannot be sustained without strengthening of staff and other resources.
The few key staff in DOE have become overloaded and are unable to attend
properly to the various and increasing tasks of the Directorate. Resolu-
tion of this issue is a prerequisite for DOE's participation in NAEP.
Hence, a central feature of NAEP will be a component to strengthen DOE in
a manner that will permit it, in time, to become the lead institution for
agricultural extension in India. The proposals to reorganize and
strengthen DOE's ability to make the contribution envisaged are described
in Chapter III, paras 3.14 to 3.21.
Lessons Learned
1.36    While considerable scope remains for improving the design of the
agricultural extension system and its effectiveness  -ce the new structure
is in place, the Bank's experience in India to date has been positive
overall. The new system has now stood the test of seven years of
implementation in several states; there is growing evidence of its
favorable impact and it has received wide support from the farming com-
munity and state Departments of Agriculture. Although achievements have
been mixed, experience with these projects shows the need for and lead
role of a technical extension service, that the system adopted for tech-
nology transfer is fundamentally sound, and that the impact on production,
even in the short term, can be substantial. Many of the changes intro-
duced are now generally recognized as worthwhile: fixed visit schedules,
regular meetings of extension field workers and supervising officers and
specialists, use of such meetings for in-service training of extension
staff, use of extension staff in helping to identify research priorities,
a single line of responsibility for field staff. The lead role of a
strong technical extension service is now seen in several states where it
has developed to the stage where it is able to identify constraints at
farm level and place pressure for performance accountability both within
its own operations and on the other support services on which agricultural
development also depends. Thus, not only is the extension service becom-
ing increasingly aware of its own need to improve the timeliness and
quality of the technology it should transfer to farmers and taking
remedial measures, but also it is exerting considerable pressure on the
research support network to reorient its research priorities.
1.37    Strong project support from IDA has been an important factor in
past achievement. It has also identified, and to some extent compensated
for, weaknesses in extension support at GOI level. Although these
problems are being specifically addressed in the ongoing projects and the
proposed NAEP, they will also take time to resolve. Past achievements



- 14 -
must not, therefore, mask the vulnerability that persists and the under-
current of pressure to revert to a more traditional system with multipur-
pose field workers. Extension reorganization is still institutionally
immature and it is essential that the technical and supervisory support of
the Bank be sustained. The Bank will continue to support efforts both to
adapt technology to the needs of Indian farmers and to improve the trans-
fer of that technology to them by assisting state and central efforts
through the proposed and future NAEPs as well as through the National
Agricultural Research Project (NARP) (Credit 855-IN, December 1978) and
the proposed NARP II. Further, NAEP would follow the pattern successfully
employed for research support through NARP of improving a central
organization's ability to assist state efforts, thus moving toward assist-
ing a core sectoral program in place of state-by-state project assistance.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
2.01    With agriculture being a state responsibility under the national
constitution, there are legal constraints that limit the authority of the
central government over the control of national funds presently allocated
to states for support of agricultural extension and which also determine
the central role in planning, coordinating, evaluating and controlling
extension activities. In the longer term and in order to enable Central
Government to provide more effective technical assistance, policy guidance
and additional funds to the States, GOI is considering making extension a
subject for assistance under centrally-sponsored schemes as it has already
done for special subprojects in support of agricultural extension under
NAEP. Under such arrangements, central funds flow directly to states to
cover a substantial proportion of state costs, whilst the states are
expected to conform to certain criteria associated with implementation.
2.02    The proposed project would represent an intermediate step toward
setting up of a national funding umbrella for improvement of extension
institutions and services at the state level. Whilst IDA funds would
continue to be channeled through the central government to participating
states, (including present legal arrangements whereby IDA enters into
separate Project Agreements with each participating agency), the project
would bring about the reorganization and strengthening of the relevant
central organization, (i.e., the Directorate of Extension in the central
Ministry of Agriculture), to enable it to perform more effectively its
present coordinating and policy guidance role and, in time, to enable it
to assume greater responsibility for helping states to prepare their
extension reform projects and to appraise, supervise and evaluate them.
As yet, training and visit extension is not so firmly established in any
state that it would be considered self-sustaining. In addition, much more
attention needs to be given at both state and central levels to monitoring
and evaluating the impact of extension activities. Generally, present
efforts need to be intensified.
2.03    While current extension projects will help to establish more
professional extension services and broaden their coverage of the farming
population, further strengthening and deepening of the extension effort is



- 15 -
required. Given the extent of administrative and att:.tudinal change, as
well as the considerable incremental staff and other -:esources involved in
extension reform, little more can be done during t0e first five-year
implementation period of the typical state project than to establish the
basic framework within which a better agricultural extension service may
be developed. Moreover, in most states, difficulties with staff transfers
and recruitment, training, civil works and research linkages have sig-
nificantly reduced the effective implementation period of the
IDA-supported projects. Further investment, as proposed through NAEP,
would take advantage of the earlier investment and progress in implement-
ing second phase activities would improve as the various difficulties
experienced in the past are overcome. In the case of states seeking
assistance in follow-on projects, NAEP would focus on several specific
objectives in the state systems: administrative consolidation, consolida-
tion and some expansion of infrastructure, improvement in the quality of
extension operations, broadening and deepening of extension's coverage of
farmers and further development of professional extension cadres. It
would also endeavor to strengthen further the linkage between extension
and research so as to tie in applied, field-level research more closely
with extension. Thus, the specific objectives of NAEP would be:
A. Administrative Consolidation
2.04    NAEP would help to consolidate the administrative changes brought
about by the introduction of the improved extension system under various
IDA-sponsored state projects. Disbursements under three state projects
are substantially completed and several others will be completed soon.
iDA's continued involvement through NAEP would provide the independent
encouragement and guidance to state and central efforts in implementing
and maintaining extension reform needed in face of considerable
administrative and political difficulties inherent in this task. Without
such support, extension reform is less likely to have the desired
long-term impact, nor is it likely that high quality agricultural exten-
sion services would be irrevocably established in individual states as
well as a professional central body able to support and guide state
efforts.
B. Consolidation of Extension Infrastructure
2.05    Implementation experience in all states indicates that additional
assistance is needed to further develop the infrastructure (staff, build-
ings, vehicles, equipment and training facilities) required for effective
extension, to consolidate the linkage between extension and research, and
to provide resources for continued professional development of extension
personnel. Of the numerous areas of potential consolidation, perhaps the
one requiring the most sustained effort is training. This central role of
training and the difficulties experienced to date in establishing
appropriate and timely training for extension staff make this a major
focus of follow-up activities.



- 16 -
C. laurovement in the Ouslitv
2.06    Although measures to improve the quality of extension must be
identified and impleented by state services, the center must develop the
capability to guide them in various areas: improving the roles of SMS,
AEO and contact farmers, establishing close permanent links vitb research,
and the implementation of useful field trials and of adaptive research in
general on which to base relevant location and resource-specific technical
recomendations. As more specialized subjects are covered, the extension
service will need closer guidance. Other matters vhich require continuous
attention in the normal course of extension activities include developing
responsive and specialized training systems and strong informa-
tion/comunications support. States, for example, are only beginning to
organize refresher training of Village Extension Workers.
D. Iroadenina and Deepeuinn of Coverrate
2.07    First phase extension projects focus on developing a service for
the majority of the rural population, with concentration on a few chief
crops. However, the need is becoming apparent for more specialixed sup-
port from the unified technical extension service for crops already
covered, for new crops and for such activities as vater management, farm
management, horticulture and some aspects of farm forestry. Moreover, in
light of experience vith the Rimalayan Watershed Project (Ln. 2295-IN,
June 8, 1983) and the Pilot Project for Watershed Development in Rainfed
Areas (Cr. 1424-IN, February 6, 1984), it is necessary to focus increas-
ingly on watershed management: the development of land use alternatives,
soil management, land preparation, water conservation, drainage and pas-
ture improvement. Any specialized orientation will mean employing
appropriate Subject Matter Specialists and making changes in the training
of extension workers. Extension services also need to deepen their
coverage by dealing more directly than at present with the agricultural
production activities of vomen, rural youth, very small farmers, tenants
and sharecroppers and with tribal and hill populations. To be effective,
such coverage would require more intensive field supervision of extension
staff and improved researcb support.
E. Strentthenin& Linkages between Extension and Research
2.08    Given the complementarity of research and extension, IDA has
encouraged institutional arrangements which will strengthen ties between
the two. Both the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) (Credit
855-IN, December 7, 1978) and the proposed NARP II (scheduled for
appraisal in FY 1985) are structured to meet this need. Although research
is giving increasingly effective support to extension, much remains to be
done. There is still considerable ambiguity about adaptive research,
verification and field trials and the division of responsibility for these
between research and extension institutions. The knowledge-practice gap
in agricultural technology must be further reduced by refining technology
to suit the farmers' resource, management, and risk situations. Increased
awareness of actual farm conditions, responses to problems forwarded by



- 17 -
extension workers, participation in the training of extension staff, and
regular visits to review field problems at the request of extension
workers, together result in a reorientation of researchers' attention to
farmers' chief concerns and production constraints. A strong field trials
program also provides an opportunity for researchers to interact with
farmers and extension workers. NAEP would support various means of
promoting farmer and extension staff participation in identifying research
priorities and it would encourage state agricultural universities (SAU) to
adopt programs and strategies to ease technological constraints to produc-
tion in different farming situations. Thus, the SAU research programs,
supported by NARP, would generate recommendations at regional stations and
substations while Departments of Agriculture, supported by NAEP, would be
responsible for refining these recommendations by carrying out field
trials (verification and modification) at different locations. This would
be a joint effort by research and extension with the SMS at the subdivi-
sion/district having full responsibility for the trials with technical
backup from the regional research station. NAEP would also help SAU to
finance other assistance to extension services, mainly training of SMS.
2.09    At the central level, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) would participate in the Extension Technical Advisory Committee to
be established under NAEP (para 5.04). Furthermore. scientists of ICAR
institutes would be directly involved in technolog) cransfer to farmers
through extension staff by means of regular participation in seasonal
state and zonal technical committee meetings and workshops and through
regular field trips with extension staff to review actual farming condi-
tions and activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01    The proposed five-year project would provide continuing assistance
initiated under earlier credits to three states (Orissa, Madhya Pradesh
and Rajasthan) in the improvement of state agricultural extension serv-
ices, (see paras 1.10-1.14, 1.16-1.19 and 1.21-1.24); and reorganize and
strengthen the Extension Division and the DOE in the central Ministry of
Agriculture to allow them to perform more effectively a coordinating and
policy guidance role in the development of agricultural extension
throughout India and enable them to assist states to prepare projects for
extension reform and to supervise such projects. In addition, the project
would provide funds for further project preparation or special studies and
for financing special subprojects prepared by MOA, states or other
implementing agencies and designed specifically to strengthen support of
extension activities at the central, regional or state level.
3.02    While the basic approach to strengthening of agricultural exten-
sion services is common to all participating states, necessary adjustments
have been made to take account of differing levels of agricultural
development, administrative arrangements, agro-ecological conditions,
population densities, communications and progress made under their earlier
projects. Summary data on the state subprojects including basic data on



- 18 -
the states, staffing, civil works and numbers of vehicles for the agricul-
tural extension services before the proposed project and to be financed
under it are given in Annex 4. Detailed proposals, outlining the par-
ticular features of each state component, are given in Annexes 5,6, and 7,
those of DOE in Annex 8 and overall project costs in Annex 9.
B. Detailed Features - State Components
3.03    The criteria for state participation in NAEP and similar possible
future projects are summarized in Annex 3. Any second phase investment
would be -reconditioned by the participating state submitting all finan-
cial reports outstanding at project completion, sanctioning of all posts
deemed important for successful project implementation, assurances of
continued funding of ongoing phase I costs and budgetary provision for
phase II costs, total withdrawal of all phase I credit funds (or satisfac-
tory arrangements on disposal of the balance of funds) and satisfactory
progress towards submission of a Project Completion Report. Assistance to
a state seeking funding for the first time would call for the agricultural
extension service to be reorganized, where necessary, and intensified
following the pattern employed in 13 states over the past eight years.
3.04    The project would support a variety of training activities,
depending on the requirements of each state. Programs currently being
followed in Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan would be continued and
would be extended to new districts in Ra,asthan. These would include the
key training programs--the monthly extension/research workshops and fort-
nightly training-preservice training, additional seasonal training
programs and special short courses for VEW. In-state training programs
would be organized by DOA and SAU. Given the increased specialization and
sophistication of extension services, the training of extension staff will
continue to be important in states augmenting their extension services
with second phase projects. In addition to the further development of
existing training activities, specialized training would be given in such
subjects as horticulture, watershed management, plant protection, soil
conservation and farm forestry. Moreover, training in monitoring and
evaluation and in extension management, especially at middle and upper
levels, would irprove extension implementation and its supervision.
Training would not only include short-term specific courses, but also
would support staff development through training courses tailored to the
needs and qualifications of staff, including where appropriate, promo-
tional training to obtain undergraduate or postgraduate degrees. (Such
upgrading of staff quality may be one of the most effective incentives
available for extension staff and appropriate incentives will be increas-
ingly vital to effective extension as work routines are established.)
State training programs are described in Annex 13 and training provisions
are detailed for each state in Annexes 5-7 and Tables 506, 606, and 706.
3.05    Additional staff will be required to meet the needs of increased
specialization and broader coverage. SMS will be required in technologies
other than those needed for basic agricultural production. Lower ratios
of farm families to VEW may be justified in some areas, e.g., in newly
irrigated areas, which in turn would require more supervision staff (AEO,



- 19 -
ASDAO, SDAO) in addition to VEW. Such intensified coverage may be only
temporarily required, e.g., during the initial stages of a watershed
development program. Thus, staff requirements should be worked out on the
basis of in-field, felt needs, using recommended staffing ratios as a
guide. In some states, additional extension subdivisions and divisions
have been created since formulation of the first phase project, requiring
additional staff. In such states, the incremental staff needs may be
larger than estimated during appraisal of the first phase projects.
During negotiations, assurances were given by each state that all the
incremental staff positions would be filled according to the agreed
schedule (Annexes 5-7, Tables 502, 602, and 702). Further, the states
agreed that extension staff would be used exclusively for agricultural
extension work under the project and that they would not be adversely
affected in respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and
promotional prospects by reason of assignment. During negotiations it was
also agreed that each participating state would, by September 30, 1986,
review project execution, especially the adequacy of field staff arrange-
ments, and increase the number of staff and facilities deployed under the
project to the extent revealed as necessary by the review.
3.06    Extension projects provide housing to a proportion of extension
workers, as provision of appropriate housing in areas of operation is
critical to effective field extension. All states would continue to
encourage the use of rented accommodation wherever possible. However, in
some rural areas, housing, either institutionally owned or for rent, is
limited and the project provides for tne construction of low cost housing
in these areas. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from each
state that they would construct the numbers and types of housing as set
out in Annexes 5-7, Tables 503, 603, and 703.
3.07    Both increased technical specialization, through provision of
additional Subject Matter Specialists, and more numerous staff will
require additional vehicles, mainly bicycles, mopeds and motorcycles (on a
loan-purchase basis). Credit terms and traveling allowances were reviewed
at negotiations and assurances were obtained from each state that they
would be improved, if necessary, to ensure sufficient incentive for pur-
chase and use by field staff. The project would also provide audiovisual
aids to support extension operations, as well as office furniture and
equipment needed for expanded extension activities and for training.
Provisions for each state are detailed in Annexes 5-7, Tables 504, 604,
and 704.
3.08    The project would provide incremental operating expenses par-
ticularly for printing technical diaries, field notebooks, charts,
instructional materials for training sessions, seeds and other inputs for
field trials, and material for preparing simple visual aids. Funds would
also be provided for the operation and maintenance of incremental vehicles
and for staff travel and allowances. The project would also provide funds
for SAU in each state for their support of extension activities, mainly
travel and other expenses and for field trials. Provisions for each state
are detailed in Annexes 5-7, Tables 505, 605, and 705.



- 20 -
3.09    Descriptions of each state project given below are limited to
features of particular importance or interest in the state. Project costs
and implementation rates are detailed in Annexes 5-7.
Hadhya Pradesh
3.10    Madhya Pradesh (MP), the largest state in India, has a population
of some 52 M with about 80% of the working population engaged in agricul-
ture, cultivating 18.7 M ha of the state's total land of 44.3 M ha.  About
10% of the cropped area is irrigated. The state can be divided into five
agroclimatic zones: rice, rice-wheat, wheat, wheat-sorghum and cotton-
sorghum zones.
3.11    The project would consolidate earlier IDA-assisted efforts to
develop a more effective extension service in both the 15 districts of the
first project and the 30 other districts of the second, taking into
account the two-year overlapping of the second project with the proposed
NAEP. The project would provide:
(a) Incremental Staff. Some additional staff would be appointed
to take care of needs of special areas, e.g. watershed
management, oilseed development (in conjunction with the
National Cooperative Development Corporation III Project) l/
and development of tribal areas, and would involve the recruit-
ment of 22 SMS, 47 AEO, 283 VEW and 3 extension support staff
for the SAU.
(b)  Monitorinu  and Evaluation.  A monitoring and evaluation unit
has been established under the Phase I project. Funds would
be provided to continue and strengthen monitoring and
evaluation.
(c) Civil Works. The earlier IDA-assisted extension projects
provided housing to about 20% of VEW and AEO. The project
would provide funds for a further 800 houses for VEW and 178
houses for AEO, thus providing houses to about 30% of the total
strength of VEW and AEO. Eleven small printing press and infor-
mation buildings would also be constructed at the divisional
level.
(d) Transport. The project would provide for replacement of 53
old 4-wheel drive diesel vehicles which were transferred to the
extension service under the earlier project. In addition, one
audiovisual van would be purchased. To facilitate movement of
VEW and AEO, loans would be available for the purchase of a
further 2000 bicycles and 700 motorcycles and/or mopeds.
1/ Credit 1502-IN, approved June 19, 1984.



- 21 -
As noted above, the Madhya Pradesh project also covers training, equipment
and various incremental operating expenses for DOA and SAU. Further
details are given at Annex 6 and in Project Files.
Raiasthan
3.12    Rajasthan, the second largest state in India, has a population of
some 34 M with 70% of the working population engaged in agriculture,
cultivating about 16.0 M ha of the state's total land of 34.2 M ha. About
21% of the cropped area is irrigated. On account of scanty rainfall and
poor irrigation facilities, cropping patterns in the state are dominated
by low value food grain crops. The irrigated area is about 3.75 M ha,
of which canal irrigation is 33.6Z. The gross cropped area is about 17.9
M ha. The project would provide:
(a) Incremental Staff. Forty-six SMS would be appointed to
meet the requirements of areas not previously covered and
also to meet specialized needs, e.g. watershed management.
In new areas (four complete and parts of two other admini-
strative districts), extension staff would be strengthened
along the same pattern as the phase I project. However,
large parts of these districts are arid and additional
staff would be posted only at such places where some ad-
ditional staff would be posted only at such places where
some irrigation facilities exist or a successful rainfed
crop can be raised during kharif and/or rabi season. This
additional staff would include 3 JDA, 5 DDA, 59 SDAO, 124
AEO and 836 VEW.
(b) Adaptive Research. Two new zonal (main) adaptive research sta-
tions (modeled on the same lines as the existing five main sta-
tions) would be established to meet the research needs specific
to the new areas and to provide appropriate technology for
farmers and training of staff. Their incremental staff require-
ments are 1 ADA, 2 scientists, 4 assistant scientists, 2
assistant statisticians, 9 assistant agricultural research
officers and 11 agricultural supervisors.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring and evaluation unit
established under the first project would be strengthened. A
Joint Director of Agriculture, along with supporting staff, would
be recruited.
(d) Civil Works. The project would provide funds for 1300 houses
for VEW, 168 houses for AEO, and 82 houses for SMS. Twenty
small training halls for fortnightly training of VEW and 4 SDAO
offices would also be built. For adaptive research, 17 staff
quarters, 1 substation, 2 office/laboratories and storage
facilities would be built.
(e) Transport. Transport was provided under the earlier extension
project; however, to meet the additional needs, the project



- 22 -
would provide 3 cars and 90 4-wheel drive diesel vehicles,
including 7 for the SAU, 1 for M&E, and 3 for adaptive research,
as would be 1 tractor. To facilitate movement of VEW and AEO,
loans would be provided to purchase 200 bicycles and 700
motorcycles and/or mopeds.
As noted above, the Rajasthan project also covers training, equipment and
various incremental operating expenses for DOA and SAU. Details are given
in Annex 7, Tables 702-706, and in Project Files.
Orissa
3.13    Orissa has a population of some 26 N with about 76% of the working
population engaged in agriculture cultivating 6.8 M ha of the state's
total land of 15.5 M ha. About 22% of the population is tribal and 15Z
scheduled castes. About 20% of the net cropped area is irrigated.
Foodgrains dominate the cropping pattern -- 55% of the cropped area is
planted to rice, 25% to pulses and 11% to oilseeds. The project would
provide:
(a) Incremental Staff. The proposed subproject would add 96 SMS:
17 in agronomy and 17 in plant protection to be posted to the
more remote districts; 15 in land management, for development
of dryland farming with special reference to soil and moisture
conservation and watershed management; 28 in horticulture (in
addition to six existing at range level) for tribal areas
(input supply and other horticulture developmental activities
would remain with the Horticulture Department); and 19 in
water management (in addition to the 30 existing) to be
assigned to 32 DAO/ADAO whose areas of operation cover command
areas of major and medium irrigation projects. In addition,
132 support staff rill be provided under the project.
(b)  Information Support.  Small information units with photographer,
dark room facilities, a small press and support staff would be
added in 12 revenue districts. (One district already has such
facilities.) These units would prepare and distribute technical
literature and audiovisual materials for use by field extension
workers.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation. The Orissa Agricultural Development
Project had called for monitoring and evaluation to be under-
taken by the Farm Management Data Unit of OUAT; however, this
unit mainly deals with analysis of cost of production of various
crops and has not served the purpose intended for the agricul-
tural extension service. Therefore, under the proposed sub-
project, a monitoring and evaluation unit would be established
in the Department of Agriculture. It would be the responsibility
of a Joint Director of Agriculture, assisted by one agricultural
economist, one rural sociologist, one statistician, 13 field
supervisors, 46 field investigators and 18 statistical assist-



- 23 -
ants. The JDA (M&E) would report directly to the Director of
Agriculture.
(d) Civil Works. The project would build houses for 3000 VEW,
318 AEO, and 139 ADAO/DAO/SMS. Together with those provided
under the earlier project, houses would be provided for about
three-fourths of all VEW and AEO. Thirteen msall training halls
and 15 office buildings would also be provided.
(e) Transport. Adequate transport facilities vere provided under
the earlier extension project. While the proposed project does
not provide for increasing the number of vehicles, it would
finance replacement of 2 cars and 38 4-vheel drive diesel
vehicles. To facilitate movement of VEW, AEO and SNS, loans
would be provided to purchase 750 bicycles and 300 motorcycles
and/or mopeds.
As noted above, the Orissa project also covers training, equipment and
various incremental operating expenses for DDA and SAU. Further details
on the Orissa subproject are given in Annex 5 and in Project Files.
C. Detailed Features - Ministry of Agriculture/Directorate of Extension
3.14    The Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of India is staffed
by both administrators (normally drawn from state cadres of the Indian
Administrative Service and on secondment to the Ministry) who fill such
posts as Secretary, Joint Secretary and Under Secretary and who largely
handle matters of general administration and policy, including dealings
with their counterparts at the policy decision making level in the states,
and agricultural technicians (normally recruited from state Departments of
Agriculture on a permanent basis' who fill positions within the Ministry
and whose responsibilities include the provision of technical advice to
the administrators. Such positions are at the level of Commissioner,
Director, Joint Director, etc. In order to rectify the shortcomings in
the effective operation of the central Directorate of Extension (DOE)
experienced under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.
862-IN) (para 1.34), and to enable GOI to support agricultural extension
more effectively, the project would strengthen both the Extension Division
of the MOA (with the administration responsible for dealing with state
ministries of agriculture) and the Directorate of Extension (a subordinate
office of MDA, responsible to the Extension Division, providing both
technical guidance to the administrators and to state departments of
agriculture). The project also provides for the establishment of a high
level advisory and coordinating committee, the Extension Technical
Advisory Committee, described in paragraphs 5.03 and 5.04, which would
provide a key input to MOA/DOE operations.
3.15    The core administrative staff to be provided in the Ministry
(Extension Division) would be responsible for administrative, organiza-
tional, planning and logistic aspects, as vell as for follow-up of visits
and correspondence with state governments. For each state being super-
vised, a multi-disciplinary team would be organized consisting of one



- 24 -
member of the core staff of the Ministry's Extension Division, members of
the Directorate and up to two outside experts. The latter vould be drawn
from within the GOI (e.g., from the Crops Division, Commodity Direc-
torates, or ICAR) or could be drawn from state extension services, depart-
ments of agriculture or SAU. Such teams would make at least two visits
annually to every state using the T&V system of extension. During these
visits, they would, among other things, visit farmers' fields, attend
monthly workshops and other training sessions, and have discussions with
university experts and state government officials. Their reports would be
followed up by the Ministry's core staff and used by the Directorate staff
in support of its monitoring and evaluation and other activities. In
addition to the existing Joint Commissioner, the core administrative staff
would require immediately two Joint Commissioners, assisted by three
Senior Technical Assistants/Desk Officers and other support staff. During
negotiations it WaS agreed that by March 31, 1986, GOI would review execu-
tion of the Extension Division/DOE component and assess adequacy of staff-
ing and would make any necessary adjustments in number of staff, taking
into account the Bank's recommendations. Provision is made in the project
for such possible additions to staff, as detailed in Annex 8, Table 802
and Chart 26574.
3.16    The Directorate of Extension (DOE) presently comprises four
units-Administration, Farm Information, Extension Training and Field
Extension--each headed by a Director. The Field Extension Unit was
created specifically under Cr. 862-IN to support T&V extension but has not
proved very effective for the reasons outlined in paras 1.34 and 1.35.
The present organization is shown in Annex 8, Chart 25970 and that
proposed in Chart 26574. Under the project, DOE would be further
strengthened, with the Farm Information, Extension Training and Field
Extension Units reporting to the corresponding wing of the Extension
Division. The Field Extension and Extension Training Units would be
almost exclusively used for support of agricultural extension. The Farm
Information Unit will continue its present activities relating to exhibi-
tions, publicity, and preparing pamphlets and periodicals and would be
strengthened to provide additional support to guide the states in
audiovisual support and agricultural communications.
3.17    While the bulk of the training responsibility for agricultural
extension falls on the state governments, GOI's responsibility is limited
to helping to organize .he training needs that normally cannot be met by
state institutes and SAU.  This training is normally at institutes that
are the direct responsibility of GOI and, for these, DOE has an important
role in directly organizing the training; in others, such as ICAR
institutes and SAU, its role is largely confined to providing liaison
between the institutes and the states. The Extension Training Unit would
continue to assist states to plan, conduct and evaluate training programs
for extension workers. It would also continue to organize and monitor
training courses for SMS at selected institutions throughout India in such
topics as improved crop husbandry, water management and crop protection.
It would administer training of extension officers under special programs
within and outside India. DOE would also organize more training courses
for trainers working in SAU, to enable them to become more effective



- 25 -
trainers of state-employed SMS. To carry out its responsibilities, the
Extension Training Unit would require incremental staff of one Joint
Director, one Senior Extension Officer and three Extension Officers and
support staff. Additional staff needs are likely to be revealed by the
staff review noted above (para 3.15).
3.18    The Field Extension Unit would be strengthened to enable it to
assist the states in the identification and preparation of second phase
extension projects and in the monitoring and evaluation of their extension
projects, and to provide assistance in the identification, preparation,
appraisal, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of special subprojects
(para 3.21). To carry out these functions, the unit would require
incremental staff of three Joint Directors, three Senior Extension
Officers and seven support staff. Additional staff needs are likely to be
revealed by the staff review noted in para 3.15.
3.19    In further support of these activities, the internal consultancy
scheme financed under the Composite Extension Project (Credit 862-IN)
would be continued under NAEP. Under this scheme, experts who are
directly engaged in ongoing extension projects in their own states or in
SAU or EEI are recruited to visit other states and assist in developing
more effective project organizations. They undertake intensive field
visits and discuss methods of improving implementation. On completion of
their assignments, they submit detailed reports identifying areas which
require further action and may participate in training programs, workshops
and seminars.
3.20    The Farm Information Unit provides guidance to state extension
services on the production of audiovisual communication and teaching aids.
It will be strengthened under the project by the appointment of one Joint
Director and one Deputy Director. It is likely that the Farm Information
Unit and the Administration Unit will require further strengthening as
revealed by the staffing review noted in para 3.15.
3.21    At present, DOE is scattered in four locations and does not have
its own building. The DOE subproject would provide for a new building for
housing all units together, with auditorium, library, projection room,
press facilities, classrooms, and other support facilities. It would be
built on land provided on the Indian Agricultural Research Institute
campus. Details of this and vehicles, equipment, operating costs and
training activities supported under the project are given in Annex 8,
Tables 803 to 806.
D. Special Subproiects to Provide Specialized Support to Extension
3.22    A US$5.0 M fund would be used to support special short-term sub-
projects prepared by states receiving IDA support for strengthening of
agricultural extension (with assistance from the DOE) for activities
specifically required to strengthen special aspects of agricultural exten-
sion. Activities that would be covered include support for the extension
activities of SAU, strengthening of SAU extension education departments,
specialized extension activities (e.g., for women and tribals or to meet



- 26 -
the particular needs of newly irrigated areas, or localized farming condi-
tions created by special soil and rainfall conditions), development of
local level adaptive research programs, or regional training activities to
serve several states. The GOI has already approved that such special
projects under NAEP would be considered as centrally-sponsored schemes.
3.23    Special subprojects will generally fall under two broad
categories: (i) those which seek to strengthen or augment a particular
aspect of the extension system across states or at the national level; and
(ii) those which are state-specific and whose objectives are to strengthen
the extension system selectively in the state. DOE has already prepared
or identified several projects of the first category:
(i) SMS training is at present organized by the DOE Extension
Training Unit at various ICAR institutes and SAU. It is now
proposed to select some SAU for giving training in specific
subject matter areas to SMS (e.g., extension management,
water management, rainfed farming and crop technologies).
Each of the selected SAU should be fully equipped to offer
specialized training to SMS in a specific subject matter
area and eventually to be able to offer training even to
SMS from other countries. A subproject on these lines has
already been prepared and sent to the Planning Commission.
The estimated subproject cost is Rs 50.0 million. It can be
implemented in three years, starting from 1985-86.
Cii) A review of the objectives and activities of the three
Extension Education Institutes (EEI) is currently underway.
After this review is completed, the manner in which EEI
should be strengthened will be decided. They should be able
to offer a range of training programs to extension managers.
Estimated cost of this potential subproject is Rs 5.0 million.
Ciii)  Agricultural communication is an area which should be streng-
thened so that field extension activities have appropriate
communications support. At present, media support (i.e.,
All India Radio and Television) to field extension is not
strong. In order to fill this lacuna, two things are necessary:
(a) a strong agricultural communication service in each state
with adequate equipment support; and (b) linkages between field
extension and media services. MOA has prepared an Action Plan
to strengthen media support to agriculture (AGRICOM). Current-
ly a review is being taken of the requirements of the states
for strengthening their AGRICOM services, from which a special
subproject will be prepared that will provide for better organi-
zation for AGRICOM in the states; SMS for AGRICOM; and prepara-
tion of software (video films, slides, etc.). It is estimated
that this potential subproject, in its first phase, will cost
Rs 10.0 million.
(iv) A proposal has been prepared with IDA assistance to establish
a training center for monitoring and evaluation in agricultural



- 27 -
development projects at the National Institute for Rural Develop-
ment at Hyderabad with a combined capital and recurrent cost over
five years of about Rs 10.0 M.  Its purpose would be to sustain
the progress made in recent years in improving M&E work in
agricultural extension. Moreover, the center could be extended
to M&E development in other subsectors such as social forestry,
dairying, irrigation and water management.
(v) To assist several states with agricultural extension projects
to introduce computerized data processing for monitoring and
evaluation and other purposes and to ensure a greater consistency
among them in the operating systems chosen, IDA has proposed a
study of the available micro-computer hardware, the range of
likely applications in state Departments of Agriculture, the
suitability of existing software, the costs of installation and
maintenance and training needs. The study could be financed
under the Fund for Special Studies (para 3.26) and the state
investment in micro-computers might form a special project under
NAEP.
(vi) A special subproject to improve crop statistics has been recom-
mended to GOI and might be financed either under the proposed
HAEP or a later credit.
3.24    With regard to the second category of projects mentioned above, in
each state there are some areas in the present extension service requiring
support.  GOI has asked each state to undertake identification and
preparation of special subprojects in this area. More states are now
identifying areas where special subprojects are required to make the
functioning of the extension service more effective. A national workshop
is proposed to be held for discussing with the states the schedule for
preparing special subprojects. It is expected that some of these special
subprojects will be ready for appraisal by December 1984.
3.25    Special subprojects would meet criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 3).
They would be essentially of a short-term nature, small in size (usually
not exceeding 5 M Rs) and capable of being executed prior to Credit Clos-
ing. Applications would be submitted to the Joint Secretary (Extension
Commissioner) who would instruct DOE to carry out an appraisal to deter-
mine the technical feasibility of the request. Given that DOE has no
previous experience in carrying out such appraisals, the first four
applications received would be appraised by a joint IDAIDOE team. There-
after, responsibility for appraisal of subprojects would be with DOE, but
following an agreed format and subject to final review and approval by
IDA. After appraisal, subprojects would be submitted for final sanction
to the Departmental Sanctioning Committee or the Expenditure Finance
Committee, depending on subproject size (para 5.05).



- 28 -
E. Fund for Special Studies
3.26    The NAEP credit would provide for a discretionary fund for financ-
ing of consultants or other forms of assistance to the Extension Division
and DOE and the states for preparation of future state subprojects, spe-
cial subprojects, project completion reports, sector studies or related
activities which would assist implementation of NAEP and other
IDA-assisted agricultural extension projects. The fund would be used over
the five-year implementation period of NAEP. Studies would be mutually
agreed among GOI, IDA and the state or other implementing agency if other
than GOI. It is expected that most of the fund would be used for techni-
cal assistance, with local and internationally recruited consultants as
needed. Equipment in support of studies, data collection and otber expen-
ditures in support of project preparation, monitoring and evaluation and
implementation could also be financed.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    Detailed cost estimates, inclusive of taxes and duties and based
on incremental costs of carrying out the project over a five-year period,
are given in Annexes 5-8. They are summarized in the tables below.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY SUBPROJECT
Local Foreign Total        Local  Foreign  Total
--Rs M -- - - --         -     --- US$ M-- ----
Base Costs
State Subprojects
Madhya Pradesh            106.9   6.2    113.1          9.7   .6   10.3
Orissa                    149.3   7.6    156.9         13.6   .7   14.3
Rajasthan                 167.1    7.2   174.3         15.    .6   15.8
Subtotal State Subprojects  423.3  21.0   444.3          38.5   1.9   40.4
DOE Component                44.6    .7    45.3           4.0   .1    4.1
Total Base Costs            467.9   21.7   489.6         42.5  2.0   44.5
Physical Contingencies       23.7    1.3    25.0          2.2   .1    2.3
Price Contingencies         100.7    3 .6   104.3         9.2   .3      9.5
Subtotal                    592.3   26.6    618.9        53.9   2.4   56.3
Special Subprojects          82.5   9.1    91.6           7.5  0.8      8.3
Project Preparation           9.9   1.1    11.0           0.9  0.1      1.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         684.7  36.8   721.5          62.3  3.3   65.6



- 30 -
Table 4.2: SU)04RY OF PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURES
Hadhya                            Dir, of
Pradesh   Orissa   Rajasthan   Extension   Total  US$ M
- ---g-Rs '000               -         -
Incremental Staff       17,901      17,608    63,999      4,951    104,459    9.5
Civil Works             59,725    104,252    66,220       9,100    239,297   21.8
Equipment                1,370       3,610     2,194      1,925       9,099    0.8
Vehicles                11,450       7,975    12,974        300     32,699    3.0
Training                 9,729      11,579     9,897    25,230       56,435    5.1
Incremental
Operating Coste        12 939      11 882    18 980.    3 804.    47605    43
Total before
Contingencies         113,114    156,905   174,265    45,310    489,594   44.5
Contingencies
Physical                6,158      10.821     6.891      1.103     24,973    2.3
Price                  269199      30 903    37  228     2.977    104.307    9.5
Subtotal                32 357     41.724    4119    11080    129.280   11.8
Special Subprojects                                      91,667     91,667    8.3
Project Preparation                                      11 .000     11J 000   l.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
RS                   145,471    198,629   218,384   159.057/A  721,541
USS M                   13.2        18.1      19.9       14.5/a      65.6   65.6
/a  Includes DOE subproject (Rs 56.389,600 or US5.l M) and
allocation for special subprojects And project preparation.
The above costs based on findings during appraisal include about
US$1.1  in duties and taxes. Physical contingencies of 102 have
been applied to civil vorks, equipment, training and operating costs.
Price contingencies have been applied in accordance vith current
Bank estimates of expected inflation rates in India (local prices,
84185 at 8%, 85/86 through 87/88 at 7Z and 88/89 at 6%; foreign
costs, 84/85 at 3.32, 85/86 at 8% and 86/87 onwards at 9%) and
compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financins:
4.02    The proposed IDA credit of US$39.1 M vould be on standard terms to
GOI and vould finance about 60% of project costs for agreed project
activities, net of taxes and duties, but including estimated foreign
exchange costs. Assurances were obtained at ntgotiation that the proceeds
of the IDA credit vould be channeled to the Ministry of Agriculture and



- 31 -
the participating state in accordance with arrangements applicable at the
time for central assistance to states for development projects. The
balance of project financing would come from state government sources and
GOT. As a condition of invitation to negotiations, assurances were
obtained that participating states had included state subprojects in the
approved Development Plan with sufficient funds to cover the cost of the
subproject.
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING
(USS M)
Local SuRport                IDA          Total
Component            Source              Amount
--------------US$ MH-------
Madhya Pradesh          GOMP/GOT              5.4            7.8          13.2
Orissa                  GOO/GOI               7.5           10.6          18.1
Rajasthan               GOR/GOI               8.2           11.7          19.9
DOE                     GOI                   2.1            3.0           5.1
Special Subprojects    GOI                    3.3            5.0           8.3
Project Preparation        --                  -             1.0           1.0
TOTAL                                    26.5           39.1          65.6
Percentage                               40.4           59.6         100.0
C. Procurement
4.03    Under prior extension projects, GOI and the states have agreed
with IDA on uniform procurement procedures which would continue to be
applied to all subprojects under the project. The figures below do not
include special 5ubproject costs (US$8.3 M) or costs to be financed under
the fund for special studies (US$l M) since these would be tailored to the
individual requirements of each subproject or study as mutually agreed
between tbe GOT and IDA and thus no detailed breakup of the expected
expenditures can be given at this time.
4.04    Civil works contracts (US$28.8 M), mostly for houses and training
facilities, would be small and dispersed, both geographicallv and over
time; therefore, they would not be conducive to interna.ional competitive
bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following local advertisement and in accordance with es. :.blished state
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. There are numerous qualified
local contractors to carry out such work. It was agreed during nego-
tiations, however, that small civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 each or less may be carried out through force accounts.
4.05    Vehicles of various types (US$3.4 H) and equipment (US$1.0 M)
required under the project would be purchased in small quantities over
several years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance,



- 32 -
locally made vehicles of types already used by government departments
would be purchased. Thus, vehicles and equipment would also be procured
locally by the state governments according to existing government proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles, mopeds and bicycles
would be eligible for purchase by individual staff from loans provided by
the state government.
4.06    All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA both before
bids are invited and before contracts are awarded. Orders for purchase of
minor equipment, furniture and supplies would be bulked wherever possible
and purchased according to established local bidding procedures, except
where valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances on procurement
procedures mentioned in paras 4.04-4.06 were obtained during negotiations.
4.07    The balance of project costs (US$23.1 M) for the three state and
NOA/DOE subprojects would consist of adaptive research, support to univer-
sities and training (US$6.5 M), incremental salaries and allowances
(US$11.5 M), and incremental operating expenditures for office and
vehicles (US$5.1 M) which would not involve procurement. All of the above
figures include contingencies which amount to US$11.8 M.
D. Disbursement. Accounts and Audit
4.08    Experience with the first phase agricultural extension projects
indicate that up to seven years have been required to disburse credit
funds. This is in part due to inherent delays in project start-up and in
part to the time required to complete the civil works program (there being
a considerable lag between when authority is given to build and when the
building is completed). Since the bulk of project funds are associated
with follow-on operations (thus obviating start-up delays), one year's
reduction is justified and project funds would be disbursed over six
years. Disbursements would be made against:
(a) Civil Works - 60X of expenditures in Rajasthan, 50% in
Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, and 40% in DOE.
(b) Vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials - 100% of foreign
expenditures, 80% of local expenditures by states and 50% of
local expenditures by DOE.
(c) Training and research - foreign and local state expenditures
1OO%; 100Z foreign and 70% of local expenditures by DOE.



- 33 -
(d) Incremental salaries and allowances 1/ states 70%, DOE 60%.
(e) Special subprojects - 60%.
(f) Expenditures against the fund for special studies - 100%.
4.09    All applications prepared by the states and DOE for reimbursement
would be channeled through the Department of Economic Affairs as at
present, but with copies provided to DOE on state-prepared applications.
Expenditures on civil works and equipment and vehicles individually
exceeding Rs 25,000 would be listed item by item in summary sheets. Where
expenditures for training or payments for locally procured vehicles and
equipment exceed Rs 150,000 or payments under civil works contracts exceed
Rs 300,000, supporting documents vould be submitted to IDA for review at
the time of submission of withdrawal applications. Disbursements for
expenditures below these amounts in the above cases or for staff costs,
or for expenditures under the fund for speci-l studies would be against
certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would
not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by state govern-
ments and DOE. These documents would be available for inspection by IDA
during the course of project review missions. Certificates of expendi-
tures wouild be audited at least once every year and - report submitted to
IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. Schedules of
implementation for the DOE and state subprojects are presented in Annex 10
and the estimated disbursement schedule for NAEP in Annex 11 and in Annex
12 graphically compared vith the disbursement profile for the three IDA
agricultural extension credits in India which have been completed. While
substantially following the same curve, NAEP would lead the profile of the
completed projects by about a year since it would be financing for the
most part extension in states where the system has already been estab-
lished.
4.10    Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project. Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that for special subprojects, GOI, through DOE, would cause
the implementing agency tc maintain separate accounts of each project and
keep records not only of expenditures submitted to DEA through MOA/DOE for
reimbursement, but also of the implementing agency's agreed contributions.
All project accounts would be audited annually for each fiscal year, in
accordance with sound auditing principles, consistently applied, and the
jf Actual disbursements against this category in the states would be made
against a portion of total eligible staff costs (3.7% for Madhya
Pradesh, 4.4% for Orissa and 18.3% for Rajasthan) as a proxy for 70%
of incremental salaries and allowances. Extension staff eligible for
partial disbursement would be VEW, AEO, SMS, SDAO, ASDAO, DAO, ADAO,
DDA, JDA, Additional Director (Extension) and all staff of the exten-
sion monitoring and evaluation unit and, for Orissa, staff of the DOA
Farm Information Wing.



- 34 -
audit reports, together with certified copies of project accounts, sub-
mitted to IDA within nine months after the end of the fiscal year. Such
reports and audits would show, inter alia, that the funds withdrawn were
used for the purpose intended, that goods have been received or work
performed, and that payments have been made. All reports would be sub-
mitted by the subproject implementing agencies through DOE to the Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs, GOI, for onward transmission to IDA.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01    It is intended that the responsibilities for preparation and
supervision (including implementation assistance) of IDA-supported state
extension projects would be delegated increasingly to GOI. IDA would
continue to be responsible for the supervision of NAEP as a whole and
would have the right to suDervise state and other subprojects financed
under NAEP. As the three state subprojects to be financed under the
proposed credit have already been appraised by IDA, pending the prepara-
tion of other state subprojects to be possibly financed under future
NAEPs, the committees noted in paras 5.03-5.05 would act on special
projects. The Extension Technical Advisory Committee also would perform a
general advisory role on extension policy.
B. Ministry of Agriculture/DOE
5.02    Under the project, the staff of the Extension Division, reporting
directly to the Joint Secretary (Extension Commissioner), would be respon-
sible for administrative, organizational, planning and logistic aspects as
well as GOIs relations with State Governments. DOE's Field Extension,
Extension Training and Farm Information Units would report to the Joint
Secretary (Extension Commissioner) through the corresponding Extension
Division Wing, and the Administration Unit, directly to him. Both the
Ministry's core staff and that of DOE would participate in preparation,
appraisal, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of special subprojects
under NAEP.
C. Extension Technical Advisory Committee
5.03    The Extension Technical Advisory Committee (ETAC) would be estab-
lished as an interdisciplinary committee generally responsible for over-
seeing implementation of NAEP, for technical and policy guidance on an
all-India basis of extension strategy, and for coordination with related
GOI development departments and institutions. More specifically, ETAC
would give technical and policy guidance to GOI, states and other
implementing agencies; review extension strategies and impact; and coor-
dinate support needed for extension from research and other development
activities.



- 35 -
5.04    ETAC would have 12 to 15 members, with the Joint Secretary (Exten-
sion Commissioner) as Chairman and representation from the Planning Com-
mission, ICAR, DEA, MOA, State Agricultural Universities and State Depart-
ments of Agriculture. Others such as representatives of GOI Irrigation
Department and Forests, Animal Husbandry, Seeds, Horticulture and
Fisheries Divisions may be invited to attend certain meetings. In view of
the size of ETAC, appropriate subcommittees would be set up to deal with
particular matters. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ETAC
would be established by December 31, 1984.
D. Departmental Sanctioning and Expenditure Finance Committees
5.05    Confirmation of state or other implementing agency eligibility for
NAEP support and approval of appraised special subprojects for financing
under the NAEP credit would be done by one of two existing GOI committees
as follows: (i) a Departmental Sanctioning Committee consisting of the
Secretary, MOA (as Chairman), Financial Advisor, MOA, and representatives
of the Department of Expenditure in the Ministry of Finance and of the
Planning Commission. This Committee would approve subprojects with an
estimated cost of up to Rs 20.0 million and (iii an Expenditure Finance
Co-mmittee consisting of the Secretary, Expenditure, in the Ministry of
Finance (as Chairman), the Secretary, M0A, and a representative of the
Planning Commission. This Committee vould approve projects estimated to
cost over Rs 20.0 million. These two committees would meet to consider
NAEP matters as frequently as needed.
E. Proiect Management
5.06    HOA would have overall responsibility for the implementation of
NAEP; DOE, primary responsibility for supervision of subprojects; and the
state government or other implementation agency identified in the sub-
project report, primary responsibility for implementing subprojects.
5.07    Each implementing agency (state, MOA/DOE or other) would be
responsible for preparing semi-annual progress reports in a format
approved by IDA at negotiations. It vould forward its reports to XDA/DOE
and DEA. MOA/DOE, with IDA participation as required, would undertake
comprehensive semi-annual field reviews of each state or special sub-
project. It would prepare an annual work plan for forwarding to IDA.
Assurances were given during negotiations that MQA/DOE would submit to IDA
semi-annual progress reports each June and December, giving for each
subproject a summary of activities undertaken during the prior six months
(October-March, April-September), details of staffing, physical and finan-
cial targets achieved and implementation problems encountered, together
with an e-valuation of these reports, and that each implementing agency
would also undertake to prepare a subproject completion report for its
subproject. Both DOE and IDA would review subproject progress reports and
completion reports.



- 36 -
5.08    Financial management would follow the general pattern of that
prevailing under ongoing IDA credits for state extension projects. The
implementing agency (state, MDA/DOE or other) would have primary respon-
sibility for ensuring that the financial requirements of its subproject
are met. MOA/DOE, DEA and IDA would be responsible for monitoring com-
pliance with financial reporting requirements undertaken by the implement-
ing agency as well as for monitoring procurement, which would be standard
for all subprojects (details of which would be included in each subproject
report). DEA and IDA would make selective reviews of accounting proce-
dures and withdrawal claims.
Preparation of Subprojects
5.09    Subprojects (both statewide and special) would be prepared by GOI,
states or designated implementing agencies (e.g., State Agricultural
Universities) with DOE assistance. IDA would continue to give assistance,
as required. The Field Extension and Extension Training Units of DOE are
expected to play a greater role in providing assistance as their
capabilities and experience develop under NAEP. Before detailed prepara-
tion of a special subproject is undertaken, a draft proposal would be
submitted to DOE and forwarded by DOE to IDA for comment.
Appraisal of Special Subproiects
5.10    For special subprojects under NAEP, appraisal of the first four
sub-projects would be undertaken by a joint IDA/DOE mission. Thereafter,
responsibility for appraisal would rest with the Extension Division/DOE
under the overall direction of the Joint Secretary (Extension Commis-
sioner). The Joint Secretary (Extension Commissioner) would nominate the
members of each appraisal team, including a member of the Extension Divi-
sion core team and members of the Extension Training and Field Extension
Units of DOE as well as two or more other representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture (e.g., Crops Division, Finance Section), ICAR, Departments
of Agriculture of states other than the one proposing the subproject, or
other specialists necessary for appraisal.
5.11    Following approval by the Departmental Sanctioning or Expenditure
Finance Committee, as appropriate (see para 5.05), special subprojects
would be submitted to IDA for approval and for credit under the NAEP
account.
F. State Extension Organization
5.12    In most states, the Secretary for Agriculture and the Director of
Agriculture have overall responsibility for implementing statewide exten-
sion programs. Within each state an Additional Director of Agriculture
(Extension) is responsible to the Director of Agriculture for day-to-day
management of the extension service, both technically and administra-
tively, supported by the existing administrative machinery of the depart-
ment. The ADA makes arrangements for recruitment and training of exten-
sion personnel, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and prepara-
tion of periodic progress reports to DOE/IDA, and is supported, inter



- 37 -
alia, by a small staff of SNS responsible for improving the technical
quality of extension services in their specialities (for the main crops
grown throughout the state, plant protection, adaptive research, training,
water management, etc.). SMS help promote linkages between extension and
research work being carried out in the state, develop and interpret field
trials in their areas of specialization, organize training programs, and
serve as a clearing house of technical information.
5.13    Coordination at state level among extension, research and allied
agencies (input supply, finance, credit, adaptive research and state
agricultural university, etc.) is obtained by means of a series of commit-
tees at state, zonal and district levels (established under previous
IDA-assisted projects) as well as through informal contacts, exchange of
staff, workshops, training courses and collaboration in field testing
programs. Under the recommended system of extension, SMS employed by DOA
are expected to spend one-third of their time in liaison with research.
SAU research staff at zonal stations also allocate a certain part of their
time to DOA extension work. SAU arrange workshops at zonal stations and
statewide workshops for staff working on a particular crop or in a par-
ticular discipline. Under NARP (Credit 855-IN, December 7, 1978), zonal
stations are equipped to arrange courses for DOA extension personnel,
although some additional support will be provided under NAEP.
5.14    The State Technical Committee provides a formal means for review
of university research and field trials and for review of proposed
research programs and extension recommendations from Zonal Research
Advisory Committees.  The State Technical Committee is chaired by the
Director of Agriculture and consists of senior officers of the university,
concerned government departments and other agencies. It meets twice a
year.
5.15    Some states with IDA-financed extension projects (including
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan) also have a Project Coordinating
Committee, chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner or
Secretary for Agriculture and with the Additional Director of Agriculture
(Extension) acting as secretary to the committee. Its members include the
Vice Chancellor of the SAU, Directors of Agriculture and Horticulture, and
representatives of other concerned government departments and agencies.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review progress in project
implementation and to resolve any problems that may arise. Coordinating
committees are now being considered for all states with IDA-financed
extension projects.
5.16    Formerly, District Technical Committees were set up to review and
formulate recommended agricultural practices, including identification of
research priorities and adaptive research and field demonstration programs
for reference to the State Technical Committees. To avoid duplication and
to ensure better research/extension coordination, the District Technical
Committee is being replaced by the Zonal Research Advisory Committee
(ZRAC) established under NARP. It meets twice a year.



- 38 -
5.17    The key link between the SAU and the department of agriculture is
the monthly district workshop. These are used to train SMS, to review
recommendations and, on the basis of observations and experience, to adapt
them for field extension staff and to suggest modifications to the farm
trial programs for the pre-season zonal workshop's consideration.
5.18    Pre-season zonal workshops, chaired by the Zonal Joint Director of
Agriculture or Associate Director of Research (SAU), meet before the
kharif and rabi cropping seasons at one of the research stations or demon-
stration farms. The participants include scientists of the zonal research
and crop research stations, divisional ADAs, zonal directors, district
agricultural officers, all S14S in the zone and headquarters SIMS, and
scientists of the state agricultural university. The vorkshops typically
include representatives from credit, marketing, irrigation,
agro-industries and other concerned agencies. The participants review and
evaluate the farm trials and formulate the program for the next season,
discuss the program for applied research and location of trials, and
screen the research and farm trial results for modification of the exten-
sion recommendations of farm practices for the zone. It is important that
monitoring results of adoption experience of recommendations from the
previous similar season be a major consideration of such discussions. The
participants discuss implications of extension recommendations, seek
cooperation among various input supply agencies, and give attention to
problems of credit, marketing and supply. The outcome from these
workshops forms the basis of recommendations placed before Zonal Research
Advisory Committees (para 5.15). Combining the zonal workshops with the
Zonal Research Advisory Committee meetings is being considered since both
meet similar jurisdictions and have similar membership.
5.19    Zonal recommendations are reviewed-at a state level workshop held
before each cropping season. It is presideYover by the Vice Chancellor
of the agricultural university and attended by appropriate directors and
heads of disciplines of the university, associate directors of the
regional research stations, the Director of Agriculture, Additional Direc-
tor of Agriculture (Extension), Zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture and
such other officers of the Department of Agriculture as may be designated
by the Director of Agriculture. The state level workshop aims to review
the program of research and extension cooperation and coordination, deter-
mine research priorities and applied and adaptive research programs on the
basis of the recommendations of the zonal workshops, and screen the zonal
extension recommendations for farm practices. As at the zonal level,
combining the state level workshop and State Technical Committee is also
under consideration.   Thus, the formal structure would be simplified to
consist of zonal and state committees/workshops which would meet twice a
year.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20    Continuous monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an integral part of
all ongoing IDA-assisted extension projects. However, some participating
states were slow to establish monitoring and evaluation units and to begin
collection of appropriate data. In recognition of the shortcomings, in



- 39 -
1981-82 IDA sponsored a series of workshops and developed an operational
manual LJ to strengthen this aspect of work. State M&E units still suf-
fer, however, from constraints in staffing and other resources which
invariably hamper the quality, speed and, hence, relevance of their work.
5.21    Within a state, M&E is usually the responsibility of a Joint
Director of Agriculture at headquarters, reporting to the Agricutural
Production Commissioner or Secretary of Agriculture. He is assisted at
headquarters by a small staff, including a statistician and an economist.
The methodology used should conform to the basic H&E manual designed for
T&V extension system in India. In order for the M&E cell to be effective,
it should be located close to the senior officers in a state extension
system, i.e. the Secretary for Agriculture, the Agricultural Production
Commissioner, the Director of Agriculture and the Additional Director, who
are the officers who must initiate actions to modify and improve extension
operations on the basis of the available evidence. The cell should be
directly responsible to an officer senior to the Additional Director
responsible for extension. While this arrangement is well understood in
India, in many states the M&E cell, for all intents and purposes, reports
initially to the Additional Director for Extension which impairs objec-
tivity. Extension M&E cells may also be diverted from their primary duty
to others such as preparing departmental work plans and budgets or other
urgent administrative tasks. Zf Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that all states would undertake monitoring and evaluation of their
projects, in the form already agreed with GOI, and that susnary results
would be forwarded through DOE to IDA at least once a year.
5.22    The DOE subproject and special subprojects would be monitored by
DOE or by an agreed unit within the implementing agency specified in the
subproject appraisal. The DOE Field Extension Unit would also be respon-
sible for technical guidance to state M&E cells and for collecting and
coordinating the monitoring and evaluation reports from all subproject
states (as well as from those directly supported by IDA before REAP),
analyzing and forwarding them to IDA at prescribed intervals.
jj R. H. Slade and G. Feder, "The Monitoring and Evaluation of Training
and Visit Extension in India: A Manual of Instruction", World Bank,
October 1981. (Being revised for issue as a Staff Working Paper in
1984.)
G. Feder and R. H. Slade, "Experiences with the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion of Training and Visit Extension in India," World Bank Staff
Working Paper Number 595, May 1983.



- 40 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits of Imvroved Extension
6.01    Agricultural extension organized on the basis of regular training
and frequent field visits aims at increasing productivity on farms and the
income of farmers. While it is difficult to isolate yield increases
resulting from extension from other determinants, both officials and
farmers exposed to the new system feel that it is definitely an improve-
ment over earlier systems, and at least partially responsible for bringing
changes in the attitude of the farmers toward adopting improved farming
methods and in the actual rate of adoption. For example, the successful
introduction of new crops of soybeans and summer groundnuts in Gujarat,
pulses and a new variety of groundnuts in Karnataka and improved seeds of
sorghum and cotton in Maharashtra are attributed to the new system.
6.02    The benefits of improving the extension service are difficult to
quantify. For example, neither favorable farmer response to regular
contact with extension staff, nor the increased ability and self-esteem of
extension workers now permitted to perform chiefly agricultural functions
are easily measured, although both are readily apparent. Furthermore,
monitoring and evaluation of agricultural extension activities is rela-
tively new and the quality and consistency of data, particularly of data
on crop cuts (for which M&E staff are not responsible), is poor. Even if
survey accuracy could be guaranteed (which it cannot), the amount of
natural variation within which production change must be identified is
extremely high; crop survey programs target for a 5% standard error of
district level estimates which for most of the major crops would still be
equivalent, in absolute terms, to around twice the yield increment needed
for a 50Z internal rate of return on project investments. In fact, the
standard errors of official yield statistics at the district level are
sometimes in excess of 5Z. However, there has been considerable progress
in some states and some data on the effects of improved extension services
are becoming available. Examples from the three states which are complet-
ing five-year, IDA-supported projects and would be supported under NAEP
are given in paras 1.10-1.13 (Orissa), 1.19, 6.03 and 6.04 (Madhya
Pradesh) and 1.23 (Rajasthan). Further evidence will become available in
the Project Completion Reports for these projects which are now being
prepared. The findings generally indicate that efforts to improve
agricultural extension have been worthwhile.
6.03    In Madhya Pradesh, some indicators of the impact of the first
phase project have already been mentioned (para 1.19). The favorable
impact is also supported by production figures, despite the problem of
getting accurate production statistics. Official yield statistics for
five major crops given in Annex 6, Table 600, show a steady rise in both
yield and production, as well as the substantial dip that occurred in
1979/80 due to adverse climatic conditions. To spread the inter-year



- 41 -
variations due to climatic anomalies, a four-year rolling average L/ of
yield and production has been calculated, indexed to 100 for the period
ending 1979J80. Despite the strong belief within DOA that the official
statistics underestimate actual progress, the results show a very
favorable increase in production and productivity although the indices for
paddy are disappointing. (Of all crops, it is the paddy yield that DOA
most persistently challenges.)
6.04    Districts included in the project area were selected to give a
good cross-section of agro-ecological conditions within the state; for
this reason comparisons between project and non-project areas are
appropriate although performance in the Latter areas have subsequently
benefited from the Phase II project. In Annex 6, Table 601, a comparison
of three year average yields for the period 1977/78 through 1978/79 and
1980/81 through 1982/83 is given; both averages have been weighted accord-
ing to area planted each year and expressed as an index using 100 as the
base year yields in the project area. I/ Thp'e results indicate a very
favorable performance within the project areas compared to non-project
areas; they are also likely to underestimate the differences since
benefits are 'lagged' by averaging.
6.05    A recent review of monitoring and evaluation of extension of
several states gives evidence that adoption rates may be positively
associated with the frequency of visits both for contact and other
farmers. It also found that contact farmers and others who act according
to extension's recommendations generally obtain higher yields than other
farmers. (But it must be noted that in some places these farmers tend to
be richer and bigger although they may also be good disseminators.) In
some states, this difference is declining over time, indicating the diffu-
sion impact of extension. In Haryana, the results of crop cut experiments
show that with similar fertilizer doses, contact farmers obtained better
yields in part due to more appropriate combinations, timeliness and/or
methods of application. Similarly in the case of non-fertilized plots,
contact farmers often obtained higher yields especially in case of paddy
and chickpea, reflecting the impact of extension through low-cost inputs
and practices.
6.06    In late 1981 the need for objective empirical assessment- of the
impact of the T&V system led to a study being undertaken by the Bank in
collaboration with the Haryana Agricultural University at Hissar. 2J It
was designed to assess the extent to which T&V extension has accelerated
1/ A four-year rolling average was used so that the poor results for
1979/80 would be included in each calculation of the index.
2/ These averages exclude the climatically anomalous results for 1979/80.
O/ "A Comparative Analysis of Some Aspects of the Training and Visit
System of Agricultural Extension in India," Gershon Feder and Roger
Slade, World Bank, February 1984.



- 42 -
the diffusion of knowledge about improved farming practices and increased
farm productivity. A sample survey of farmers was used to assess the
strengths and weaknesses of the T&V system of agricultural extension
relative to other systems. First results from the study indicate that the
T&V extension system is more successful in delivering information to
farmers than the traditional system, that it achieves significantly higher
direct contact with farmers, and that rates of knowledge diffusion for all
vheat practices and for some paddy practices are faster than comparable
rates under the former system. Further, there is also no evidence that
extension agents' visits are continuously biased in favor of the largest,
or wealthiest farmers, as is often assumed.
6.07    Of major significance is the clear evidence from states and areas
where improved agricultural extension is becoming well established that it
is exerting considerable pressure on other support services (particularly
research and input supply) to improve performance in parallel with exten-
sion. This development underscores an important but frequently overlooked
lead effect of a strong extension service. Ultimately, it will be because
of pressure and performance accountability that the entire development
machinery will become better oriented to the needs of the target
beneficiary; and, where problems have been identified, they are in many
ways a reflection of the strengths of the system as well as its weaknes-
ses. Some of these weaknesses, as they impose risks to successful
implementation of NAEP and other follow-on projects are noted below.
B. Risks
6.08    Withdrawal of direct IDA involvement after project completion
increases the risk of single-line, single-purpose extension succumbing to
non-extension functions, and of staff being transferred to other
activities. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, staff are still
involved in administering, implementing and reporting on a number of
programs and target campaigns. These are a particular problem in areas
with special aid programs with a heavy subsidy component, but elsewhere
progress has also been slow because transferring these activities to
others has required changes in planning and funding procedures. Secondly,
the VEW are still seen by farmers as general as well as technical repre-
sentatives of government to whom all problems should be taken; to deny
farmers their assistance could jeopardize credibility. Such pressures
will continue until other support services become stronger and divisions
of responsibility more clearly defined. Finally, District Deputy Commis-
sioners (Collectors) can requisition at short notice staff and vehicles
from any department as need arises. This can be particularly disruptive
to extension work since it may tie up staff for lengthy periods, irrespec-
tive of season, and has been an important cause of weak Field supervision
by district and divisional level staff. Although extension will always be
vulnerable to outside pressures, there is also increasing recognition that
its primary function must be technical and that it cannot substitute for
weaknesses in o:her support services. Within the field of agricultural
development, however, the pressure for non-technical involvement of exten-
sion staff is likely to continue. This may be offset to some extent by



- 43 -
better planning so that these activities can be concentrated outside of
the main growing seasons. IDA participation is especially useful in
resisting these pressures. No precise period necessary for such involve-
ment can be established, but at least five years beyond the original
implementation period of a particular project should be expected given the
institutional changes called for. After this period of additional invol-
vement, extension efforts at state levels may be able to continue inde-
pendent of IDA support, particularly if the central supporting agency, the
Extension Division/DOE, has been sufficiently strengthened, as MAEP
proposes.
6.09    To develop professional cadres and give technical staff oppor-
tunity for promotion within their field of expertise is difficult although
needed to develop higher professional standards and to encourage staff to
remain within their specialities. The training which should be involved
with increased specialization and improvement of extension services would
be an enormous task. The number of specialists which current projects are
to employ amounts to more than 3,000 SMS at full development and there has
been a tendency in the past to underestimate the training needs of SMS as
well as the competition for trained people. Moreover, training in exten-
sion, planning, monitoring and evaluation and in management (especially at
middle and senior levels) is required to improve extension implementation
and its supervision. Use of training resources has been slow because of a
failure to identify systematically training needs of staff and to draw up
plans to meet those needs, and because of difficulties in selection of
appropriate staff for training, altbough considerable improvement is now
apparent in most states. Links with universities where extension staff
can be trained need to be further strengthened. Appropriate selection for
training and cadre development would continue to be sought through NAEP as
well as supervision of ongoing projects. NAEP would help deal with exten-
sion training needs by strengthening the Extension Training Unit of DO!,
through the training components in state subprojects, and through various
special subprojects in training which may be submitted.
6.10    A number of general administrative constraints and policy problems
frequently encountered in current extension projects are likely to con-
tinue to impede development of extension and vill require continued atten-
tion from GOI and IDA. Promotion by seniority, frequent transfer, change
of discipline and failure to implement objective selection criteria for
training are key practices in all government departments that adversely
affect extension. Little progress has been made in these areas although
some success has been achieved in altering other aspects of administration
to the benefit of extension (e.g., the installing of a technical,
single-function extension service and a field orientation, the weakening
of the "target approach" to agricultural development among agricultural
and other officers, reduction in paperwork at all levels of the extension
system, and greater delegation of authority).
6.11    In civil works, progress has been slow frequently through lack of
coordination between the Department of Agriculture and the constructing
agencies, the inability of Public Works Departments to deal with small
projects and because of problems in identifying suitable contractors and



- 44 -
in awarding contracts. In vehicle loans and operation, inadequate loan
amounts and terms and travel and mileage allowances have often discouraged
staff from using vehicles and from purchasing motorcycles or bicycles,
although the situation for staff-owned vehicles has improved. At nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that adequate loans and travel allowan-
ces would be available. For government-owned vehicles, a strong need is
to ensure that adequate vehicle operating and maintenance allowances are
given. Supervision of existing projects and implementation of NAEP sub-
projects would continue to address these problems.
6.12    An important concern of a strengthened DOE and the Extension
Division in the central Ministry of Agriculture will be the coordination
of extension activities with GOI Special Schemes. Special programs at
state level may also conflict with extension programs and activities. In
most states, many subjects of interest to agricultural extension services
such as animal husbandry, horticulture, water management, soil conserva-
tion, farm forestry and agricultural credit are the responsibility of
organizations other than the Department of Agriculture. Reconciliation of
extension with continued support for multipurpose village worker/community
development approach is also important to the continued success of exten-
sion reform. Coordination within states is encouraged by committees at
various levels and through the state Agricultural Production Commissioner
and would be further strengthened at central level by the composition of
the proposed Extension Technical Advisory Committee under NAEP.
6.13    Without an effective two-way communication between research and
extension, the technology needed by farmers to improve prodaction may not
be developed and transferred. To promote such linkage between extension
and research, each state participating in NAEP obtained before nego-
tiations a written understanding between the SAU and the Department of
Agriculture spelling out responsibilities for support of the extension
services. RAEP would also provide some support to universities for exten-
sion-related expenditures. To date, technology has not been a major
constraint, but as the backlog of research findings becomes more videly
adopted, additional adaptive research, field testing and development of
new technology will be required. While early work may be aimed at zonal
and district recommendations, ultimately technology needs to be directed
more to meet the needs of smaller groups of farmers and those in more
remote and difficult areas. NAEP together with HARP (for which a second
project is under preparation) would help to strengthen research efforts to
provide relevant technology for extension to trarsfer to farmers.
6.14    Funding, even in the less disadvantag'd states, is a problem which
is only partially met by IDA resources. The GOI passes on 70Z of all IDA
disbursements to the states as "additionality", i.e., over and above
normal central plan assistance for that state, as an incentive for states
to seek foreign assistance for their investments. Some states are reluc-
tant to take on the additional long-term commitment of resources which
building up of an extension staff requires, especially in view of the
additional financial burden after project completion. NAEP requirements
have been reviewed with the participating states and with GOI and are
considered manageable.



- 45 -
6.15    Perhaps the most critical risk in the proposed NAEP is whether the
central entity being developed in MOA to support extension can attract the
personnel and gain the support needed to enable it to supplement and
eventually take over much of the responsibility now with IDA to advise and
assist states in extension development. As indicated above, DOE's
progress under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project bas been slow.
Many positions remain unfilled, in part due to the inability of DOE to
attract qualified staff from the states. The present strategy is to
design an organization which depends on a few high-level positions, which
are attractive (part of this staff would be in the Ministry itself), and
on junior technical staff which can also be recruited, thus minimizing the
number of middle level positions in the beginning, but creating them as
they can be filled by promoting junior staff. In this way, DOE would
build up a professional cadre over the next ten years and meet its staff-
ing requirements largely by promotion from within. While the now proposed
reorganization of units within MOA dealing with IDA-supported agricultural
extension and the appointment of key staff are expected to improve the
center's ability to assume its role, IDA would continue to work directly
with states vhile passing on to the center more responsibilities as it
becomes strengthened to handle them.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMNDATIONS
7.01    The following actions were undertaken before credit negotiations:
(a)  The state governments involved had completed to IDA's satis-
faction, their first phase projects, including fulfillment
of all legal covenants (including financial reporting cov-
enants), totally withdrawn all first phase credit funds or
agreed with IDA on disposal of the balance of such funds,
and made satisfactory arrangements for submission of the
Project Completion Report (para 3.03).
Report (para 3.03).
(b)  The state governments involved had made adequate budgetary
provisions for the operation of the first project year and
confirmed that they have included the project in the Seventh
Five Year Development Plan with sufficient funds to cover the
cost of the project (para 4.02).
(c)  Each state government involved had concluded a memorandum
of understanding with its SAU as to the role of the SAU in
project implementation (para 6.13).
7.02    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and the
involved states on the following:
(a) The states and DOE vould fill incremental staff positions accord-
ing to or earlier than the schedule in their respective annexes
(paras 3.05, 3.14-3.20).



- 46 -
(b) Each participating state, by September 30, 1986, would review
project execution, especially the adequacy of staff arrangements,
and increase the staff and facilities deployed for project imp-
lementation to the extent revealed as necessary by the review
(para 3.05).
(c) GOI, by March 31, 1986, would review the execution of the
Extension Division and DOE component of the project, especially
the adequa^y of staff arrangements, and increase the staff and
facilities deployed for project implementation to the extent
revealed as necessary in the review (para 3.15).
(d) The states would assure that all extension positions assigned
to the administrative control of the DOA under this project shall
be used exclusively for agricultural extension and retained under
administrative control of DOA during project execution (para
3.05).
Ce) The states would ensure that extension staff would not be ad-
versely affected in respect of their entitlement to emoluments,
benefits and promotional prospects by reason of assignment
Cpara 3.05).
(f) The states would ensure that credit and travel allowances would
be made available to staff on such terms and conditions as to
create incentives for the purchase and use of motorcycles, mopeds
and bicycles (para 3.07).
(g)  GOI would by December 31, 1984, establish in a manner satis-
factory to IDA, adequate staff positions in DOE and the Extension
Division in order to enable them to carry out the Project, and
would cause DOE and the Extension Division to fill incremental
staff positions in accordance withs the agreed-upon schedule
(paras 3.14-3.20).
(h) Each implementing agency would implement procurement procedures
satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.03-4.06).
Ci) GOI, through DOE, would cause the implementing agency to main-
tain separate accounts of each project and keep records of ex-
penditures (para 4.10).
(j) Each implementing agency would prepare and present to MOA/DOE for
transmission to IDA administrative and financial data regarding
progress of the project, including procurement of goods and
services, civil works, expenditures, audits and requests for
disbursement in accordance with the schedules agreed (para 4.10).
(k) GOI would assure that by December 31, 1984, it would establish
the Extension Technical Advisory Committee (paras 5.03-5.04).



- 47 -
(1)  GOI, through MOA/DOE, would undertake in-field supervision in
all states participating in IDA-supported agriculture extension
projects, would provide technical assistance as the states may
require, and would submit to IDA an annual work plan and a
semi-annual progress report each June and December, giving for
each subproject under the credit, in a form acceptable to IDA,
a summary of activities undertaken during the prior six months
(October-March, April-September), detals of staffing, physical
and financial targets achieved and implementation problems en-
countered, together with an evaluation of these reports (para
5.07).
(m) The states would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the
projects in the form already agreed with GOI. Further, they
would forward to IDA, through MDA/DOE, a yearly summary of
results in a form acceptable to IDA (para 5.21).
7.03    To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and to recognize
the early initiatives taken by GOI and the state governments to implement the
project, it is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of
SDRs 2.0 M be made available for expenditures after July 1, 1984.
7.04    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of SDRs 38.6 M (US$39.1 M) to GOI on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                              Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
T&V-based Agricultural Extension
The training and visit (T&V) extension methodology provides
farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with current advice on farming
practices best suited to their specific conditions and emphasizes proven
practices with immediate impact on production and income. It is
accomplished by a regular system of training and visits by field staff,
supported by professional advisors from within the state's Department of
Agriculture and agricultural research institutions. This system calls for
a single line of command from the Director of Agriculture to the Village
Extension Worker (VEW) and the merging of all agricultural field staff,
including those engaged in crop-specific agricultural development
programs, in a unified extension service, employed exclusively on agricul-
tural extension. To reflect their exclusively agricultural role, such
workers are called Village Extension Workers. Non-agricultural village
level activities are handled by the Village Level Workers (VLW) with the
Community Development Department and other staff.
The number of farm families covered by each extension worker
varies depending on population density, accessibility, intensity of farm-
ing, and other measures of need. Normally, between 700 and 800 families
are served by a VEW, with these divided into eight groups which would be
visited regularly on a given day during a two-week cycle. The VEW works
primarily with 8 to 10 contact farmers selected within each group. Exten-
sion messages are kept simple, concentrating initially on the most impor-
tant crops in the locality and the most important aspects of crop cultiva-
tion at that time. Emphasis is placed on improving cultural practices.
At a later stage, use of inputs and more sophisticated cropping systems
may be emphasized. The VEW is supervised in the field by Agricultural
Extension Officers (AEO), each supervising about eight VEW, who work with
them during field visits to convince farmers to adopt recommendations.
VEWs receive the extension message for the fortnight at training sessions
held on a fixed day in each fortnight by Subject Matter Specialists (SMS).
Training and visits take nine days per fortnight.  The three other working
days in the period are devoted to field trials, making up missed visits,
and performing occasional office work.
Technical Support and Supervision
The general pattern calls for staff at the subdivisional and
district levels to be strong enough to ensure satisfactory supervision,
training and guidance. Subdivisional level staff incl-_de a Subdivisional
Agricultural Officer (SDAO) with an Assistant SDAO (ASDAO) in large sub-
divisions so as to keep a ratio of about 6 to 8 AEO per supervisor. To
strengthen technical support and training, a team of SMS at subdivisional



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
49 -
level is provided, initially one each in agronomy, plant protection and
training. At district level, a District Agricultural Officer (DAO) super-
vises the work of subdivisional staff, while specialists provide addi-
tional technical support in such specialities as water management, farm
implements, entomology and horticulture. SMS divide their time equally
between field visits (including guiding and supporting lower level staff),
research (including field trials), and training.
Civil Works
To enable regular and frequent farm visits, field staff need to
live near their areas of work. States undertake to provide suitable
low-cost housing or attractive rent allowances. All states are encouraged
to use rented accommodations where possible; however, in some rural areas,
housing, either institutionally owned or for rent, is limited. In such
areas, state subprojects usually provide for construction of part of the
low-cost housing needed. Generally, each five-year state extension
project provides housing for only 10 to 20Z of VEWs and AEOs. With
increased staffing levels, certain states need also to construct new field
offices and to expand existing ones. In addition, some states need to
develop training facilities to meet increased needs.
Transport
Adequate transport is needed to enable field extension staff to
maintain fixed schedules of visits and for supervisory staff to reach the
field easily and frequently. Generally, projects provide for additional
motor vehicles at headquarters, zonal, district and subdivisional levels;
for motorcycles for AEO, SMS and other supervisory staff; and for bicycles
for VEW. State governments extend credit to staff to purchase motorcycles
and bicycles. Credit terms and travel allowances are reviewed to ensure
sufficient incentive for purchase and use of these vehicles by field
staff. Subprojects also may provide funds for operation and maintenance
of vehicles and for staff travel and subsistence allowances.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
- 50 -
Equipment and Incremental Operatinst Costs
To meet increased needs for training and office equipment, state
projects may provide for simple audio-visual aids to support field opera-
tions and for necessary office equipment and furniture. Incremental
operating costs such as vehicle operation, materials, housing and travel
allowances may also be covered. In addition, projects may also provide
funds for printing various materials for VEW, for purchase of small
samples of seeds and other inputs for farmer training and establishment of
field trials and for simple visual aids.
Training
State extension projects generally support a variety of training
activities. These include the key training program: research/extension
monthly workshops, fortnightly training sessions, pre-service training,
additional seasonal training programs and special short courses for all
staff. For more senior staff, in-state training programs are organized by
departments of agriculture and by state agricultural universities. Each
state designates an officer to help coordinate training activities in the
state with the agricultural university and with the department of agricul-
ture.
Monitoring and Evaluation
To provide systematic evaluation of performance, a small unit with
staff responsible for carrying out regular sample surveys is set up at
each state headquarters, under control of the Secretary of Agriculture.
Ad hoc studies may also be made with focus on specific topics. Detailed
guidelines for monitoring and evaluation procedures were drawn up and
agreed with the Directorate of Extension during previous IDA credits and
subsequently revised and reviewed by IDA staff. These procedures are
described in the basic manual, "The Monitoring and Evaluation of Training
and Visit Extension in India: A Manual of Instruction," World Bank,
October 1981, which is intended to provide a uniform system of evaluating
and reporting for states undertaking extension reorganization and improve-
ment with IDA assistance.
References
Daniel Benor, James Q. Harrison and Michael Baxter, Agricultural
Extension: The Training and Visit System. Washington, D.C.,
World Bank 1984. (This is a revised and expanded version of the
publication of the same title by Benor and Harrison, World Bank, 1977.)
Daniel Benor and Michael Baxter., Trainin2 and Visit Extension.
Washington, D.C., World Bank, 1984.



37V80  Or 1M-uINa  AICUl03L flhUNlW  IflT
1.11 Ceelomut _ad Curnt Lchi_mmet
Proiect/Crodit           st                   creIit          r  Cov d              _           t.nioe Staff (on.)                Civi l x  L  ms
(DIIsS 1)  uDib.  Crop     Diet.   Fawn    39   DhVi1.   Diet.              ebdiLv.                              C7CIJ/
L      land            F1 ilias        1    1    0 _260  SMS 0 A            0V    Office  tea    4UID l1 ycl.
(X ha     (NO.)    (l)
OIIUS     682-DN
Effe tive 6177      full Devi.         40.0   20.0      4.5       30      3.4      2      91     30    0    62   124  778 6502    16   2323    141  350
Cl=ein   61/4       Currt (7/34)               13.1     4.5       30      3.4      2      91    30    0    62   111  778  6470    16   1949    143  3051
(327)1k
WEST ! ZGL 690-ZN
Effective 3177      Full C.l.          23.2   12.0   64.          17      4.0      *       0     17  51    50   150  450 400         0    1345    133   30
Closing   9184      Currnt (2/34)               4.7    646         17     4.0      4       0     17  22    35    50  250  1923       0     273     73   1650
NAZ&.A rAIU  712-IN
Effective 9/77      Full DCVl.         2D.9    10.0     7.0       15      2.1      4       0     16  30    50   150  731 3951    52    *12         87   2213
Cloning   9/83      Current (71")               9.7     7.0       15      2.1      4       0     14  79    47   150  730  3007    49    439        87   1265
ASSl      72B-1N
Effective 9/77      Fall DCwl.         16.4     1.0     2.1        9       1.9     5       5      9   la    50   40  355  244       6    1649    112  2135
Cloning   3IS      Current (2/34)              6.1     2.1        9       1.9     4       5     14  13    53    50  257 2441       5    1211      0    2135
MJAST3  751-IN
Effective 6/78      Full Cevl.         26.6    13.0    6.5        20       2.9     4       0     31   60         150  540  4000    53   1452    122  3500
Cloeing   6/13      Current (7144)             13.0    6.5        20       2.9     4       a     30   55         140  500  3550    23    399    103    550
m1ug     761-IN
Effective 5178     rFll Devl.          16.0    3.0      3.3       31       7.6     5       7     32  5S    35    70  625 497    52    g00          52   7050
Closing  10/34      Currnt (9183)               2.3     3.3       31       7.4     1       7     23    0    35    50  290 31311     0       0      52   1090
2J5U1   o62-IN
Effective 12179     fuil DWl.          14.7     7.0    9.3       1i        2.4     4       a     1i   4     58    7   431  3440    37      718    13    235
Cloning   12/34     Curret (12/83)              6.7     9.3       13       2.4     4       a     15  45    52    39  381  2919    24      40 - 133   1074
UW32A3A  862-IN
Effective 12V79     Full Devl.         13.2     6.2     4.0       11       1.0     5       2     11   11    30   103  1U  1490    31      551      67   40
Closing   12/84     Curret (12153)              3.4     4.0       11       1.0     5       0     12  11    27   103  1S  1392        9     31      67    373
UaV3 U42-IN
Effective 12/79     wall DEVl.         23.9    11.1    11.0       19      3.56   22        a     27  35   175  10  750  5200   67   140          123   5470
Clouing   1213      Curret (12213)              7.9    11.0       19       3:56   22       a     27  00   167   152  72   419    12    357    12    34
IU    102-IN
ffective  8/30      lull Cowl.         15.3   10.0      1.4       13      2J    11         0     13   39    47   144  373  1952    0      53      11    1977
Closing   64/6      Curret (1/34)               2.2     1.4       13       2.8    21       0     13  39    47  1i   294  1357       0       3      74      3
1135-IN
Effective  7/81     lull Dael.         33.2   23.0   13.2         25       5.76    5      11     29   32   100   110  747  6300     1    1353    173   30
Cloeing    G/17     current (I/B4)              5.0  12.2         25       5.76    5       7    29   32   106  143  612  5336       1       0    11i  1A1
A5aL jUmJ   1137-IN
Effective  7/Ul    pull DCvl.          45.6   23.0    6.3         14      1.1      3       0     14   57   100   297   45 4777    4    1750      137  3U
Cloeing    6/87     Current (114)               6.3     6.3       14      1.3      3       0     14   57    92  237  621 3945    1         6     137   13
.MMin 113-IN
Effective  7/31     lull DCvi.         60.0   37.0   11.0         33       3.8     4              33  U     81   243 1114  749    90   332        170 9471
Cloeing    /137     Current (3/3)               2.7   M.A.        M.A.    2.6      1              13  25   31   8U  34   2014    0         0      35       a
h1..116        1219-ID
Effective  6132     pull Dowl.          9.7     6.0   11.3        23       5.5     7       4      22  4    67   201  85   6776    4       If      00   7619
Cloeing    3/38     Crrent (2134)               0.4   11.3       23        5.5     7       a       2 51    GG  177 44 3524    3            0  * 1          0
Ij  CurreUt dimberemut data are for 6/84.
fk Nber. undr countrectin  in perentaee.
Anguet 22. 1934



- 52 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
N&TIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Criteria for Participation in NAEP
A. State Subproiects
1. Commitment to professional agricultural extension, including the
establishment and maintenance of a single line of administrative
and technical command.
2. Intention to meet MOA guidelines on recruitment and personnel
administration of extension staff (minimum experience and academic
and other qualifications for each level of extension staff;
professional cadres for all extension workers (including SMSs and
VEWs); recognition of the importance of upgrading VEWs and all
staff; suitable remuneration; promotion and professional growth
opportunities for all levels of extension staff; etc.).
3. Preparation of a suitable five-year subproject along the lines of
the model outline j/ and its submission to DOE for appraisal.
4.  If a second phase IDA-financed project, satisfactory completion of
previous project, including fulfillment of all legal covenants
(including financial reporting covenants), total withdrawal of all
first phase credit funds (or satisfactory agreement on disposal of
balance of funds), and submission of a Project Completion Report
vhen due.
5. Sanction of all posts deemed needed (to be done before the sub-
project can be approved) and key positions filled.
6. Satisfactory structure and use of linkages with agricultural
research, inputs (fertilizer, seed, agro-chemical, credit, etc.)
and marketing organizations, agricultural universities and other
development departments. The key to getting cooperation among
these elements should be the various coordinating and technical
committees: Project Coordination Committee, State Technical
Committee, seasonal zonal workshops (or District Technical Com-
mittee or Zonal Research Advisory Committee), monthly workshops,
and fortnightly training sessions. (Note: A. Where extension
coverage is expanded to include horticulture, animal husbandry,
forestry, etc., coordination/technical committees may need recon-
stituting. This should be done before subproject approval.
jJ State Subproject Outline, Item 6, Project Files.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
-53 -
B. Seasonal zonal workshops should be amalgamated with NARP zonal
workshops where feasible.)
7. Preparation of a statement by the state agricultural university
detailing its present and proposed involvement in activities sup-
porting extension (research, state technical/research committees,
seasonal and monthly workshops, farm trials, training of extension
staff, etc.). This statement will be an annex to the subproject
report or an agreed memorandum between the SAU and Department of
Agriculture. jJ
8. Assurances on continued funding of ongoing Phase I costs through-
out the period of the NAEP subproject and on funding of Phase II
subproject costs not covered by Credit. F'11 budget provision for
the first year for the Phase II subproject and confirmation that
the state has included the project in the Five Year Plan with suf-
ficient funds to cover the cost of the project.
9. Provision of an adequate input supply structure ane staff so that
extension staff are not involved in input distribution except in
an advisory/information role.
10. Agreement to meet NAEP reporting, accounting, auditing and
monitoring and evaluation requirements, including preparation of
a subproject completion report (PCR).
11. Agreement to participate in periodic reviews of subprojects by DOE
and by IDA.
12. Agreement on procurement and disbursement procedures.
13. Undertaking to continue subproject extension activities after the
five-year disbursement period, even without any further Bank-group
financial or other assistance.
B. Special SubDroiects
1. Identification of suitable implementation agency.
2. Preparation of a suitable subproject proposal and its submission
to DOE/IDA for appraisal.
jj Model Draft Memorandum of Understanding between Department of Agricul-
ture and State Agricultural University, Item 5A, Project Files.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
-54 -
3.  While special subprojects may be approved any time during the NAEP
implementation period, they should be completed in time for full
disbursements by the closing date of the NAEP credit.
4.  Provisiou of adequate resources by implementation agency to im-
plement the subproject.



* 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NVTIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Sunarv Data on State SubDroiects
Madhya
Pradesh     Orissa     Raiasthan
Population (M)                         52          26           34
Z Scheduled Caste and Tribe            35          37           29
No. Agric. Districts                   45          36           26
Agricultural Subdivisions                           56
Agric. Land (M ha)                     18.7         6.8         16.0
Z Cropped Area Irrigated               10          20           21
No. Farm Holdings (M)                   5.9         3.6          4.3
Land Holdings
( Farmers/% Area)
Small - below 1 ha                 32.8/4.2    47115        30.2/2.9
Semi-med. 1-4 ha                   40.5/25.9   46/53       38.2/18.2
Medium 4-10 ha                     19.9/35.9    6/23        20.0/26.7
Large 10 ha and above               6.8/34.0    1/9         11.6/52.2
t7o. Major Agro-Climatic Zones       12          10            9
Staffing Al
Headquarters
Add'l/Jt./Dep. Dir. Ag. A             4           5            4
B           0           0            2
C           4           5            6
SmS                      A            4           2            0
B           0           0            1
C           4           2            1



-56-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Madhya
Pradesh     Orissa      Raiasthan
Zonal/Regional Ranae
Jt. Dir. Ag/DDA           A           10          13           12
B           0            0            2
C          10           13           14
SNS                       A            0          78           12
B           6            0            5
C           6           78           17
District
DAO/DDAO                  A           49         130           31
B           0            0            8
c          49          130          39
SHS                       A          214         124           60
B          16           96          22
c         230          220          82
Subdivision
SDAO                      A          131      )                 0
B           0       ) Included      59
c         131       )                59
3    in
SHS                       A         393       )               150
B           0       ) District      18
C         393       )              168
Field
AEO                       A         1704         778          540
B          47            0         124
C        1751          778         664
VEW                       A       11220         6502         4000
B         283            0         836
C       11503         6502        4836



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Madhya
Pradesh         Orissa         Raiasthan
M&E Staff
Sr. Level         A                 24                0                13
B                  0               4                 11
C                 24               4                 24
Field Level       A                249                0                68
B                  0              77                  9
C                249              77                77
Other - A              Res.(SAU)  165  Res.(SAU)  90   Trg.            18
Trg.&Info.  34  Adapt.Res. 39   Adapt.Res. 129
Other - B              SAU           3  Info.        12   Adapt.Res.  29
Trg.&Info.   3
Civil Works
HousinL
B                800  VEW       3000 VEW          1300 VEW
178  AEO        314 AEO           168 AEO
139 ADAO/SAS       82 SMS
Z VEW & AEO Housed       A           6               26                23
c         41               76                50
Other - B                           11 Press         13 Training    2 Adapt.
& Info.         Halls          Research
Bldgs.      15 District        Stations
Offices    20 Trg. Halls
62 ADA Garages 4 Offices
Vehicles - B
Cars                                  0               2              3
Jeeps                                53             38              90
Motorcycles/mopeds                  700            300             200
Bicycles                           2000            750             700
Other                                                 I a/v Van      1 Tractor
a/ Does not include all support staff to be financed.
A = Before WAEP
B = Additions to be financed under NAEP.
C - Total/Target after NAEP.



INDIA
NATIOMAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Orissa: Trends in Crop Productivity and Production
Period
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976177  Averaae  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  Averase  Change
Yields       ------------- Index ----------------------   Kg/ha   -------------------- Index ---------------   Kg/ha                      X
Key Crops
Rice
Autumn       100        116        71       116        87       496       141       137         93       120       133       596       +20
Winter       100       104         80       108        80       900       108       114        84        117       103     1001        +11
Summer       100        96         94       105       111      1379       104        95        95       116       102      1398        + 1
Ragi            100        95        75        85        64       706        82         88        59        92        96       728       + 4
Til             100        99        87        89        77       455        91         95        51        93       107       444       - 2
Groundnuts    100         106        98        88        81      1315         87        96        50        96        97      1189       -10
maize           100       105        96       126       106       846       109        118        78       123       142       910       + 8
Mustard         100        88        83        99        83       442         93        95        57        95       103       419       - 5
Wheat           100        95        94       102       106      1672       112        107        97       109       113      1814       + 8
Composite Aleraxe
Cereals       100        102        81       107        82       835       108       111         78       111       105       905       + 8                 A
Pulses        100         78        78        88        81       465        95        97        65         98    *107        485        +4 4
Oilseeds      100        105        86        88        81       649        85        91         55        93       101       603       - 7
AM              --      - -- Index  ---------------------- 000 ha pa  ---                  ---       Indez                  '000 ha pa
Rice          100        106        99       105        98      4541        98        97         92        93        91    *4248        - 6
Otber          100       104       112       133       138       587       149        149       137       199       162       794       +35
ereals
Pulses        100       102        107       120       103      1002       146       167       176       184        199      1637       +63
Olseeds       100        103       123       132       113       430       145        178       192       196       222       700       +63
Toducton    ----------- Index ------------------------- 000 tons p                               Index                     000 tons pa
Rice          100        111        79       114        s0      3861       108       111         73       108        75      4000       + 4
Other          100       102        97       131       115       424       145        147        99       203       162       588       +39
Cereals
Pulses        100         97        88       108        84      4666       139       162       116       181        214       794       +70
Oilseeds      100        108       109       117        91       279       124        161       105       183       223       422       +51
Source:  from DAlP. Orissa.
II
W



Ottlo ZlilaUttwK ElifE"SIM mitOJ
f*el 502. INCUOI3?M. s1r  COSTS - ORSSA
Sotll#  Cut T*2I
..............     ...   nt--s--- ,    ------------- --- ----------- --------_ ___-----------_ ____  _____
Wkit W4/0U A/k      5 841? 373M l    tein  f tl   ost 45 IS U5/6   6/7   17/U    5/19   lotal       4/35   3516   W5?7  17/           I3   lo9el
5221  22SXX S22823 12ni  22503 1S522 222*2  32*t XiSsa .. sis.., ins...3 iSSX$s::... ma  ... izr 2 t Si     --A. 2J  *SS.  3n223  flfl= r - -  ts".
1. DIStIIlCI
SUJ. MITTIe   iCilST                       No      22    42   62   32    96   304    16   352.0   72.0  99.0 1312,0 I.536.0  4.W60    36.2   751.2 21U.SU  -1279. 2 2.09J.2 6.75.9
Sub.Tote2 PiSTliCT                                                                               352.0  672.0   92.0 12312.01.3.6.0  4364.0    3".1   751.2 1.23l5 12,91.1 2.093.2  6.075.?
2. I2fCTlOI
...........
DAM1t (WL LUII is                          N0       4    0    12    12   12   4t   44    240.0  480.0  720.0  720.0   no.0  2.50.0    249.6  536.5  341.2  921.4   931.2  3.S49.9
SAt.-otal IWtNtMII                                                                               240.0  430.0   720.   720.0   72e.0  2.50.0    249.6  536.5  362.2  922.4  931.2  3,349.9
I. PN1ITOll t6 0 EVAUATIOI  I NO LEWLI
................. ........................ ...     ...
JOINT Stoll3Cm                             go       I     I     I     I     1    5    25       25.0    25.e   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0    26.0   27.9   29.9   32.0   34.1   149.9
Oa2C. tCaisi1                              No       I    I      I    I      I    5    16       26.0   26.0   16.0       6.0   16.0    30.3    16.6   :1.9   19.1   20.5    21.3    95.9
M    SOCIaL(6121                           no       1    I      I    I    2       5    16      16.0   16.0   16.0    26.0   16.0    00.0         16.6    I7.     19.1    20.5   21.3    95.9
STAtiSliCiN                                No       I    I      I     I     I    5    16       26.0   14.0   16.0   16.0   16.0    30.0          16.6   17.9   19.1   20.5   21.3    95.9
FILS ShIDVIS                               No0     13    11    13    13   13       5    15    If9.0  19 I.0  29.0  195.0  I2.0   975.0    202.3  213.0  233.2  249.6  26W.7  2.169.3
FIElD IST9l6ATOR                           ND      4     46    46   46   46   230    11    50.0  5ou.0  50.0  50.-  50.0  2530.t0   ;6.2  565.6   65.2  647.6  61.   3434.2
SIAIISIICMl  CLEIM                         N0      to   i2   is   is    2        9      9    162.0   162.0  26.0  162.0  262.0   310.0   166.5  232.1   293.3  207.3  7201    971.4
M'-Tali NoI?j   I   MUD CVftb.TION I lO iLEVL                                                    936. 0   96.0   9U.0  936.0  936.0  4.o00    973.4  .0463. u1219.5 12127.9 2u275.5 5612.6
....... .........
is c1.                                     IC       6    6      6      6     6    30   12      u.06 6.06   U.06O6   u6.0    30.0                 6.6   73.1   73.9   34.5    9.9    35.3
ACMTAn                                     la0     12    12   12    12   12   64    10    122.0   120.0  120.0  122.0  120.0   60.0    124.3  134.1  243.5  153.6  12635    719.6
CL                                         No      60    60    60 o0    60   300 o            50.0   50.0   40.0  540.0  540.0  270.0    512.6  603.6   US-.  691.1   7.9  323.0
STVUV13S/ T 151                            la      0o   20   10   0o   to   50    20    200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0   10.0   50s.0    204.0   12.3  2l2.6  1223.0  136.3   19.6
RIKES                                      go       I     I     I     I     I    5 3            3.0     3.0     0.0     3.0    3.0    40.0        3.3    3.9    l.o    50.2   10.9        4.0
OlKlNtS                                    No0     20     0    U      43   43  129       A     60.0   230.   250.   251.0  250.0 12014.0         U.4  201.2  306.6   30.2  3513  12254.0
Sut0otal        I SINT                                                                            9.0 2024.0 I2092.0   20920 2I9.0  ,234.0    mto 1.1133.4 12306.2 2397.5 1WWI2 6.254,9
totll SITM   SALMIES                                                                          2422.0 312020 3740.0 4.060,0 l4.4   27ND0    2110.9 3.464 46473.2  195.9 5sX.60 21.903.31
... . .___. . .. . .   
/a EAGI CUISI5 KE 73T0M1  S AMIN WnITWI K C:IT0I  OI1 ;I W3MVDA32 OK am N  a 5l51
AUSnI 14. 2934 122109



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTLRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
table 503. CIVIL  MRKS - ORISSA
.tailed Cost Teble
(Rs '00)
Quantity                                             Base Costs                                  Totals Including Contingecies
-------- ------- ---------------------  Li,{t --- - --------------------------- --- -_,--__      X ----  - __ ---- - --------------------------------
Unit  84/65 85/B6 86/87  97/88 88/99 Total   Cost   84/85    85/86    96/87    87/8   889/89  Total          94/85    85/86    86/97    87/88   88/89  Total
u    z mm:. ..333m   mm2842 ... :3333 a..: :     _ m.r              :  ::33 3:33333. mamma 5 3s            33S3333  3333333. 33333333 333333 33333 *33333333
A, DISTRICT
1. HOUSING
SIS / MO / ADAO          NO      20    50      50    19     -    139    72   1.440,0  34600,0  3,600.0  14368,0        -  10.008,0   1,645.5  4,417.7  4,730,2  1.925,1       -  12071895
Sub-Total HOUSING                                                                I.440,0  3,600.0  3,600,0  1368.0          10.0090   1,645,5  4i417,7  40730,2  1.925,1        -  12,71895
2, OFFICE                   NO       -     5       5     5     -      15   176         -    980,0    880.0    880,0           2,640,0         -  1079,9  1,156.3  1,238,4           3,474,5
Sub-Total DISTRICT                                                                  1;440,0  ;4;80;0  4;;80,0  2,248,0       -  1264940  I,645.5  5,497,6  5,986,5  3,163,5         -  16193.0
Is FIELD
It HOSING
AEC HOUSE                NO      44   100    100    74      -    319    38   1.672,0  3,900,0  3,900.0  2.812,0        -  12,084,0   1.910,6  4W6l.  4,993.0  3,957,2         -  25,523,9
VAV HWSE                NO      300   800  1.000   900      -  3.000    25   7.500,0 20,000.0 25,000,0 22.500,0           75,000.0  86570.1 24.542,9 32.649,9 31,662.9           97,62407
Sub-Total HOUSING                                                                90,72,0 23,900.0 289.00,0 25.312,0       -  87084.0  10.4907 29,205,9 37,641,9 35,620,1         - 123,149,6
2, GARAGE
ADA                      No      15    25      22     *     -     62    10      150,0    250.0    220.0         -      -     620,0     171,4    306,9   289,1          -      -     767.3
Sub-Total GARAGE                                                                   150,0    250,0    220,0         -      -     620.0     171.4    306.9    289,1         -      -     767.3
Sub-Total FIELD                                                                     9.322.0 24,050.0 29,020.0 25,312.0       -  87,704.0  10,652,1 29,51227 38,131.0 35,620,1    -113.915.9
C. TRAINING HALL  /a                    5      5      3     -      -     13   300   1.500,0  1.500,0    900,0          -     -   3.900,0   1,714,0  2,840,7  2,192,6          -     -   49737.3
Total                                                                                  l22262,0 30.030,0 34,400.0 27.60.0        -104,252.0  14,011.6 36,951.0 45,200,2 38,783.6        - 134P,46,2
------------------------------ *- -| .......................aa:ss-* aa$- t-=sSzw gs s*--:-: 
/a AT ADAPTIVE RESEARCH STATIONS
August 14, 1964 12110
.U,1



- 61 -
ANNII 5
Table 50R
nTMI. zax.L wM BEQIc
rdbl 504. VnDS II E3PAIIT - ORJ5i
lltsilad Cost TAU
@ljt ~  ~    (3  '.0_
butitw                                          am comot                             Totals ldWueeal Cm srlsMWWbo
out
lbat mtm   mm3  3WV0  WAR3  NMl  Total  Cost  N4M3  35/3   NW/3   VIM3 3                 TtaLl    MM/    MU3     KW/3   37/3    NM   Tota
CAR                           R        -      2     -      - -  2  --   2IO           -  200.0       -       -         -          20.  -201.3      -       -      -   22.
4 3                           10       2      -     -      -      -     2  100   2X.          -      -      -       -   200.0   2068        -      -       -      -   206
ub-Tsiam                                                                             2e0.0  200.0       -      -       -   400.0   21.   ma           -       -      - 342.1
2. ISUICT
4 3                           no       6      6    IS      a     6    36  100   4.0  6a0   I.o.   000.0  600.0 3,60.0   620.4  "4.0 I.tliUJ 132.0  821.1 4.315.8
si-Total ISTIcr                                                                      600.   40.0 1000.0  30.   600.0 3,60.0   42.4   W           I4.ctu.3 12.0  12.l 4.315.8
3. FILD
IOW1TME.  / WOS               no       50   100   lo0    50       -   310   12   600.0 1l20.0 1.200..  600.0        - 3.410.0      O.-4 13-3.S 1.426.0  766.5     - 4160.9
3IC S                        no      250   250   250      -     -   750  0.5   12s     1          10 I20.0  -      -   375.0   J2t.   oe.3  14.5          -      -   416.1
-ToW FiMJ                                                                            73.0 2,32s.0 1425m.   6o.0        - 3-n5.e   74.714.4 1.574.6  766.5            - 4.2-7.1
Su,-Total 400015 /a                                                                   1.5200 2,175.0 2,325.0 1.400.0   M.  7.7.0 1.576. 2,301.1 2.742.9 1,733.5  321.1 9.31.0
1.  IPE0I
1. WEMTEK lb
l1RDm 1    3 PJ4MTIP          UT        I     -      -     -      -     I   15      .o       -       -      -       -   135.0   154.1       -      -       -      -   154.
Sia-ToW t IMUIS lb                                                                   135.0      -       -      -       -     s.o   154.1       -      -      -       -    54.1
2. A
5ET       4     4      4     -      -    12   55   220.0  2Z0.0  220.0         -      -   "aee   21.1  26.4  2337           -      -   30.2
DIP      EX1ST1  MM          SET        I     I      1     1      1     560 e        0.0   0.0      .0    0.0  60.0  300c0        0.5   73.5   73.7   3.4    0.3   395.2
FIWII                        sT         1     1      1     -      -     3   20    20.0    20.0   20.0        -      -    6.0    22.  24.5  26.2            -      -    73.6
a-TOdW                                                                               300.0  300.0  30.0   600    0.0 1e.0.    342.4  367.4  33.7    4.4   90.1  1.273.
3. ISr= I/e                     SET       2      2     2      -     -      6   30    60.0o   e.0o     .        -       -3 i.0         .5   73.5   78.7       -       -  200.7
4. FtTU /d
go KIT                       UET   1.50 1.510 1s50t  1,51*  1500 7.50    .z2   375.0  375.0  375.0  3750   315.0 I375.0   423.0  4N5.3  492.1  527.5  563.1 2.470.0
11930L 136 _fI9101I         ST        5      5    1s      -      -    20   20   100.0  100.0  20.          -       -   400.0   114.1  122.5  262.5        -      -   499.s
ia-TOW  FIE  /d                                                                      475.0  470  575.0  3M5.   375.0 2275.0   5.   531.7  754.5  3W.5  563.1 2N9.0
iSa-Totl 11NE01                                                                          90 .m  o 5.0  9s.0  435.0  435.0 3610.0  1,107.1 1,022.  107.0  631.9         2  4,621.
TOW                                                                                       2,4.0 2t4OA 3,260.0 IW.0 1.5.0 11.55.0 2,401.0 3,374.4 39W.9 2.0.4 1.474.2 MIMI2.
/a 4t IE7L          Mu  NEPRT TN. 10M1  F1      D  TO  71EIEIP P0ECT
lb 4 TlIfl9A        f WOK .XIEI ULUATOR  FO         lt
/c 6 T TM   FAUIITIM       E
/d SIT  ffADIS DIT 1100110. U15. IIF7M  0.15G . ETr.
*A" 14. In4 12:11



_62 -
ANNEX 5
NATIUML AIW RICIITIEM EXTEKIEI  r                                          TabLe 505
Table 505. INCEIEL IITIIII MOSTS - ORISSA
DMailed Cost Table
(Re '000I
Ouantitv                                     km Costs
unit
Urdt 84/U5 5/6 MM/ 817/ll MM39 Total  Cost  84U5 15/16 W5 7 M         7/    SM      Total
A. VENICLE WRTION /a                                         N-                             -     -             -      -       -      -      -        -
P. FICE OPERATIN
1. MISIRIL7                                               NO      30   60   60    0   410   270   10   300.0  100.0  600.0   00.0  600.0 2,700.0
2. E    /1 No                                                      6   13   13   13   13    55   12    72.0 15.0  156.0  L16.0  15.0   6%.0
3. FIEU                                                   Rs       -    -    -    -    -       -          320.0  640.0  60.0  640.0  64.0 2d1e.0
Sub-Totl WILl OERAn                                                                                         692.0 1v3%.0 1.396.0 1.3S6. 1,3%.0 6,276.0
C. FIELD TRIM      /NO    U6S  865  U5  li5  865 49325  0.5   432.5  432.5  432.5  432.5  432.5 2,162.5
D. TRAVE M.OUIE  Id
1. SIS / D0Sr.                                            No      40   00   9    96  96   406    3   120.0  240.0  21810          .0  210.0  1,224.0
2. UE UNIT
JS. DIRER mRIC.                                         NO      1    1    1    1    1        5  3.5     3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    17.5
AMlC. ECIIST * ORK  SOCI IST 1ID STATISTICIM            No      3    3    3    3    3    15  2.5        7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    37.5
FIEID SURVISOR                                         NO      13   13   13   13   13    65  2.5    32.5   32.5   32.5 232.532.5   162.5
FIEIIDESTGAT                                           No      46  46  46   46   46   230  1.6    73.6   73.6   73.6   73.6   73.    368.0
STATISTICAL  aEK                                       No      19   18   18   18   18    *0  1.6    20.8   23.9   28   29.8  2N.8   144.0
Sub-Total IUE UeIIT                                                                                      145.9  145.9  145.9  145.9  145.9   72F.5
3. DOTOECTLE MLUIINE                                      N- -                                           60.0  180.0  300.0  300.0  300.0  1w140.0
Sub-Total TAL MiM        /d                                                                                 3.   565.9  733.   733.9 m.9  3 .5
E. SAIl EX1E16WII SiMPPOR                                            -    -    -    -      -      -          70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0   35e0
Total                                                                                                         1,520.4 2,4J4.4 2.632.4 2.,32.4 2,132.4 11,382.0
1a  NO VIlE   FEIUTDG COST ENE ALL AM FOR M EHICLES
/b I R510.OO0 PER  M AMRIC. DISTRICT. 5O    7 ST yE
Ic I R512.000 PER EAIE, Fot PRINTINs DIARIES5 CiTS ETC, 5U 1ST yR
Id I YEWLT FUINNCIM  UNITS PIESRI  By STATE SOVEIET
Awust 14. 1914 12:12



-63-
mu                                                                              Table 50
Table 506. 1862118 13    - mop10
btItttf CodtTable
but
lamt        MU ,  34/3 WM/3MM Tsui  Cost  MM/3   ISM3   KM/3   WM/    WM3  Total    KM/    am/3    KW/3   am3   am3  rTow
A. rwr OF TLMIx /a
1oW1. m                              1DM1    320  36   320  324  327  2.600  0.3    96.0   96.0   96.    96.    6.0   40.0    99.0  107.3  2134.   22.9  131.31  957
P1MITAT1OP COP                        so    42 92 9292492  4610.3   V2.6V7.274 27.627V13MO  23.730.933L.035.337.6165.5
-EWf1LMY oDSS   E so  I6A                     31'  314  324  314  314 I.570  1.3   460.2  401.2  460.2  460.2  411.2 2,001.0   424.5  456.3  4311.2  322A   X6.3 2.447.?
RuI1.o      cc                        JIM1    t60  940  960  96   30 4.10  0.S   40.4  40.0  420.0  40.0  40.0 2,400.0   40.2  5316.5  574.1  614.3  654.1 2.W3.2
9!rIM. cos                            MG0     U 134 ISO  13413   134   1M   0.5           . 92.0 MO      .4 2.0   92. 0 "    440.9    95.?  IOU   210.4  117.7  IZ.A   31.J
i'1mo 1861014                         an       15   30   30   30   15   120    6    90.0  130.   110.   1111.0   90.01  720.4    42.6  231.2  215.   23.4  127.    33.
ITS? TMD                              DWI1  130  13N  23   130  130   4    0.4          2.0   52.0   52.0   23.0  52.0   240.         54.1   3.1    62.2   66.    70.9   322.
s.a'-Vtd1 VDIWE IIC. 13G*                                                               1.24.3 1.A5J 1.3635J1-3.3 3.2245J 6,410.A  1.2954IA 1,432 .57. 1.7w9.51.t0.7  WI7.9?
s-
50WTION DEDsS                          o)    36 363676 3613O0.3   10.410.0 10.4 16.420.4  54A0  11.22.112.923.4 14.7  64.4
117Ka ca                              [OM13    US  365  3US  3U5  315 4.375  0.2   173.   173.0  173.0  173.0  273.0    MA5.    179.9  293.4  26.9  Z1.4  233.   IVU7A
9f11* a1%                             60       36  136  136  136  136   630       I   134.   136.   136.6  136.   136.0   660.    141.4  IN2.   262.7  174.0    .3Z  1425
41W  18611140s                       1601      40    4    40  40   40   300  0.0    41.0   43.3   41.4        4 4    43. AL#   6.0    49.?   53.    5.A    6.4   65.4   WA3
O sr                                  136      40   90N U    3    40   3270    4   160.   204   3273.4 204   163.  1.311.0   166.4   27.7  IM7   49.5  210.  12411.4
DMl      10  2020  201 It            s      5    50.02IO.II03.010MA    50.4  A40.4    52.011i1. 19.6220.0LI3.1.3.
13Im TOPS1D    25   25   21   2    21   125    1    21.0   21.0   214    21.0   25.0   121.0    26.0   71.    29.9  327.    34.1   149.9
l.a-Total 493. 1311. PV                                                                    02011.   323            .   601 k44.    616.   9113.5  972. 1,04.2  10.3  4,W369
3. aairr M4111 PIETaI
oplI ATI cu                           as       131 313        13 213       is    1    13.413.013.013.413.                     1.4    13.5   24.5   25.    16.    17.7    73.
23.1M 1OSO                           la     156  156  256  156  156   73        1   16.   156.6.0  .0  256.   256.    130.    162.   14.4  I86.   29VP6  212.6    MA
UPEIIIU  33is                         60       22   12   12   12   22    40    3    36.0   3..0  30            6 3   36.    13.       31.4V  43.2 43 4      4 6.1   49.I 21L.
gmU TOW                               NO0    16   16   16   16   16         0    2      27.0   27.    31.0   32.0   324    260.0    32.3   3.3   IL.3   41.4   41.6   192.9
Su-Ts.a1  MEVr 34113 PICIS                                                                217.0  27.0  Z70 7.0  237.0         1.12.4.0   246.5  26t.9  36.5   363   7Z.0  1..1
4. 1  Or93  U ~IS  N o I goI
o1EJTiTIPmm I to - EW1)               60       13   13   13   23   U3    65    1    13.    23.0   13.4   110    13.0    65.0    13.    14.5   15.    16.    17.7    23.
rAVAOM  CWJISE              60        2    2    2    2    2    10    2         4.     44.4 4.0    4.0               20.0  4   .29A 4  4.5    4.8    5.1    5.5    26.0
Wax ItWM                              60        3    3    3    3    3    1521.5          4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    22.5       4.7    50    5.4    5.4    6.1        VA.
row TMU                               131       5    5    5    5    5    21    2    10.010.40 4IA10.0   10.0    M0.                   10.4   11.2   124    122.32.          8.0
5.0-Toal Mfl MT=3  4          gm  ~I                                                      31.5   31.5   31.5   131.51U.5    57.5    27.8   30.2   V.7.   43.3   ALI   133.
1915192.  0312330:D  I &A   JIM0
52I11T*T  slW/ I ,5Wse                60    5  5   5  5  5  21  2   1604100.0.0LO10.424 50 10                                             .411.222DA.422VA     0136   6-0.
Sam  camm                    la6      -    I    -    I    -        223.5         -    1.5       -    1.5      -      3.4       -    1.?       -    1.9       -     3.6
s-.1W W1.                   IQIV11    2    2    2    2    2    20    4         3.0    3.0   3LO    3.0    U.    40.0         3.3    L.9    9.614.213.9             4164
S.b-T?..A1 UEPI  35922.FTI3   ( AN   A 10                                                  1.4   19.5   18.    1.5   13.          3.0    13.7   214   21.5   21.4   24.    111.5
s.a--'eta1 IlpE or 61111   /a                                                              2.12.1 2.04.0.20.6 2          .2 2UA 2.11  11.M1.3 2.219.52.M2.6 2.912.53.13.2,9.W4 221.304
2.133.I 2.464 2.46.1 2.46. 2,130I 212573.5 2.220.5 272.6292.5. 3,2131.3 2A.939  134335
/   IEDO' Ulu,1 9K116 EM      I1C..i  186116 gm *"MO?[1 01  1SU".



NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
OWu SubProect
Proposed Oigonizatlon of Agdcutural Ewdenan
MhW-dAwL%^m
&t
AodP 1kuosk
& Wild De.u9dto
Dra dc D                'AdWcn l
-ID*ctado,~~~~~~FwPmctc                                                 PQ%6   aFoc 1 f3 U
*E S J_n Dkco d Agd 65                                                                                        ."a                     I
* Fasns                                                                         MAC A.tb .ft _A I1_
.9c1l ecfs                                         4    hkdt                           36B  al            W   s
a E ironoo                                         Plant Prdection  92
-Doputy Dhsodr d OArlcutg                              SON Mwpmnl       is   _d               Oma=
* Flonl Fhocdbn 
a Extwlon78                                                                                                                 9
* Fbon.._                                                                                                                      .
* Cottonll
0s Ag r&                                                                                           1            .&   I
* SId                                                                                                  ram R Ic
Chbt Stobtlstk                                                                                             4 
dA  Bc*-25967



_65-
ANNEX 6
Table 600
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Hadhya Pradesh: Yield and Production of Major Crops
in the Project Area (Credit 712-IN)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
A. Annual Averate ---                  ------ -kg/ha ---- --
Yield
Wheat           841       1052      1074       796     1505      1152      1243
Jowar           742        737       722       475      778       815       723
Paddy           744       1059       831       353     1033       926       725
maize           895        799       922       663     1005      1089      1143
Gram            595        566       615       604      623       748       695
Production                         ----   '000 tons                         --
Wheat           969       1316      1410       899     1697      1280      1583
Jowar           438        451       421       310      543       563       453
Paddy           808       1180       940      396      1153      1014       821
Maize           179        1'        196       150      239       280       286
Gram            445        382       428       531      432       565       569
B. Four Year Rolling Averages 1/
Yield            ----        -       ---- Index --           
Wheat                                          100      116       119       125
Jowar                                         100       102       106       106
Paddy                                          100      110       105       103
Maize                                          100      104       113       120
Gram                                           100      101       109       112
Production
Wheat                                          100      116       115       119
Jowar                                          100      106       113       115
Paddy                                          100      110       105       102
Maize                                          100      109       125       138
Gram                                           100       99       110       117
AJ Index to 100 for period 1976/77 through 1978/79.
Yield Index weighted according to area planted.
Source: Directorate of Agriculture, Bhopal
1976/77 - 1981/82 Final figures from Land Records
Department statistics.
1982/83   Final forecasts only.



- 66-
ANNEX 6
Table 601
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Madhva Pradesh: Yield Indices of Major Crops /A
1976/77-      1980/81-       Interval
1978/79       1982-83        Increment
Project Area /b
Wheat                      100             134             34
Jowar                      100             106              6
Paddy                      100             103              3
Maize                      100             124             24
Gram                       100             118             18
Other Areas /c
Wheat                       85              91              6
Jowar                       94              93             -1
Paddy                       88              90              2
Maize                      108             104             -4
Gram                        85             103             18
La Three year weighted averages indexed to base year (=100).
lb Weighted averages for 15 project districts of Credit 712-IN.
/c All other districts treated similarly.
Source: Directorate of Agriculture, Bhopal: op.cit.



INDIA
NHAIINAL ARICLLTURAL EXTENSION PMOLCT
Table 602, IICREKNIIL STAiF COSTS - MIIA PRAESH
D.toieId Cost table
(Rs '0001
Quinitiy                                          lose Costs                              Totalh  Includini ContuqXcnin
it   ---------------------------- -------------------
Unit  4/e85 85/73 E6/37 S17/BB  /999 total  Cost  84UJ5   B5/86   96/87   8)7/S   88/SS   Total        84/85   85/86   86/87   B7UN1   86/8?   Total
..as  gsess RaganX2  $" l      $sE  lSll as  81.   oa   mssl  mangaXg ltt$| lsanxxz   *mslsitX lst azza2xo 280492 st   "|s Et  *"zi au l 4.2s sswzxzz *gZ88sx maza2xx
A. STAfF SALMIES
1. TEADOLATERS
... .......
SIl OLSlEEDS (I4II2V)           No        3     6     6     6     6     27    24      n2,0  144.0   t44,0  144.0  144,        640,0      74.9  161.0   172.2   184.3   196.2   7M8,6
lITRARIAN                       NO        I     I     I     I     1      5    10      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    50.0    10.4    11.2   12.0    12,8    13.6    60,0
AIIIN1ml                        No        2     2     2     2     2     10     7      14,0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    70.0    14.6   15.6   16.7    17.9   19.1           83.9
Sub-Total NEACIUTERS                                                                     96,0   16,0   168,0   168.0  168.0    761.0       99n8   IB7.   200.9  215.0  229B9    932.5
2. PISTRICT
AN  ( SIS INO                             8        6    16 l I   16     72    20    16040   320,0  320.0   320.0  320.0  140.90   166,4   357.7  382,7   409.5  436U.   1,752.4               a'
Sub-lotll BISTRIC                                                                       160,0   320.0   320,0  320,0  320,0  1,440.0    16.   3577   382.7  409.5   4361,  I.752,4
3. FIELD
APrO                            NO       23    47    47    47    47    212    13    299.0   61t20   611,0  611.0   611,0  2,743,0    311.0  6t3,0  730,8   751,9  832.6   3,339.3
RAEO                            NO      140   293   293   203   293  1272    10  12400.0 2,830.0 2,830.0 2.830,0 28300,0 2        ,70  1W456,0 3163,4 3,384,8 3622,7 391,856.  156482M 5
Sub-Total FiELP                                                                      16990 3,44140 3.441.0 3441.0 3M441,0 15,463,0 1767,0 3.346.3  1I5.6 4,403,7 4,619.,2 18421.9
4. SAIl EXTENSION SIffRT
.......  ..     . ...
COIVIMICAT1ON SECIALIST         No        I     I     I     I     1      5    25      25.0    25,0   25.0    25,0   25.0    122,0    2E,6   30.7    32,9   35,2   37,5   164.9
MHICNIE OPERATOR                NO        I     I     1        I  I      5    13      10    I20    13.0    t3.0    13*0    6SO           14.    16.0    17.1    13.3   19.5    85,7
AIJB1O YISLIL 0FERAOTR          NO        I     I     I     I     1      5    9        goo0    9.0     B,0   B90       80      40.0       9.2     9.0    10.5    11.3   12.0    52.3
Sub-Total SAO EXTENSION SIPPORT                                                           6.0    46,0   46,0    46.0   46.0    230,0    52,6    56.6    60,5   64.8    69.O    303.4
Sub-lotal SIAFT SALARIES                                                                 2M001,0 3.975,0 3&775.0 3975.0 3,975.0 27,901.0  2M0G5M, 4448,4 4,M759,  5*093,0 5t43.2 21.310,1
Total                                                                                        M00M.0 3.975,0 3,975.0 34975,0 3,975.0 17,901.0  2M0O5.8 4,440,4 4,759,6 5,093,015,423.  2;161.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ......... s... ".... ".... ". .................... . 
Audust 14, 1914 11152
II1
i'@



INIA
IMTWMlL ARICALTURAL EXTENSION PROECT
Table 603, CIVIL MOIS - IUWIYA  MA8ESII
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
0uantits                                      BSne Costs                           Totals Includird ContiMenein
Uhit 84/a5 95/B6 96/87 87/88 98/89 Total Cost 84/85  95/86  86/87   87/88   M8/89  Total   84/85 85/86   06/87   87/98   O/M   Total
=:-:  Z     8UZZ ZMazS 23SZ 5ZS3  ain:2 urn. az.S 5--S   *aaaaXu  =      5z=   'A--      55-5az z 5 ----5 *gaa=  Sax max==  =z5Ims
A. FIELD
1.
1. HOUSING
RAED / VEIV         NO       -  100  300  300  100  800   60         - 6,000.0 189000.0 19,000.0 64000.0 48,00.0    - 7p362,8 234651,2 25,330.3 9V001.6 65,346.0
ADO / AEO           NO       -   50   60   68    -  178   60         - 34000.0 3.600,0 4,080.0       - 10,680,0     - 3&681.4  4,730.2 5,741.5       - 14,153.2     ,
Sub-Total HOUSING                                                       - 9,000.0 21,600.0 224060,0 6,000.0 58,660.0   - 11,044.3 29,381.4 31,071.9 9,001.6 79,499.2
Sub-Total FIELD                                                            - 9400040 21,600.0 22,000.0 64000.0 58P680.0   - 11044.3 28,381.4 31.07149 9.001.6 79,499.2
P. DIVISIONAL
PRESS BUILDING         No       -    3    4    4    -   11   95         -  295.0   380.0   380.0        - 1,45.0       -   349.7   49.3   534.8         - 1.393.0
Sub-Tota1 DIVISIONAL                                                       -  285,0   380,0   380.0        - 11045.0      -   349.7  4".3   534,8          - 1,383,8
Total                                                                          - 9,285.0 21,990.0 22o4600 6,000.0 59,725.0    - 11394.0 289B90.7 31,6066 94001.6 90,983.0
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~SS55--s-Z---'= -----------_Z---------------------
August 14, 1994 11:52
La



-69 -
M1JNU 6
Table 6GA
Tabl 64. 16M0.9  E711       IT - 1W1 PUDI
tloId OaWt Tabl
41. Ifni
butw                                        kw Cast                            Totls Xa1l.daM omtlinties
htAt
but mma /NM l *S NM  Totl  Cast  WE   w07  km                          /   NM   Tsau        MM   IsM       iM   VAU  Ki   Toal
4. 101S5
1. A        t
M.s1 1  W                        K       -    I    -    -    -       I  130        -   D.e        -      -    -   20.0         -  276.7       -      -    -   26.7
4     16     L        I                  3 s                         3  Joe   3.           -      -      - J       300.0   300.2       -             -    -   310.2
s-Total W30o.0 250.0                                                                                 -      -    -       .0   310.2  276.7      -       -    -   S.1
2. ISTRIsc
4        i                      so       5    5    7    -    -    17   Ut   430.0 43.          2.0          -    1.42.0   444.6  475.1 71.4          -    -1620.
5*1-Toa ISLRICT                                                                   430.   430.0  02.0        -    - WI  2.*   444.6  475.   7s.4         -    - 7,JI.M
3. ImuU
400 /a                                                   I I  * I   -    33   N  M. .     .0   16.0  774.0    - 2.131.    711.4  761.4  817.6  91.1    - 3.279.2
5*-Toa 151IM                                                                       MU0   MA.  416111.0  774.0    - 2.11.0   711.4  761.4  317.- - 9.         - 3,279.2
4. nao
KIWOLfS 1136                     U     100  200  2e0  2J0    -   700    I   600.0 I.000 IP000 10               - 5,U0O.0   W2.210710.71I501.32,044.0    - &532
DESI                             K   Z       400  400  400  40e 2.00M  0.5   200.0  2o0.0  230.0  200.0  ..3 1e0.0   266.8  223.3  237.7  m.52.7 1,95.0
I.*-Tot  r110                                                                   1A00.0 1,100.0 1#110. l.SIO.0 260.0 &00.0  IMA4.0 19"2.1 213.0 2,219.5 273.7  7,730.e
$*-Total    IO                                   2U.4 3.0                                    A.4  3M.0eA           200.0 11O450.I 2,501.2 3950 3.I 3 .0 a211.2.2 2n.7  1240.2
3. EFEJI
LMr FIT   T                     ST       I    -    -    -    -       1   20    20.        -       -      -    -    20.0    22.0       -       -      -    -    22.8
Hiommpt                         U5E7T    I    -    -    -    -       t  20    216.0       -       -      -    -   210.0   22.3        -       -      -    -   221.3
0RW _NTIN1C  P T                SET      1    -    -    -    -       1   24    24.0       -       -      -    -    24.      V.4       -       -      -    -    27.4
a IBCAIE I                      Kr       I    -    -    -    -       I   a       0.0      -       -      -    -    40.0    U0.5       -       -      -    -    U.s
5*-Toa  iiIN                                                                      304.0      -      -       -    -   304.0   W.0         -      -       -    -   34A
2. IVnIS
P11   M       n1               5ET       -    3    4    4    -    11   24          -   72.0   9.0   %A        -   2N44         -        U.2  12.0    5.0    -   34.2
5,*-To                                                                                -   72.0   9.0   %6.0    -   264.0          -   U.2   2.0 1A           -   39.2
3. Ipl=C
WT  Fk W                        SU7      I    I    -    -    -    16    3    24.0   24.           -      -    -    4.0    27.4   29.4         -      -    -    56
*Tdt  IBIC                                                                         24.0   24.0      -       -    -    4.0   2D.4   29.4          -      -    -    56.
4. FMI
in  / &M                        ?T    23    24    -    -    -    47  1.5    34.5   36.0           -      -    -    70.5    39.4   44.1        -      -    -      5.
WI /                              Yu   140  143    -    -    -   2         3.  140.0 U 5.0        -      -         21.    1.   15.3-   334.
So-TOL&I 18                                                                       174.5  171.0      -       -    - 8     3.5   1".2  29.2        -      -    -   418.4
S. SW
irn1M                           UT       I    -    -    -    -       1  40    400.0       -       -      -    -    0.0   457.6        -       -      -    -   457.6
5*-To    9tl                                                                      400.0      -       -      -    -   40.0   4574         -       -      -    -   457.J
5*-Total   wT                                                                        902.5  275.0   96.O   %.0    - 1,369.5  1,031.1   36.1  126.0  1:.0    - 1.2-0
TOl                                                                                    3.320.51 3.6c. 31,136. 2.60.0 290.0 12.19.5 3,31.4 3I.1A 3.7".0 3430.3 27_.7 14.U*.1
/a      C         00711M. ROM    O   D      M    J. 722-1m
_t 14, 11  Ut 53



_70 -
*iln.  zISMI  OMEl mgce                                                                    Table 605
Tel. 6I. IIii     WMTII    0M1   - WUVI 013
bbili. Emt T111
th '0001
,tlitw                                        kw. Co                               Trals Irelq*M  CEurdtlit
~~~~~~~Ihit-
Oitt 041155 " KM  3M                Tol  Ct  KM5            6      7 KM V1   33   Tot          MM5   M           7 WV VN   WIN   Total
6, BI.LE PEhTIW
mS                                    No     16   29    44            53   195   12   192.0 *54S.      SA    626-1.  63.0 2*,4        199.2  W.5  u9.9  3U.1  31.2 2.M.1
msIIVIOIiL                            1 5     -    I      I      I     1     4  40         -    0.0  40.0  4.    40.0          U40.      -   44.5   47.7   51.2   14.6   1I0
S9-Toal IOCL.E IITIIII                                                                    192.0    1.0  510.0   2&.   676.0 2WI.  19.2  43.0  67.    U4.5  9T.1 3,46.1
1. OFF=E WTIPI /a
1. fMu lb
to/lED                             10    140  213  23   23         M   1.272 0.15    21.0   4.5   42.5   42.5   42.5   190.         21.1   47.5   50.    54.3   517J   22.2
4  / 10                            I       23   47    47    47    4    211  0.2        4.6    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    42.2       4.    10.5   11.2   12.0   124    52.4
S*-T*4l FIEU lb                                                                         2L.    5.9   51.9   51.9   5.9   2.            2.    3.0    60   66.4         .7  23.
2. SMV311                             a0     53   S3    3       53    S3   26U     2   106.0   0.0  1U6.   106.0  106.0   D. 0    110.2  118.5  12.   U5.7  144.5   43.6
3. nsRicT                             OM     16   16    16    36    16    U        5    30.0   3.0    0.    30.0   30.    400.0    3.2   9.4    95.7   12.4  10.0   479.7
1.  ms1E
IIIMISTWTISU                      1        I    a     I      I     I      5   I0    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    0.1    S.0    10.4   11.2   12.0   12.3   12.6    4.0
PKII1                              No      I    I      I      I     1      55         5 0.05 0.05 0.05   .05    .0   2%0            32.0  5t 9 9.8    4.0   U.1   2"
31V11     "M                       15      -    I      7    11    It    32   21         -    0.0  140.0  223.0  2230    640A          -      .l   17.4    .5  2994   ma3.
9t-Total OEI     IUM                                                                    40.0  120.0  210o.0  23.0  MA0       9.0    62.4  12J   23.2    ;.J3   M1.6   173.4
Su-TotiaFFIC   WITIP 1                                                                    271U6  357.9  4.9  517.9  517.9   2U .5   40.0  5.7   627   05.7 25746
C. FMU lUl                                     730  73  1.755 1.755 1.75  6h5  0.5    90..0  290.3  V71. 5 7.5  V7.5 32422.5   4.6  435.9 149.5 1,122O0 21v I 4209.9
3. 133  0.     U.LL   / I1CM.  M-Et.
e3                                   1me     14   22    2       22    22   102  4.      64.4  101.2  101.2  101.2  101.2   46.2         .0  1I.   2214  129.n  1U7.9   540.
on  I #A                             1m      23   47    47    47    47   212    3        9.0  141.0  141.   141.0  241.0              nJ0 71.3   57.   I.   1.4  192.1   771.6
VW I on3                              15    140  M3   20    13  23  1.27Z  2.   3292.0  79.4  7.4   92.4  792.4  M.5A.   407.7   57   47.7101.11419.0  4.3m.
Lum1                                  11      1    1      1      2     2     5    2      2.0    2.0    24      2.0    2.0    10.0      2.2    2.2    2.4    2.6    2.7       24A
-TOtI TAl       3 M1111E I QEI   * llC.                                                   5W7.41.32 6-6136.61,066 I14A  h4UIJ    5ILS .1.1.7 1.2I.O 1.266 124A  5462
E.: SW1 EUD6I Kf                                                                           50.0   500   50.0   SOA    54.0   253.0    57.2   61.5         3   70.4   75.0   32t9
Total                                                                                       l.421.0 2W2=2  29.0 2.1D.0 J213.0 U1      -3  1.49    2,43-1 236.4 447.2 4h11.1 25496.6
/a  IIII VIS    1 OM=  MM  FOR IE lIt 2 M.  E             or B . 1UFU-
lb  klUO 5  211 PWIa  Fat OM  fUIII. Kw. I  IS1               01 FA   f     3M     a 2k.
&nu  14. 193  II.



-71-
ANNE 6
?NU21                                                                       Table 606
lam du. imi.im uS - mmii PEc
"Isd last T"b
(k low)
eluAmIg                                      kw Mit                              Tdals Imelvnd1  CmIntwie
bit
(b u     5    6KM7 VD              1KM 1   Eint  Mu    WU           7 a 7mUM     Mr  Totl      MO   MM   KM   PAN   MM1  I.I
T*. nE cr ro140C 14
...... .... .   . --                                                             ----
1. VILLLG file. EU   I RIUE  I
P"2u ON3 cte                             IN03W    340  143     -     -      -   2D   0.3    42.0   42.9       -       -      -   ea    43.7   4.0          -      -       -    n.
OIENTATIO CUtS  lb                                 -    -    4o    40    40  u22   o.z          -      -   12.0   12.0   12.0   36.0         -      -   24.4   15.4    U.4    4.1
r IEllmitI E t   I  / LE I Am                     145  145   43    45    43  2.644  2.3  21.5  213.5 S5.4  595.4  59.4 2-.13.2   1A   210.7  72.1  762.0  311.4 2692.
WRE90 s)COss                             11W   seo  W500      0 150  1.00 SP5UD  0.5   250.0  210.0  750.0  7s5.0   50.0 2.75.0   243.0  29.15  on7.0   5.3A   .1  341.4
SPECIAL CORSE b/                          a       3    3    in    to0   lop   360  0.5    15.0   15.0  s9.0   50.0   50.0  1.0    15.6   16.3  59.3   64.0   60.    224.3
PF0TIIII                                 10311     -   15    30    30    15    go    4          -   60.0  120.0  120.0    0.0  360.          -   67.1  143.5  29.    VI.    445.9
STUDY TMNS Ic                             103W    230  230   230   20   230 1.135   0.4    92.0   92.0    2.0   Q2.0   92.0  460.         15.7  1Va   110.0  117.7  1.4  351.7
S&-Total VI9LLUE EXT.  O    I AM                                                               507.5  M0.4 1619.4 3I69  IU.4  t.4            1 631.0IJ   724J 1v9.9 2025 2t25.1  7470.2
AI2M  Tu. l           4( A3
ORIENtTA1TO CIUMS bl                      No       -    -      0    20    30    30    1                    1UA    30.0   10.0   3.0          -      -   12.0   ua.    U.    3A
MtEREHE CIUSS  /                         I1I19  130  130   4De   400   4 o 1.460 0.15    19.5   19.5   60.0   60.   I0.0  229.0    20.3   21.3   72.3   76.1   31             272.4
9ElhL WMUEh                              1ND       12   12    36    36    36   112    1    12.0  12.0   36.0   36.0    A0  132.0    12.5   13.4   411   46.1   49.1   164.1
PR",ION                                   No       5   is    30      5      -    30    6    3.0   0.0  6.0    3. 0           - 10.0       3.2   0.3  7.1   .4             -   21L4
Sl* TOURS                                 N2V     s 50s50    50    50    50  250        1    50.0 5D.0  50.05 0.0  5.            250.0    52.0   55.95 J   64.0A0  . 2 J
SqabIo1l a IC. E11. mME    M31                                                                111.5  141.5  216. A        t0 I0S6.0  012.0   1.   352  213.   21.0  212.6   11I
1. SIUIMC  OTTII SPEClELIST
PIENTATIP CDMSt                           a6       4    4    20   1O    10    is    1         4.0    4.0    0.0   10.0    0.0   3Lo        4.2    4.5   12.    122    33.      47.O
.31T1! h     5 s d /D                             212  292 m m 52   552   m5  2040          192.0  192.0  552.0  352.0  M2. 2.040.0 11    9.7  214.6  160.2  716.4  7.2 2.m.2
9CIEA C&CSE                               No       4    4      4     4      4    20    3    22.0   22.0   12.A   122.0    2.0   40.0    12.5    d       14H4   15.4   16       72.
.,1 OA                                    1i61     -    5    10    10       5    M  1           -   40.0  1.03.0 40.               240.0     -   44.7      7 102.4   54.5   27.3
STSv TrIS                                2I03N    30   30    30    30    30   t50    2        0.0   60.0  .0         .0   MA    3.0    62.4    7.1   72.3   76.1   0J    303P.
Su-1srI ROW  PAITTER SPECILIST                                                                 2.   313.0  714.0  714.0 e           Z4.02AA.   273.7  344.3  04.0  113.11  91Ls3.3.31.2
4. FLELl OFFCES
lIOfaTIPN CQUE                            No       3    3      3     3      3    is    2       .     6.0    60    6.0    6.0   N0          6.2    6.7    7.2    7.7    3.2    360
NKENT cSE                                 a3       I    I      I      I     I     5    2      2.0    2.3    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.0       2.1    2.2    2.4    2u    2.7    12.
SP-NcetlEsE                               la       6    a      6     6      6    A   3.5      9.0    9.0    9.0    9       9.0   4.0       9.4   20.1   1.0  112.   U2.3    54A
sTt3' l4mf                               2031      5    5      5     5      5    2z     1     5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   21.0       5.2    5.6    6.0    6.4    6.0    30.
Sub-Total FI Fi FICE85                                                                         22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   LO.0    22.9   24.6   263   2L2   3J.    231.9
3. StlIO LtJEL 1FICER3S 4 M I A  I
6IE4T4TIU CIalSE                          g        -    -      I      I     1     3    2        -      -    2.0    2.0    2.0    6.0        -       -    2.4    2.6    2.7      7.7
0EIIT21SM                                 I0       -    -      I      I     1     3    2-    -         -    2.0    2.0    2.0    6.0         -      -    2.4    2A      2.7     7.7
SiiC4L am                                 in       -    -      I     I      1     3 2.5         -      -    1.5    1.5    1.5    4.5        -       -    1.3    1.9    2.0      5.0
S=31  TOUS                               I02       2    2      2     2      2    i0    2      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.      4.0   20J       4.2    4.5    4.0    5.1    5.5    24A
Sul-etal StlE LPJEL 1FrICE3S I 0 4 / A  I                                                        4.0    4.0  * 9 S      .5    9.5   36.5     4.2    4.5   11.4   12.2   12.    45.
6. SECIL _OD
SUIDIf llL CDCS I No- 11  I6Sle           P I     10           2     2      2     3    2      2.0    2.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   26.0       2.1    2.2    4.J    5.3    5.5    19.7
KmlWITS CIUSE                             m        -    -      2     2      2     6    I        -      -    2.0    2.0    2.0    6.0        -            2.4    2.      2.7     7.7
IMTI     O FPISS  UNIT COW                a        1    3      3     3      3    IS D.5       1.5  I.5    1.5    1.5    3.5    7.5         1.6    1.7    IJ     1.t    2J       9.0
SwT   MTC015E                             3o       2    2      2     2      2    20    3      6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    4.0   30.0       6.2    6.7    7.2    7.7    3.2    36.0
Sb-ltI  STtCUL S                                                                                 9.5    9.5   13.5   13.5   13.5   59.5      9.9  I.    U1        17.3    .4    72.3
Sq*-T,U  TYPE COF TAI*I0C  /a                                                                   e,003.5 1.12S.4 29. 254. 2,434.4 9.729.2 12.00.6 U2,26.9 313.0 3.J1. 331A7.4 t2411.1
Total                                                                                              12002.5 1.133.4 2.5T4.4 2h564.4 2,434.4 9129.1  3.00.6 1.26.9 3,203.0 3M10A 3,317.4 12WI.3
~ ._. _ _- _- -- _ _- _-
to1 AEI LEI.  SPECIAL CROsW    IIE TiMm1   FIR 9P93'slTE AK STAFF.
/b SEPIATELT PHVK FE VWE enlil3   FE P"I 40 m  FEO 3A DSIRICTS ORIENTATIONM _              CS
t   W D  TOM S44 512  1t2 701     U. 11 M  S1  6 FIVE VIM f1 1 MU  1 STATE SOuCTS ET   FER J _  9 [        U  T i _   S S
id CST5 NOT JUIE    IN I.P. AMC. EIT. PN50E 11
*ul.t 24. 14  11:57



- 72 -
1002                                                                              AAO   7
.nin.L zw.in omwm  100.CT                                                                         fabi. 702
T1e M62. 1TUIZ  331 COMS -043511
hilod Cat 1*1.
lh 'mo0
_m1t                                           _. Cast                                Toabl. 3rldo  C.tLartau
bt              
Slat14/ 5/NNil 37/0019 toal   ast14133/3     34/7   0/U    f/P    itm Do"53 d03l8 34/37g  7ot    i/9                   toa
III&       M    W05 PA  *MOP Tlit  en%   M             WO      &V      WOM      0M       ll 0 445 am              "M     pin    IM      lo
A. STAFF IRMO
I. 
n7 OnTE WEun                      so       I    I          t           3 *      Z X   223.  2.0       .S   Z .0   213.    144.0    29.1    31.3   UI.       335.0   3J.2   27.9
AlIT I2. V      TLr1V  / a                2    2    2    2    2    is  3D    46.0    U.S    U.S    64.0    U.S    330.0    0.6    73.1             39A    14.5      9.9   335.5
2.TMunk,I                                                                            94.0    94.0    4.      96.0    94.0   470.0    97.0  123.1   112.4   120.2   12.1    U3.?
2. SlUOL
JT   l     Am.                    4        1    J    1    1                 3    23.0      3.0    D3.0    33.0      A.   *.0        4.1 3   3.9    39.3    42.2    43.0  I17.
T. IIIEI MMIC.                             1    1    2    1    1       3   20    230..    0 0    230    2J.0    23.    14.0    29.1          1.1    D.5    15J    31.2   16.9
S12CT  ATIS 39ECn3 T              no       3    3       5    3        25   23   12.0    12.0   IZ0   122.0   12.0   625.0   130.0   IP1.    149.1   160.   132.3   19.5
6-Tol 3s13                                                                          01.0   2.0   06.0 o       N.0  120.0    1.4   193.4   207.    2.5   2.0   2.J  131.3
1. 021112
l?t XI. O 01f1      TW1                                                          1 4 *     O     *   3 0   2    212.0   224.0   224.0   2J4.6   224A  I A    11U.5   250.4   267.9   24J.    233   12.7
SAW  STIR PKEnO                   go      10   22   22   322    92  23    3.              06.0   30.A        .     06A  2.254.4   29.2   U.    6.2   447.4    49.3 2.W.I
14T-1.1. I    T                                                                     342.0   7e.0   7M.0 7a 0.0   7M0.0 3-.2.0  315.7   61.0             .1   94.2   994.3  9m.3
4.3*020113
3*2011Cm. gmcm                    40      38 3       9   89 3V    34    25 I-.5.0  1.43.0 15 1            41. 5.40 35.0  7u.ee  1.30.0 12.64.  I14.2  1.7.? 2.1.0   ".e
rAT  N!ts P1Caa                   In      10         a    d    a      12  2D   2l.O   414.0   4140   414*     414.   .  I.ON      239.2   462       2      32.0  6S4.2 2.29t.1
. m. lo5  11f                  No      74  124  1    124 I      2    5   17 I-ZS A  2.12.6  2.1.40  2.21.0  2.10.0 ftbO  123003 2.756.  2.21b      J 2.M97.  2472.7 11.5.3
VUj.   niN. Mo40    M    174   M 01                            I!  1.744    0 3b2Xd*  6.430 4.00  4.30 4.140  29.92A .3..A  747308 799m.2  3.39.1 9,124.0 34.M41
Si-Tstl 330101s 12S n0 .                                                                        .6 20.4.0 1.0.65.0 20,45.4.2.0o 6-173.3 1.93.7 12..0 737.0124.3 144.9 9J134.2
S. 6OT300 an p1eom
lo Jm                             so       1          I    I    a      5   D3    33.0   D3.0    33D.       D3.0    33.0DA    .0    34.3    3.9    39.3    42.2    4.        974.9
l0o AT. l a                                1    1 I I    I    I        5   2      2J.0    2.0      me    2.J   2J.0   12.          26.     27.9 2D.9   D2.0    34.2   24.9
UN    nnuT4T1C10                  on       I    I    I    I    I       s   20   23.0    20.0    20.0    30.0    2e.e   10.0    2.J    22.4          D.    2"A       27-   m39.9
3033  #AP. 31aC                   go       I    2    2    2    2    20   23    46.0    46.  4          4     . 0    46.0   20.0    47.3    5.4       A.    30.9    42.7   275.3
302w Slat1aSrC3                   a       3    2    2    2    2    20   20    40.         40.0    40.      40*    4.J    20d.   41A        4J.7    47.0    32.2    34.3   ZP.9
um1 101.3 imp.al4  z3             In       2    2    2    2    2    lo   13    3.0    30.4    30.0    0.0           0.0   2".0    31.2    n.3    21.9        .4    40.9   279.9
4MWK No                           a        2    2    2    2    2    30   17    36.0    34.0    34.6    34.0    2.0   170.0    21.4        .0    40.?    43.5    41.3   HL9
marTT                             go      9    9    9    9    I    a s t          "9.     90.0    r.6    r0.o    9.0   43L0         9.    2I.    107.  1*3.2   12.    W9.?
SibTuoil ITWOTIMI  me E    T3w                                                     311.0   333.0   323A    310.0   33.0  s3.90.0   330.7    .s      3.3   40dA    34  I a
032T1        loam                 go              I                        I I    2    2  s  ts.0    3.0  1  .0    35.    17s.0    3U.4    39.1    42.9    44.      47.7 39.9
S    fI TP                        do       2    2    2    2    2    20                    31.0    31.      56.1  4 .0   M. 3e.2    62.6    67.0    72.7    76.  M75
031.  fhTSaT                      so       4    4    4    4    4 *     0   21 n     .    ue.0 1.0   10.0   20.0   13.0   qe0.    24.0   121.0    11.4  13.    136.3   39.6
AmT. S4ITICIN                     on       I    2    2    2    2    *0   t3    30.0    30.0    3.0    30.0 3I.0   20.0    31.2    3.                  .     3A.4    40.    179.9
AM. OWL. IL. VFW                  MD0                 * P              1 P    4*   17    3.0    19D    19l  A.0   1.0   67.        0.    171.0   3.0        sa0   20.    AL?
al19                              No       I   3*   1*   31   11 22  *            44.0      .0    3.3      U.S      .S   416.0    6.  96. 4   20.L3   12           129.9   302.7
1*-Tutal 6W2TI 3VIE                                                                 370.0   462.0   442.0   462.0   442.0 e2l.2*0    304.3   3164   102.6   392.3   429U  2.674A
7.5299313149
A1d STSIF                         NO      9    74   74   M4   14  ]m    u0   39          740.0   140.0   140    740.0 3.-0.    63.4          .2   10.1   942.0 134  4..3
g1m0                                      23   73   73   73 t   1   113     7   162.0   31.0   322.0   111.0   323.0 2.2M.0   247.4   171.2   422.2    34.0   4.4  2..1
3t10                              40      I   V    22   t2   12  I27    6    72.0   M50   210   2t.0   M5.  1 .0    74.9  J2.2   304.2                       .4   34.9  .33L7
l.a-Total 3S931 1149!                                                               33I.0  1.-07  .07.0 W . 0 7d.  .3?7J *.0 .1.0 t   0.9  2.b4.5  21332.4 1.34  2.33.  0.32L.
Ske'T"~_ _00   _TF                                                                        _.             _               _      _
S1-Toel STAFF S*IS. 23. G l                                                                       3.0 m3.0 I3.3C.0 33..0 aw3.9   0,32.3 23.629  14.7     171337 u9.9.0 n7491A
Yotal                                                                                   I.02.0 13.33.0 33.33.0 23.33.0 33.33.0             53.4.75.1 171393.7- 11..2 2-Q.e a-.e  I-M.1  1 16 17  9.U. 77.4
lb K As on 140  M CTM  III UK AN  T3.1W
tb aDIS 22011S1 S0 3T2UL5.
_t 14. I90" 2I



INUIA
NATIONAL AGRICIAlTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 703. CIVIL UORXS - RAJASTlWI
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Quantity                                             last Costs                                   lotals Jncludinr  Contirkencies
------------------------------------  Unit  ------------------------- -- - ---------------------------------
Unit  941845 85/6 86/87 87/88 88/99 Total   Cost  84/85  95/86    86/97    97/88    88/89   Total    94/85  95/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    Total
:2Z:  :::5S :2::: :::S: :S2:S2 2::: :2:::ZZ  3X3   ::::: Z:352  3223                223322222222 3:==2 ZZZ  ZS :===:srs s::: s2-2 2z2  Ss2:22: :2rats2 --22 :zz:z ms:--:
A. SUPOIVISION
Is SOAO OFFICES           NO        -      4     -      -     -       4   250       -  1f000.0          -        -        -  1,000.0       -  1,227.1          -        -         -  1I227.1
2. SMS HOUSE              NO        -    20    24    24    14        82    80       -  1600.0  1920.0  1,920.0 1,120.0  6l560.0           -  1963.4  2,522.8  2.701,9  1,680.3  8,968.4
3. AEO HOUSE               NO        -    50    50    50    18    168    54         -  2,700.0  2,700.0  2,700.0   972.0  9,072.0          -  3,313.3  3i547*7  3799.6  19458,3 12,118.8
4, YEW HOUSE               NO       -   250   500   400   150  19300    36          -  9,000.0 18900.0 164.00.0 5P400.0 464900.0           - 11044,3 23,651.2 20,264,3  89101.5 634061.2
Sub-Total SUBDIVISION                                                                   - 11.300M0 22,620.0 19.020.0 7,492.0 63,432.0          - 17,548.1 29,721.7 269765.7 11,240.0 15f275.5
D. TRAINING HALLS             NO        -     5    10      5      -     20    75       -    375,0    750.0    375.0          -  1,500.0        -    460.2    M95,5    527.7           -  1,973.4
C. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                                                                                                                                                                                 -4
le OFlICE / LAO MAIN      NO        -      I     I      -     -       2   200       -    200,0    200.0          -        -    400.0       -    245.4    262.8          -         -    506.2
2. STORAGE MAIN            NJ        -     I      I     -      -      2    50              50.0     50.0         -        -    100.0       -      61.4     65.7         -         -    127,1
3. SUPSTATION              NO       -      I     -      -     -       I    SO       -      50.0         -        -        -     50.0       -      61.4         -        -         -      61*4
4. FARM OUA4TERS
OUARTERS A             NO        -      3     4      -     -       7    54       -    162.0    216.0          -        -    379.0       -    198.8    283.8          -         -    482.6
OUARTERS P             NO        -      3     4      3     -      1    36       -    108.0    144.0    106.0          -    360.0       -    132.5    189.2    152.0           -    473.7
Sub-Total FARM OUARTERS                                                             -    270.0    360.0    106.0          -    738.0        -    331.3    473.0    152,0          -    Y56.3
Sub-Total ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                                                            -    570.0    610.0    10640          -  1,266.0        -    695    801.5    152,0            -  1653.0
Total                                                                                       - 15,245.0 23,990,0 19P503.0 7P49240 66,220.0          - 110707.7 31,506.7 27445.4 11,24040 896.01.8
33s3  222222  22222:2322222             2m223     m:         222322ss 32      s         s 222222z2 33x22_22 ::uz
August 14, 1984 12:20
_q



-74
no mmL
FtML   NP MID   P611l1     463
wit son aim WV1 VAN 669 264.2 Cad N    MDE6 am OM WNW fled1,1   WmN  Wm8  amW PM9 WV8 1
4d23~~~~            92      4    .                       II   3m.8~~~~JU                       WA - 2..    38.1                        38.2-1
2. 66of
LO0                                        92      22    9 338                                   -                     1. 3    1.1M      -           -         31.
2. E3W3-?
:an13                                     92      I   31   13              29   3      "    WA 4  3 .8111.8 -     248 3.WA    =%  q 12.=A                  - dL,
6982I.92                                       2.                            1    2. _Z9-32              -    -  23.8A  38L8   MA 1-=                   3 *    4
9223.L                                    92      2   22    1    -          92     '-?*A1.   946.   944.    -    - 2.1.1.324949.1.                       -394
1. ..119                                                                    S 4"6                                               6
.4i  -oil          Jo1   11                                                            34.IL            -    -    -    36.   -,.9                           
.a223=                                    92           -    -    -    -    I   11   238         -                    23.8   34.                            
& a  _1m    rip gm                       3?      31         -    -    -    1   13 188                      MU3l"   V3234                      -    -    -   "2.
*..g6    3 =1                                           Md                            41212  NU. I-M                 I -MA43.    MIA.  39.4 I.M3             136.4
DoTA90-  a                                                                          a-MA9N13   846 -    N    41 31 &1M6.     -U2.^.  sd21A36.1 2.312 -      33.
L   ,111.2  UlN.12.248                                                                                              -1288 964.62.07                    -    -54
Ih?61*311.346864.                                                                                             -    -29685418.3.2268                   -       12.
2.4lf
an 13? oj2                          sr-      I    .    .-         .        43I 43.                               S43     NJ                              MA . N
we 136F4111,                         or       7    -            -    -    7   n5    NJA     -           -    -       I     9.4 5                      
sow-=6~ 9?~i                        3?       1         -    -   -    2   94                                      MA8 -      - N  1MA.  -  .        .    82
38466.1 4UE~~~~~~~~?W                                            13.8~~M     -A                  I - 13.    39.:   -            .        39.
2.  ~ ~ ~~~~~r                                r                              ilt                             3G   L   L                              O
mnzu                     ir-3   -4     .           .  .    14  is    WA.                             au - 8.  162                            W    1.2
bib-T"  12331                                       -            1           M31              -    -          34     345    -7          -             - .    4J
2w= -do  I-                                                 -         4    268       -           -    - 461 23.or.                          
1a.?g1   q.                                                                            92.       -           -    -" A13.6   623         -     -          - 93.
191146                                      ?           2    -               4 2         A.   3.'MA 24.                        21: 432         -           11.
IC19. in   Wa                            K?      'P .         .4   1    13.8 Z               U.2                      V23    39.1   '-I       -              3
3-4.I1 E828a4a                                                                        292.8I   31.8    -    -         *9.8   1-32  1W'.        -          - 49
M Jo 6311                                or       9         -         -    9 3       2 - --    -    - "A.8   W3.                                              Si  - 3.
'b.W 1= A                                  ?       9                                   3.8  -U          .    .    .   13.A   36.        -      -    -         23.6
K.   .     .     .     .     .    .  9     -                --           128                   - A    NJ2-4
3?    4631  . -    -  64   12    11.8   1.2                     941.2  9zJ  34.4        -    .   -
3?  46  .    -    -   44    1       ~~4n.3  -    -    -    -     68      .  -ZNI    4-Gw .0        -U5.2J
A   .1 -3?                                    1    -    - me-1I-                                  -          .            --
ft  2 7NOL-   462 WCCP&
fto2 ?Winl    ,2



1|DIA
NATIONMAL AMICLTLIRA EIIENSIEN M01ECT
Table 705. IICRIUTM   OKERATING COSTS - RA.TSU4X
btii1ed Cost Tablt
(Rs '0001
untity                                            lose Costs                              Totals lncludinr Centinwncoin
---- -------unit--------------
unit U4/B5 85/5  96/87  87/88 98/5   Total  Cost  54/85   O5/8d   96/97   71/898   98/9   Tet.l    U4/              GM   96/C7    /98   II /1    Total
=Xr: fh   2:1:: 21Z  -S322* S        a $33  . -        s -n3  *W5h3Z3 11*flS *ZSs 13,23,3    3283.23MdAh  33s3323s a223ss23 3s33ass3 222823  #223...
A. VEHICLE OFRATION
CMAR                               NO       J       3     3      3         1  5I   20    60.0    60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   300.0    62.13   66.    71.46   76,7   859    359.3
4 hI DIESEL                        NO      35    57    57    57    57   263   IS   525.0  855.0  ES5,0  OSS.0  955.0  34945."   544.7  951.9 1,020.0 14093.4 11167.1  41M.2
Sub-Total VEHICLE WEATION                                                                    565.0  915.0   915,0  915.0   915.0  49245.0   607.0 14019,7 1.091.6 1.170.1 1,249.0 5,136.4
S. OFFICF OPERATION
I. 4EALUMRTERS
AMINSTRAMIID                             -             -      -          -               2,00    2       2.0     2.0    2.0    10.0        2.1     2.2    2M4      2.6     2.7    12.0
OIIIOR1116 MD EVM.ULI1OU        Rs                                                      40.0   40.0   29.0    20    29.0   167.0    41.6   44.7    34.7    37.1   39.5   197.6
INFORPAION                      Rs       -      -                 -      -              43.0    43.0   43.0   43,0    U.0    21550        44.7   48.1    52.4   55.0   55,6   257.3
TUilANIK                        Rs       -      -      -      *      -      -              *       -       -               -        -        -       *         *             -
1Uk-Totl KARTERS                                                                           95.0   85.0    74.0   74,0   74.0   392.0    80.4   95.0   86.5   9417   I00.5   467.5
2. REG6VIOL
iwlMFTWi                        Rs       -      -      -      -      -      -          110.0  150.0  150,0  150.0  10.0   750.0   156.0  167.7  17.4   192.0  204.4   399.5
Sub-Total REBIOWL                                                                         lS0,0  1S0.0  150.0  5I0.0  150.0   750.0   1So,0  567.7  179.4  59.0  204.4   39S
3. DISTRICT                        Rs       -      -      -      -      -      -          13.0 1 135.0   35.0  535.    35          671.0   140.4  150.9  161.5  I72.3  19.0           9.5
4. RSOIVI9IIDIS                    Rs       -      -      -      -      -      -          250,0  250,0  250,0  250,0  250.0  15250.0   260.0  27995  299.0   319of  340.7  5,499.1
Sub-Total OFFICE WRTIQI                                                                      620,0  620.0  609,0   69,0  609.0  30467.0    44,3  693.0  729.4  7794   M29o9  3,615.5
C. FIELD TRIALS                              940  1,390  1,380  1.360  1,380  6460   0.5   470.0  690.0  690.0  690.0  690.0  30230,0   4EX8.0  771.3  625.3  30.0   940,3  31906.7
D. TMAEL i, NO MIUE
JDA / DM/ Sll                      No      24    45    41    41        41    IN      4    96.0  5U.0   564.0   14.0  IU.4 7.0   720          99.D   I6.3   192   209.9  223.5   912.7
SXO                                NO      50     59    59      St    59   296       4    ...0,   236.0  236,0  236.0  236.0  WWI4.0    206,0  263.9   232.3  302.e  3215,   5,377,7
SUIECT IMTTER SICIA.IST            NO      10    23    23    23    23    102    4          40.0   92.              92.0   92,0   406.o       41.6  102.D   110.0  117.7  125.4   497.6
MS. EXIINI OWICER                  NO      74    124   124   124   124   570         2    148,0  24.0  24.0  2M0  24.0  WW1I0I0  153.9  277.2  296M6   317.4  339.0  1,3t3.1
VILLAGE EXTN.    R                 IID    400   5U6    936   93    936  3744         1   400.0    .0    B36.0   U6.0  B36.0  3,7,4.0    416.40   934.5  999.9 1O69,9 1,139.2  4,559.5
Sub-Total TRiAL NM  ALLlCI                                                                   984.0 1,576.0 1576,0 1576.0 5,576.0 7d,   8.0    919.4 1I7J7 1.S85,0 2,016,9 2,147,7  1,730.6
E,  lWTliE RESEARA OFGT14IIN           Rs      -      -      -      -      -      -          250.0  1SM    IS0.0    150,0  5S0.0   750.0   156S0   167.7  179.4   192    204.4   399.5
F. SAU EXTENSION SUPOT                R        -      -      -      -      -      -          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   500.0   514.4  123.0  131.6  5405  1549.9   659.6
Total                                                                                          2,989,0 4,051.0 4,040.0 4,040,0 4,040.0 1930.0  2,930.4 4M5.3 441 2 5,132.2 5,521.2 239010.3
Samstr Saee  _am  _xtot   _g VW=   11311s;:13 rr 31s  *w s
Aulust 14, 1984 12132



- 76 -
AM=I! 7
youe 716. 11613 cum - m
MaIle GuM Tait
%Wtte                                           kms cost                              blab  1wk1d1  CoRitaet
2iSmx ca                               2263       AN    436   43    436   436 2.144  L.3   220.0  120.1  126.1  13.1  31.3  643.2    24. 3246.2  156.   167.4  171.2   M.1
M1197TUp CE                             NO       IN    11111I5 I 12          N          SW 306.3    33.4   33.4   MA.   J5.4   33.4  177.0    36.3   39.4   42.3   45.3   46.2   21.3
93131311.  MM3   I VDI in                No9      463   441   463   46    AN  2.340   1.3   641.4  636.'  60A.  641.4  641.4 3.00.0   62.7  100.    27.   775.6  829.1  3.66.2
W3130 1390                              1311    I'M1  1.441  20   1.360  1.00   5.40    0.5   141.0   00. 50 30.0  500.0  360. 23.50.   126.0   2.9   593.4  429.9  431.4  2.90.?
gn. gino                               MD       Ms    14    MN    is    too   so  0.5    so..   10.6   56.0   36.0   50.0  3L0.    12.0   33.9   59.1   44.6    A.I    MA9.
rimlOll                       IWV~231.   233  0    50    50    23   200    6   13.0  360.4  304.0  300.0  150.0 1.2006    156.0  13.3    M.I  243.9  234.4  1.423
SI2h1M                                 1D6"       266   140   00   100   IN1   50  0.4    44.0    4.0    40.0    4.0   46.0  241A             414    44.7   47.3   SI.2   5445   311.9
3.DI.t.1 uhIJAK D1116    bo                                                                      1.33L3 I.464.& 1.464.6 l.M6.6 1,514.6 3-012.2  1.564.9 I.66.7 1.999. 2.33.3 2.06A.  9.609.9
2. 1C. 11r11M3 WFnE
WIE5&T6T33K                              NO        V9    59    59         9  V    29       I    39.0   39.0   59.0  59.0   39.6  2934           61.4    MA.   70.6   75.5   01.4   ALI
WuE,.                                    No019    200   20   236    200   200.0410 0.35          31.0   30.0   20.0   2. 30       4  5.0 3D  M   1.2   21.5   33.9   30.    4L.9   379.9
9M7LrN13 CM                             DM         20  20  20  21  20140   1   20.0 20.0 2L026.0  2.0 141.6    20.332L.422.933627.3 119.9
990U13                                  1316        5    10    10       5           2 0    I    46.0   l  00.0 6.    46.0         -340.0       41.6   .493.7    51.2             -   V7.17
SW109133                                13110      20    20    20    20    20   100    1    20.0   2.0.   20.6   20.0   20.0  100.0    M0.3   22.4   22.9   BA.   27.3   119.9
SWI-Toal IjC. WWIU  179115                                                                         149.   339.0  209.   169.   229.4   i.o    173.1  ZU4   230.0  216.3  373.1 1451.4
3L NLETm  W.ToE  11336.
3613011IO    3f                          90 n       7     7      7      7     7    Is    I        7.0    7.0    7.0    7.6    7.0   33.0        7.3    7.0    I.4    9.0    9.3    42.0
@L(Y 1os                                 on    It  34  34  64  54 420   2  3440 4.0384.0 34.6314.0 40.0   VA493.9160.3267J3114.254ML?
111164 M=                                40         6      7     7      7     7    34   1.5       9.0   16.5   16.5   10.3   16.5   53.0        9.4   11.7   22.6   134    34.3    61.4
926611                                  131W        -     S'   10    10       5    20    I         -46.60 10.0  6.0    46.0246.0                  -  44.7953.7140.4    54.3   297.1
SIWY TM3                                Dog        IC 10 36      0    16    20    50    2    20.6   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  300.6    20.1   22.4   23.9   336    .12    119.9
Mk-Tsta  SIBZT soTnG SP1.IST                                                                       M2A.  261.5  261.5  21.5   141.5  646.6   124.3  100.5  241.6  33.9 36.1 1,40.3
4. FM1. OFFICERS             3 1     N  
P4IMIT mIO                               40K        7     7      7      7     7    33    1        7.0    7.0    7.0    7.4      7.03. ZIA         2     7.6    3.4    9.0    9.5    47.
fiUAW" coll                              la         I      2     I      1     1      5 1.5        13.    1.5    1.5    1.53    1.5    7.5        146    .1.7-1.0       1.9    2.6      940
,1Ea4. CO                                N          2     2      2      2     2    103            3451.  3.0    3.0   3L0       3.0   35.       3       2.4    3.      3.3    4.1   1MA
SVI11T                                  1319IM      5     1      5      5     5    33    2       10.0  16.610.01IDA010.0NA                     16.4   11.2   12.31-2.3        U 13 6 1.0
2*-TOtal UWFM   933 71333.'     1                                                                  21.3   21.S   23 25 33.    21.3  107.5    MA.   24.0   337   77.    294    22.9
5. NM  1640 OFFICUcA  /.Ai 2
awlifull M=0                                        1     -      1I                  2    2       2.0      -    2.6       -       .    i.6      3.1       .    2.4       -       -     4.3
MRSTC                                    a0         I         -  I                   2    2       2.0      -    2.0       -       -    4.0      2.1       -    2.4       -       -     4.3
VctfL Cma                      Jo~~9      1        1      11        1      5  1.3       . 1.3 2 .3    1.5 2.           .5    7.5      146    1.7    1.3    1.9    2.0        9.0
2ub4132 II=133       OF=   W 69  Ai6 2I. 3 . 5.5    1.5 3-                                                                 1       1.5   15.5      5.7    1.7    646    1.9    2.0    17.9
6. 3ETF. aw
M= L.C I6M-D11336I                       a0         I      1     I      I      I     5    2       2.4    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.6   104         3.1    2.2    2.4      246    2.7    23.
PA  Om                                   No         2     2      2      2     2    160  4         1.0    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.4   3Lo         1.0    2.1    1.2    21.       1.4     6.
APPM   KKNO                    MD0        1     -      I     -      -      2  04       043       -    643       -      -    141       043      -    04         -      -      1.2
04EIIa   eD1Iinm mu TO              le         I      1     I      I      1     50.1         0.5    6.5    0.5    6.5    145    2.5         04     0.6    6.6    046    3.7        3.4
gaUT AERM   01313                        90         5     5      5      5        33    6.1 O      2.3    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   I2.3        246    2.3    3.6    2.        3.     15A
S*-bTvw  9PT36 NW                                                                                    6.5    64      6.5    AA0    4.0   31.5       6.3    4.7    7.3    7.7    EJ2    7.1
2J*-Teta  120K1W116ZI1   /,                                                                        1.406.32.06.12.14l42.034.1 1.U0.1 9,137.2  1.099.2,.20. 2.=J 2.W641  2.P9A4 11.69
TSUI2                                                                                                   1.916.3 2.444.1 2J.24140 .1 1.834.1 9.39.2  1.39.42.207.? 2.m.0AUI 2.41,2.9    U.9.A
1, ST M131   1931.. 11113.        CJ   TIA.3 N11 I122FM AITM T AK1 STIFF.
hm    4.1296432



-         - 77 -
M1                                                        Table 802
Table 802. DIRECTMIE IF  XIE10 - DII TI. SFTFF
btailed East Tabe
(Es IN)
hAtitw                                    lasM cEsts                      Totas Iudin  CtiraAiK
init
Lit 84/f5 65A36 86137 07/011 A9 Totl  Cost llVII  5M        7 K  7/W   UM  Total    4U115 W5II      87 K  7M      /IMM   Total
52. -s2  S    8,,,   _          .s   as    , S            m-i                    ,                              s_
A. STAFF SLARIES
1. NIIISTRT/EXTENSION DIV.
J1. COMIUISSIOER EXTI        g0      2    2    3    4    4   15   31  76.0 76.0  114.0  152.0  152.0  570.0  7.0  5.0  136.3  194.5  207.1  702.0
ASST. CIUISSIOIE Elt.        N       -    -    2    2    2    6   26        -    -   52.0   52.0   52.0  156.0        -    -   U2.2   66.5   70.9  IIM
SR. TEGn. ASST.             No       2    2    2    2    2   10   1&  32.0 32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0  160.0  33.3 35.9   31.3   41.0   43.6  m.9
SR. STEOGRAIER               No      2    2    3    4    4   15   13  26.0 26.0   3.o   52.0   52.0  195-0  2.-0 291   46.6   66-5   70.9  240.2
PEOP                         NO      I    1    2    2    2    0    7   7.0  7.0   14.0   14.0   14.0   51.0   7.3  7.8   16.7   17.9   19.1   63.3
DEK9 OFFICER                 No      I    r    I    I    2    s   20  20.0 20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  100-0  26.1  22.4   23.9   25.6   27.3  119.9
SECTION OFFICER              IID     I    I    I    I    I    5   19  19.0 19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   95.0  19.1 21.2   22.7   24.3   25.9  113.9
SP. ST    1IOM               o      1    1    I    I    1    5   13  13.0 13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   d.0   13.5 14.5   15.5   16.6   17.7   78.0
U1DC                         No      -    -    I    I    1    3   11        -    -  11.0   11.0   11.0   33.0         -    -   13.2   14.1   15.0   42.2
LIC                          No      I    I    I    I    I    5    9   9.0  9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   45.0   9.4 10.1   10.1   11.5   12-3   54-0
Sb-Total MINISTRY/EXTENSION DIV.                                           202.0 202.0  32.0  374.0  374.0 1,475.0  10.1 225.i  396.3  473.6  569.7  911.05
2. FIELD EXTENSION UWIT
IT. DIRECTOR                 ND      3    3    5    5    5   21   26  73.0 73.0  130.0  130.0  L30.0  546.0   1.1 B7.2  u5.5  I.4  177.2  667-3
SR. EXTN. OFFICER            No      3    3    1    3    3   15   26  73.0  7S.0   73.0   73.0   73.0  390.0  11.1 17.2   93.3   97.1  106.3  467.7.
XTII. OFFICER                NO      -    -    3    3    3    919           -    -   57.0   57.0   57.0  171-0        -    -    8.2   72.9   77.7  218.
TECH. ASST.                  ND      2    2    3    3    3   13   13  26.0 26.0   39.0   39.0   39.0  169.0  2.0 29.1   46.6   49.9  93.1  205.3
JR. STEERAIR O               No      2    2    6    6    6   22   11  22.0 22.0   66.0   66.0   6.0  242.0  22.9 24.6   78.9    4.5   B9.9  3800.
INC                          No      2    2    2    2    2   10    9  1301- l.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   90.0  1UW120-1   21-5   23.0   24.5  1C7.
PEON                         No      1    1    2    2    2    *    7   7.0  7.0   14.0   14.0   14.0   56.0   7.3  7.B   16.7   17.9   19.1   Am
Sit-Toal FIELD EXTENSIN UWIT                                                229.0 229.0  t02.0  402-0  402.0 1664.0 23.2 25.0  4O.u  514.5   47.3 2W37.2
3. TRAINING UWIT
JT. DIRECTOR                 No      I    1    3    3    3   11   29  29.0 29.0   07.0   B-0   37.3  310-0  30-2 32.4  104.1  111.3  113.6  3n.5
SR. EXTN. OFFIER             NO            1    2    2    2    B   26  26.0 26.0   52.0   52-0   52.0  206.0  V.0 27.1   622   6.5   709  235.7
EXTi. WFFICER                No      3    3    4    4    4   13   19  57.0 57.0   76.0   76.0   76.0  342.0  59.3 63.7   90.9   J.3  103.6  414.7
STEOGRAF                     No      I    1    3    3    3   1    it  11.0 11.0   33.    33.0   33.0  121.0  11.4 12.3   39-5   42.2   45.   515.4
AM                           NO      -    -    1    1    1    3   19        -    -   19.0   19.0   19.0   57.0        -    -   22.7   24.3   25.9    72.9
JR. ACCWTNIT                 No      -    -    I    I    1    3   13        -    -  13.0  13.0   3.0    39.0         -    -  1.5  16 617.7  0.9
Sub-Total TRAINING UIT                                                     123.0 123.0  230.0 . B0.0  230.0 Id06.0  127.9 1D.5  334.9  353.3  331.6 19340.2
4. FRM INFIOARTION UWIT
AT. DIRECTOR                 No      1    1    2    2    2    3   29  29.0 29.0  35.0   3a.0   30.0  232.0  30.2 32.4   69.4   74.2   79.0  J5.2
IVITY DIRECTOR               NO      I    I    1    1    1    5   26  26.0 26.0   26.0   26.0   26.0  130.0  2.0 29.1   31.1   33.3   35.4  15.9
STEPRWHER ( JR.2             No      1    1    2    2    2    9   11  11.0 11.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  S3.0  11.4  12.3   26.3   21.2   30.0  10.2
Sub-Total FARM INFORMATION WIIT                                             66.0 6.0  106.0  10D.0  106.0  450.0  61.6 73.3  126.3  135.7  144.5  549.3
5. AIINISTRATION UNIT
DEPT DIRECTeR                N       -    -    2    2    2    6   21        -    -   52.0   52.0   52.0  156.0       -    - 6    .2   66.5   70.9  19-.
R. STEORAPIER                No      -    -    2    2    2    6   11        -    - 22.0   22.0   22.0 6.0             -    -   26.3  3.2   3e.0   34.4
LDD                          me      -    -    2    2    2    6    9        -    -  11.0   23.0   13.0   54.0         -    -   21.5   23.0   24.5    9.1
Sub-Total AUINIIMSTRATION UIIT                                                 -    -   92.0   92.0   92.0  276.0       -    -  110.0  117.7  125.4  353.
Sub-tal STAFF SARIES                                                          620.0 620.0 1.2.0 1,254.0 1,254.0 4.951.0 64. 693.0 1.43.3 1.4N.8 1701.9 h6190.4
Total                                                                             620.0 620.0 1P23.0 1254.0 1.254.0 4,951.0 644.3 693.0 1943.3 1,604.3 107.9 6O90.4
Auust 14. 1904 15:48



INDIA
NATIONAL A8RICULIURAL EX1ENSION PMOJECI
Table 803. DIRECTORATE OF EXTENSION   CIVIL ORKS
Detailed Cost Table
IRs '000)
Quantity                                          Base Costs                             Totals Including Contingencies
-------------------Unit  ---------------------------------   --------                                                           ----
L'nit  84/85 85/86 96/67 87/88 88/89 Total  Cost  84/85  85/86   86/87   87/88  C8/89 Total    84/85  85/86   86/87   87/88  88(89  Total
AI CIVIl WUNS
H U IlLDItIC:   XR         -      -     -      -     -      -             - 1 M400,0 4,900.O 2M800,0       - 9,100.0       - 1.718,0 6,438.4 30940J3        - 124096.7
8ub-!tjl1 C!'llL  JOPNS                                                        - IO00.0 MOM.  2800.0           - 9100.0         - 1;718.0 6.438.4 3,940.3       - 124096.7
lote!                                                                              - 1,400,0 4,9000 2,900.0        - 9,100.0        - 1,718.0 6438,4 3&940,3         - 12.096.7
P.I-ist 149 1Q99    15:4                                                                                                                                                               >
w



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 804. DIRECTORATE OF EXTENSION - VEHICLES ANH EOUIFMENT
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Quantity                                       Base Costs                       Totals Including Contingencies
------------------------------------  Unit  ------------ -
Unit  84/85 85/96 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Cost  84/85 85/86  86/87  87/88 88/89 Total    84/85 85/86  86/87  87/88 88/89 Total
:2=           =x :  := :          =        :Za :   :==: =:::s =::::::  C== =::z Zx:z:C==  :::c atm= mzz=:=       zmz2=== ::::  :::  ::: 
A  VEHICES AND EQUIPMENT
1. 'VEHICLES
4:sRs    3                                3   100  300.0                                300,0  310.2                               310.2
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                              300.0          -       -             300.0  310.2                               310.2       '4
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                    .0
Ha BUILDING              Rs                                                      -      - -1000,0      -     - 1,000.0       -     - 1,312,3      -      - 1,312.3
OTHER EQUIPMENT          Rs        -     -      -     -      -     -         300.0 300.0   300.0  25.0       -   925,0  342.4 367.4   393,7  35.2        - 11380.7
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                                                             300.0 300.0 1'300.0  25,0       - 1,925.0  342.4 367.4 1,705.9  35.2        - 21450,9
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                   600.0 300.0 1,300.0  25,0       - 2,225.0  652,6 367.4 1,705.9  35.2        - 2076141
Total                                                                                   600.0 300.0 1,300,0  25,0       - 2,225.0  652.6 367,4 1W705,9  35,2        - 20761,1
ZVZ=s ::::: =:::::: ::::= ::::  :::::   MCC==: ::::: :=-:::- ::::: -5:S2 ::::S::
August 14, 1984 15:50
g1!
0
.P



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 605. DIRECTORATE OF EXTENSION - INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Ouantitv                                     Pase Costs                      totals Including Contingencies
-----------------------------------  Unit  -------------------------------------  ---------------------------------------
Unit  84/85 85/86 86/87 97/88 88/89 Total  Cost  84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total    84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88  88/89  Total
'INSLVAHNT SERVICES  /a       Rs        -     -      -     -     -      -        600.0 600.0 600.0 600.0 600.0 3,000.0  624.0 670.7 717.6 767.9   917.6 3,597.9
CONSULIANT SERVICES  !b       RS        -     -      -     -     -      -            -   1.0   1.0   1,0   1.0       4.0       -   1,1   1.2   1.3      1,4     5.0
HU MAINTENANCE  /c            Rs           -         -     -     -      -        100.0 100,0 100.0 100.0 100.0   500.0  104,0 111.8 119.6 128.0   136.3   59."6
TRAVEL /d                     Rs        -           -      -     -      -         60.0  60,0  60.0  60.0  60.0   300,0   62.4  67.1  71,8  76,8    81,8   359.8          c
Su9-T.'*l OPERATIONS                                                                760,0 761,0 761.0 761.0 761.0 39804,0  79044 850.6 910.2 9'3.9 1,037.0 49562.2
760.0 761.0 761.0 761.0 761.0 3M804.0  790.4 850M 6 910.2 973.9 1,037.0 4o562.2
. ... ..............  --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --
7a  SLUPERVISION TEAMS, 3 VISITS PER YR. TO 16 STATES, PERDIEN AT 'Rs'200 PER MENSER
!b  INTERNAL rON;UL!ANC) SCHEhEM  1984/1785 FINANCED UNDER 862-IN.
c  V'E1ICLE AND EGUIPhENT MAINTENANCE
.i (NE 'OUR FtR MCN1H F!R 20 OFFICERS                                                                                                                                       .I
Aluust 14. 194  15:5Qc



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROACT
Table 806. DIRECTORATE OF EXTENSION - TRAINING COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Ouantitv                                          Base Costs                                Totals Including Continitncies
----- '------- ----------------  Unit --------------------- -   - - ---------
Unit 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Cost  84/85   85/86   86/87   97/88   88/89   Total           84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total
S5:   - X ::::  :2: :=S=ig:: SSa : :::  ::=:: :::=  222 = :2==::                    222=s   ::::s    2:==  :::33: 2SS22:: _2::::: :2322=: :=22:12:
A. TRAINING COSTS
OVERSEAS TRAINING  /a           NO      40    50    60    60    60   270    50  2,000.0 26500.0 3M000.0 3M000.0 3,000.0 13,500.0  2M080,0 20794,5 3,58841 3u39.3 4,088.2 169390.2                .
TRAINING COURSE  /b             NO      10    60    80    80    80   310    33    330.0 1980,0 2,640.0 2,640.0 2,640.0 109230.0    343.2 2,213.2 3,157.6 3,37896 3,597,6 124690.2
WORKSHOPS /c                    RS       -     -      -     -     -     -           100.0   100.0  100,0   100,0   100.0    500.0    104.0   111.9   119,6   129.0   136.3    599.6
TRAINING PUBLICATIONS  'd       RS       -            -     -     -     -           200,0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  IO00,0    208,0   223.6   239.2   256.0   272,5 1199.3
Su b-Total TRAINING COSTS                                                            2,630.0 4t780,0 50940.0 5,940.0 5,940.0  5t230,0  2,735.2 5,343.1 7,104,5 7160148 81094,7 30,879,3
Total                                                                                   2M630.0 4,780.0 549400 5,940.0 5,940.0  25,230,0  2,735,2 5,343.1 7,104.5 7,601.9 89094,7 30,979,3
------------------------------------~ ~ ~ ------------------------------ ----------=:=   *:S-:S::::5S:  :5zX-=2:  :X:=-S5   ==:
/a 40 OFFICERS PER YR. FROll ALL STATES FOR UP TO 2 STAFFM1NTHS EACH.
/b ALL-INDIA/REGIONAL TRAINING COURSES FOR SIIS AT 'Rs'33,000 EACH (1984/1985 COVERED BY CR. 862-IN).
,'c ALL INDIAiREGIONAL WORKSHOPS.
fId PREFAFATION AND' SUPPLY OF MANLIALS AND OTHER PUPLICATI.ONS FOR FIELD EXTENSION STAFF,
August 14, 1984  15:51I
CD 



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Dlrectorate of Agicultural Extenslon
Organizatlon Before Project
I.ov   Ao9vttin)                      lCnXco 
I         I
lllst  ll st                      Mit Ctn   m C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   1---.'
ChJf bdtilt    1* (Wn:;                                            1 EO.
i  Lfl kikMmM hllforlme
AiMo0s4  ikio# .i '                         _b1*D
ki         14LVM EC~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EX1ENSION PROJECT
Proposed Orgonliation for the Ministly and the Directorate of Extension
W2tlcfV (A ) &
RADOTAM tCEU    E I A
rxm~~c*~~ C~IMaC"fl
I         II                   _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  __rf atlw_ , 
FIEL EXVSM VANG           r1                  a4MFM                                    N NG WG  t  W
El   A                                                   5 I A            E   I A
EMSO        JOIN Ca~wvr       - i 'I              JW Cowrhaw    -                       itcor?iimu      I (1) -I
DmONL       Ant C4nwav"       - -An CaI ws                         - -a                Sr Tuc Ant       -   2                           _.
FIELD ErEwo wM                      419MINIMM_  _                         FARM  tOWT ION UN           _ASlt:Ft W
E   I A ~ ~     ~     ~    S I
I   I A             Dca                i Ci) -  -           -I                   -I 
DIRICIORTE O  D"dr     I(1) -  -            JOSDuckx           6(l)  1  2         Dic9 N              I   -  -
OIWNIOAIO    .JtODusia      2(1)  3  2            9 in M               2   1  1              bCx2(1)  1                                        S   I A
Ex1rdi orJiaiO    2(2) -  3        J _.ciri   W        I    -  -         DipDhucw*dIsuu  2(l)                       D -  ,p Dck  3(3) - 2
tech AIO      -   2 -              SrH&WlEccr;        I(1   -            O"WIwTin  SW      17C14)--
lo a FiTUe*I    4(2) -  -                                             [_________
E - toCf "1 2eld b*YC NA.
Au h C )  hcat@ r   hi pt
I= hantwt Bt ~'ttYet  Vud NSP.
A * AdIbd   NAEP him Xa 6                                                     b                                                        d 4-2M1



- 84 -
ANNEX 9
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTUIRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUWIARY
(Rs '000)                    (US$ '000)                      Z Total
-------- Foreign   Base
Local   Foreiin   Total       Local   Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
A. 4ADHYA PRADESH
1. INCREHENTAL STAFF COSTS              177901.0         -  17,901.0   17627.4         -  1I627.4           -        4
2. CIVIL WORKS                          567738.8  2,986.3  599725.0   5,158.1   271.5  5Y429.5              5       12
3. VEHICLES AND EQUIPHENT                9,860.1  27959.5  12.819.5       896.4   269.0  19165.4           23        3
4: INCREMENTAL OPER.TING COSTS           12P689.3    250.0  12,939.3   17153.6    22.7  14176.3             2        3
5. TRAINII6 COSTS                        9.729.1         -   9,729.1      884.5        -    884.5           -        2
Seib-Total MADHTA PRADESH                  1069918.2  67195.7 1139113.9   90719.8   563.2 107283.1             5       23
P. ORISSA
1. INCREfENTAL STAFF COSTS              17,608.0         -  17,608.0   1P600.7         -  19600.7           -        4
2. CIVIL WORKS                          99,039.4  5,212.6 104P252.0   9,003.6   473.9  97477.5              5       21
3. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                9?230.3  2,354.8  11P585.0       839.1   214.1  17053.2           20        2
4. INCREMENTAL OPEPATING COSTS           11,882.0        -  11,882.0   1,080.2         -  1,080.2           -        2
5. TRAINiNG COSTS                        115j78.5        -  116578.5   19052.6         -  1,052.6           -        2
Sub-Totel ORISSA                           149?338.2  7?567.4 156,905.5  13,576.2   687.9 14t264.1             5       32
C. RAJASTHAN
1. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS              630999.0         -  639999.0   5,818.1         -  5,818.1           -       13
?  CiVIL WORKS                          62Y909.0  3Y311.0  66P220.0   5t719.0   301.0  6020.0               5       14
'EHir,ES AND EOUIPfENT               11,705.5  39462.9  15,168.4   10U64.1   314.8  1,378.9            23         3
4. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS           189555.5    424.5  18,980.0   1,686.9    38.6  1,725.5             2        4
5. TRAININGC COSTS                       0,897.1         -   ?,897.2      899.7        -    899.7           -        2
Sub-Total RAJASTH4N                        167iO66.2  7919B.4 174,264.6  159187.8   654.4 15v842.2             4       36
D. D'IRECTORATE OF EXTENSION
1, INCREENTUAL STAFF COSTS               4t?51.0         -   4'951.0      450.1        -    450.1           -        1
2.  TVIL WORKS                          83645.O    455.0   99100.0        785.9    41.4    827.3            5        2
3. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                 1.957.5    267.5 2,225.0        17B.0    24.3    202.3           12        0
4. INCREMENTAL OPEPATINE COSTS            7.804.0        -   3,804.0      345.8        -    345.8           -        1
J. TRAINING COSTS                       :-- 39           -  259230.0   29293.6         -  29293.6           -        5
Sub-Total DIRECTORATE OF EXTENSION          446587.5    722.5  45,310.0   4053.4    65.7  47119.1              2        9
Tab: nASEHE Cr5TS                                .          -. 4ES  ti.94.r  42,537.3 1,971.3 449508.5          4      100
Physical Continrder.cies                   2  6.-?. B 12W3.5  24,972.6   2,153.6   116.7  2?270.2             5        5
Priee Conrtingercies                      100,7215.1  39582.0 104,307.1   9v156.8   325.6  99402.5            3       21
7;t'i PROJECT COSTS                          5i * 3: 2:2. -   49.4 619,873.7  53,847.7 2,413.6 56?261.2          4      126
ugut !-4  1984  1.6:43;



ANNEX 10
- 85 -
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
pl m-aotat lan Schedule
MDA/Dog d State Subprojects
PIE
PRE-BOARD       EFFECTIVE-                      Month after Eff. ctilygs:
ITEM                 P?RSZXTATION    NESS            1,2,3,4,5,6.7,5,9,10,11,12,13,14,15.16,17,18,19.2O021,22,23,24
Clvi works
SitC Selection
Prepare Tender
Con struct an
Vehlicle 6 EquiPmet
Prepare Thudarm
Purchae: Vehicles
Equipment
Sraff
Stace AppoinC Dns:
Badquarturs
Regiamal
District
SubdivislIo
Flield
Ionltoring & Evaluation
.AA/DOE:
MCA Core Unlt
DOE Training Unit
DOE Appraisl, ME thlt
Train ing
By States
By HnD/o
Assumes effectiveness by December 31, 1984



- 86 -                              ANNEX 11
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                                   Cumulative
and Semester                        Semester                        Total
-- -- --us$ M----
FY85 1st
2nd                          1.6                             1.6
FY86 1st                           1.6                            3.2
2nd                          3.9                             7.1
FY87 1st                          4.0                            11.1
2nd                          5.5                            16.6
FY88 1st                           5.7                           22.3
2nd                          5.4                            27.7
FY89 1st                           5.4                           33.1
2nd                          3.1                           36.2
FY90 1st                           2.9                           39.1
Expected Completion       June 30, 1989
Expected Closing Date: March 31, 1990



INDIl fi-NfWr P  VS RVI O.OR. MP. e.)
O l 5BURSrHWNT PR(I 11.1:
- - ==--         mf:.nrP; Ol lip.
c) I NnEP r..?                                           Li
Li -~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-4.
OLC)                                                                               AL
C)                                                                                                                    Cl
0n                                                                           /                                        (1 '1  ~t
/      o" 
/' 
n9 -                                                                                                /
C)                                                                                      Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
In                                                             /                    /                                  n      
o-/        X~~~~~~~~
nc  /!-                         .. -} l-                                                                                C i~~~'g |    
2   3   4   1  ~~~2   3     1 2   3          I 2   3           1 2   '3   d2    I ul
YR I              YR 2              YR 3               YR  l            YR 5              YR 6           YR 7



- 88 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Recommended Staffiing Pattern for States
State Governmeut
- Agricultural Production Commissioner
- Secretary of Agriculture
- Overall responsibility for the policy and financial
guidance of the project.
- Director of Azriculture
- Responsible for the Administration and Technical
content of the project and coordination with other
Department of Agriculture programs.
Headquarters
- Additional Director of Azriculture (Extension)
- Exclusively responsible for agricultural extension;
no other responsibilities.
- Subject Matter Specialists
- Three to six SMSs including one Training Officer.
- Specializations depend on state needs, but should
include main areas covered at lower levels as well
as special needs (e.g., farm trials, women's agri-
cultural activities, important crops, rainfed and
irrigation agronamy, soil and water management,
farm management, agricultural economics and imple-
ments).
-  To be supported by SMSs nominated from other Depart-
ments, the subject matter of which is covered by
extension agents (e.g., farm forestry, animal husband-
ry, horticulture, sericulture, etc.).



- 89 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
Zoue/Ranne
- Joint Director of ARriculture
- To have prime responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion.
- Subiect Matter Specialists
- There may be a small number of SMSs representing
specialization not represented by SMSs at other levels.
District
- District Agricultural Officer
- Where there are considerable non-extension duties at
the district level, or where a district has a sub-
stantial number of subdivisicLd, there should be a
second officer at district level so that he may be
responsible only for agricultural extension.
- Subiect Matter Specialists
- Four to five SMSs, including one Training Officer.
- Specialization depends on district needs and specialist
support available at subdivision and headquarters
(or zone/range) level. As well as supporting main sub-
division, specialists should also represent special
areas (e.g., important crops, rainfed and irrigation
agronomy, soil and water management, women's agricul-
tural activities, 'arm trials, farm management, agri-
cultural economics and implements).
- To be supported by SMSs nominated by other departments,
the subject matter of which is covered by extension
agents (e.g., social forestry, animal husbandry, horti-
culture, sericulture).
- District (or University) Extension Agronomist
- This position is recommended as the officer is useful
for coordinating contacts between extension and re-
search and for organizing monthly workshops.



- 90-
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
Subdivision
- Subdivision ARricultural Officer
- Where there are considerable non-extension duties at
the subdivision level, or where a subdivision has more
than ten or so Agricultural Extension Officers, there
should be a second officer at subdivision level respon-
sible for agricultural extension.
- Subiect Matter Specialists
- Four or five SMs5, including one Training Officer
- Specializations depend on subdivision needs, but nor-
mally include SHS Agronomy, Plant Protection, some izr-
portant crops and/or special subjects and a Training
Officer.
- To be supported by SMSs nominated by other departments,
the subject matter of which is covered by extension
agents (e.g., social forestry, animal husbandry,
horticulture, sericulture).
AEO Ranze
- Atricultural Extension Officer
- Responsible for not more than eight village extension
workers.
VEW Circle
- Village Extension Worker
- Responsible for an agreed upon number of operating
farm families.



- 91 -
AMNEX 14
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Guidelines
1.      The Agriculture Extension Service has an important role in
increasing agricultural productivity and, thus, farmers' incomes. To do
this. farmers need knowledge and skills for efficient management of their
crops, livestock, physical resources, and farm business as a vhole.
Essentials of success include incentives for production, evolving suitable
technology through research, availability of credit, inputs, transporta-
tion, and markets. The respousibility of the extension agents is to
provide the farmer with the knowledge to improve his income, to verify nev
technology as it develops, and to identify and diagnose farmers' produc-
tion problems to provide feedback to researchers on "new' problems or
previously unnoticed constraints. A training program is, thus, essential
for extension workers (VEW/AEO) since they must be able to demonstrate the
actual techniques of improved farm husbandry to farmers.
A. Traininz for Extension
2.      Training programs for extension workers and agricultural
administrators must be strengthened to provide better disseminatiou of
advice as a means of overcoming production constraints, and to assist
farmers in the adoption of improved agriculture husbandry practices. The
professional extension system is a basis for an improved extension serv-
ice. This service depends on sustained and regular training of extension
workers and the transfer of appropriate recommendations to farmers through
regular visits by VEW. The keynote in India is continuous practical
training of about 75,000 VEW and AEO by 3,300 SMS, who are conversant with
the latest research results, who are active in the identification of local
problems, and who participate in local verification trials. Training in
administration and management is required for about 1,500 mid-level and
100 senior level staff.
Training Strategy
3.      Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of researchers, extension staff and farmers must be
such that it imparts the specific skill or information needed. There is
little merit in merely telling the farmer to adopt skills. The farmer
needs to know how to adopt the skill. It is best if the extension worker
actually works with the farmer while teaching skills. This implies that
AEO and SMS must also be able to practice skills. Furthermore, trainers
of SNS (usually research workers and senior staff) need to be acquainted
with farming operations and how they are best performed. This requires a



ANNEX 14
-92 -                                Page 2 of 9
change in present training methods from a reliance on lectures to "learn-
ing by doing", i.e. skill-teaching techniques.
4.      The first step in designing appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to
improve his production. The second step is to identify which of these
would be taught by VEW to the farmer. The order of operation and their
seasonal priority is then determined so that VEW can get appropriate
training at the proper time. AEO, as supervisor of VEW, would not only
need training in what is to be passed on to the farmer, but should also be
able to answer more advanced technical questions and identify practical
problems to guide and improve the work of VEW, and to be effectively
involved in farm trials and diagnosis of farmers' production constraints.
Subdivisional and district SMS need an even greater depth of knowledge so
as to enable them to instruct both VEW and AEO and to be effectively
involved in farm trials and resource constraint diagnosis.
5.      Research as well as extension workers have to develop ability in
identifying constraints that limit farm production and in targeting
research programs to the practical resolution of these problems. This
implies joint farm visits by research and extension workers, cooperation
in design, execution and analysis of trials on farmers' fields, and a
continuous exchange of information and ideas between research, extension
and farmers. This project supports these activities.
6.      Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO and monthly workshops for SMS
vould be major features of extension training, including under NAEP.
Additional and more specialized training, however, should also be provided
for each category of extension worker. Basic training requirements for
each level of staff are shown in Table 1 and described below.
B. State Training Programs
Village Extension Worker (VEW)
7.      Pre-service Training.  VEW have generally completed secondary
school and are then given a six-monthly or a two-year diploma course in
agriculture at a training center. The content, practical training, and
length of the diploma course are variable. In the past, the course has
generally included subjects related to community development, in addition
to agriculture. These courses need more emphasis on practical training in
crop and livestock production, and in extension methods (including T&V).
Several states have already adopted such courses. In view of the sudden
requirement of VEW, this training has been reduced to six months in some
earlier projects. However, for normal replacement in future years, the
two years pre-service trainine should be restored as a long-term policy.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 9
9 93 -
8.      Induction Training.  Field assistants and other staff deployed
from other schemes as VEW should receive training on extension organiza-
tion and professional extension, including job responsibilities, mode of
work, training schedules, use of dairy, links with input support services,
etc. The course should last about four weeks and be given as staff are
deployed to work on extension.
9.      Orientation Training.  On a regular basis, all VEW would receive
training in extension methodology, the ThV system and available support
services as they start working in professional for the first time. The
training would last three days, being given by SMS and other district and
subdivision staff.
10.     Fortnightlv Trainina.  A major feature of the T&V system is train-
ing of VEW and AEO once a fortnight. This training is given by a team of
SMS and the SDAO to AEO and VEW. Each training session would have a group
of 30-40 VEW and AEO. They would meet on a regular day, once in two
weeks, to receive training from SMS and officers of thb subdivision,
supported as necessary by district SMS. Most sessions would be held where
there are facilities for practical skill teaching, viz., a farmers' field,
a seed farm, an experimental station, or a training center. Training
would cover actual farm situations most likely to arise over the next two
week period. VEW and AEO would gain practical experience of skills.
During training, VEW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems
encountered during visits. Representatives of support services such as
cooperatives, banks, input agencies, agro-service and irrigation units
would be invited to attend the sessions at a given time to ensure coor-
dination of related activities. On the intervening training day in each
two-week period, VEW would meet their AEO for review of field work and to
solve problems. Prior to each of the two agricultural sessions (kharif
and rabi), pre-season training of two to three days would cover the main
seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. This would replace one
regular one day fortnightly training and would be held at subdivision
level. The DDA, SMS and SDAO would organize and attend this session.
This training would enable discussions on crop technology development and
extension strategies and thus orient the extension program in a general
sense for the coming season.
11.     Refresher Course.  Once every five years, each VEW would par-
ticipate in a one to two month course to refresh his knowledge and skills
in crop production techniques, extension communications and other needed
topics.
12.     Special Short Courses.  Every VEW would attend annually at least
one short (three to fifteen day) course in a particular discipline or
crop. Trainers should be SMS or staff of GSTC, etc.



ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 9
-94-
13.     Promotional Training.  Selected VEW would be deputed to a degree
(B.Sc.) course to upgrade their technical knowledge, and thus to qualify
for promotion. If necessary, alternative diploma training should be
arranged.
14.     Study Tours.  Selected VEW would undertake study tours (primarily
within the state) to review items of interest to their work.
ARriculture Extension Officers (AEO)
15.     Orientation Training.  AEO would receive, upon starting to work in
professional extension, orientation training on extension methodology, the
T&V extension system and the role of the AEO. The training would be given
by subdivision and district SMS, and last five days.
16.     FortniRhtly Training.  AEO would attend all fortnightly training
sessions along with VEW. In addition to visiting each VEW in the field
once each fortnight, each AEO would conduct a mid-fortnightly review
training meeting for all the VEW of his range.
17.     Refresher Courses.  Once in every three years, AEO would par-
ticipate in a four-week course to update their technical know-how and
skills and to improve their extension methods. This course would be given
by training center or agricultural university staff.
18.     Special Short Courses.  Each year, about one-fourth of AEO would
be given specialized training for 3-15 days in particular crops and dis-
ciplines which are important to their area of operation. These courses
would be organized and given by university or research/training institute
staff.
19.     Promotional TraininR.  Selected AEO would be provided oppor-
tunities for higher training by being deputed for a two-year M.Sc. course
to serve as an incentive and facilitate their promotional chances.
20.     Study Tours.  Selected AEO would undertake study tours (in state
or out of state) to review items of interest to their work.
Subiect Matter Specialist (SMS)
21.     SMS play an important role in providing technical support and
training to VEW and AEO. There would be SMS with different kinds of
training and competence at subdivisional, district and state levels.
Selection criteria of SMS have been considered at national level and M.Sc.
(Agri.) with specialization in agronomy, plant protection or other dis-
ciplines, and preferably with two years of field experience, have been
proposed for recruitment of fresh staff.



ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 9
-95-
22.     Orientation Trainingi.  Suitable instruction would be given in
extension methodology and the T&V extension system to all newly appointed
SMS. Their specific roles would be explained to them in detail, and
special emphasis would be placed upon topics such as diagnostic techni-
ques, applied research, the economics of recommendations, and effective
training techniques. The training should last five days and be given by
senior Department of Agriculture officers, GOI and/or university staff.
23.     Inservice Training.  Each SMS would be responsible for keeping
up-to-date in his subject matter field. About one-third of his time would
be spent with research workers and in participating in applied research
and verification trials, supplemented by reading and discussions with
co-workers. SMS would also participate in monthly workshops and preseason
training.
a.  Monthly Workshops.  To provide effective fortnightly training
to VEW and AEO, SMS would be updated in their areas of
specialization and ensure that training has a practical bias.
The two-day monthly workshops held at the research station
identified in each main agroclimatic zone would be attended
by all SMS in the zone, together with SAU researchers and
headquarters SMS. The main objectives of the workshop are
to review results achieved, modify recommendations, as neces-
sary, to suit current field conditions, review findings and
progress of field trials, and to develop suggestions for FEW
and AEO training and identify areas of future research.
Instruction in special topics, such as extension methods and
plans for coordination with other line departments and support
services, would also be covered as needed.
b.  Pre-season Training.  SMS would participate in the 3-day
preseason training held at zonal level prior to the main
cropping seasons (kharif and rabi). The training would be
held at SAU or zonal research stations. Based on this ses-
sion, SMS will be required to give similar training to AEO and
VEW in their preseason training sessions.
24.     Special Short Courses.  In order to build up the professional
competence of SMS, special three or four week courses would be organized
by the SAU and other training/research institutions. In addition, SMB
would be given the opportunity to attend GOI-sponsored higher trdining in
agricultural universities and research institutions. SMS with exceptional
talent could be provided opportunities for training internationally and
for study tours. Training needs of individual SMS would be identified and
courses tailored to appropriate areas of interests.



ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 9
-96-
25.     Deputation.  The temporary exchange of SMS with SAU research and
extension personnel is especially desirable. The Director of Agriculture
in each state would meet with the SAU to identify appropriate oppor-
tunities for exchange of personnel. During the period of such exchanges,
salary, promotion and incidental expenses would generally be the respon-
sibility of the parent organization.
26.     Promotional Training.  SMS would be provided opportunities for
M.Sc. or Ph.D degrees.
Extension Supervisory and Administrative Staff
27.     In addition to training in technical fields and extension
methodology, training in administration and management would be available
to mid-level (District and Subdivision Officers) and to senior-level
extension officers (ADA/JDA).   Such training includes:
a. Orientation Training. All supervisory personnel would undergo
introductory orientation in extension methodology and profes-
sional extension. The specific roles in management and staff
supervision of each would be explained in detail.
b.  Management Trainint.  Special courses in extension and agricul-
tural management would be organized and offered on a one-time
basis to all supervising and administrative personnel..
c. Special Training. Specific programs would be organized by the
Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels after
the special needs are identified. The trainees for these
courses are likely to come from DOA, SAU, GOI and national in-
stitutes. Research staff should also receive special training
in both extension methodology and farm trials and adaptive
research, as well as in areas of their own specialization.
d. Study Tours. Selected senior officers would undertake study
tours (in India and/or overseas) to review relevant agricultural
activities.
28.     In addition to these identified training activities, senior super-
visor and administrative staff should attend, in the course of their
regular work monthly workshops, fortnightly training sessions, seasonal
training sessions and zonal vorkshops, as well as training courses
organized for each level of staff.



ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 9
- 97 -
Senior Level Officers (Non-Extension)
29.     Special extension workshops and seminars on the objectives and
operation of extension of one or two days duration would be available to
officers from other organizations, such as irrigation, CADA, credit, input
services, community development and tribal welfare. Similar orientation
may also be providea to non-officials, office bearers of local organiza-
tions and community leaders.
Unit TraininR
30.     Special courses for units such as M&E, informational services and
applied research may be organized as required, once a year.
Responsibility for Training Organization
31.     The ADA (Extension) is responsible for organizing the training of
all staff at zonal and district levels and, with the assistance of SAU
staff, Training Officers (TO) and senior SMS, for organizing short courses
for other SMS and senior staff. The DAO, in consultation with the SDAO
and district and subdivisional TO and SMS, is responsible for arranging
training at the subdivisional level.
C. Training Functions of Directorate of Extension
32.     The Extension Training Unit (ETU) of the Directorate of Extension
would continue to be responsible for providing leadership and guidance to
states in planning, implementing, coordinating and evaluating training
programs for extension workers. All state governments will identify an
officer in DOA headquarters (a senior SMS Training or Training Officer) to
coordinate training activities of DOA with SAU and DOE. In addition to
assisting states, ETU organizes All-India and regional training programs,
particularly for SMS and senior officers, at agricultural universities and
central research and training institutes.
33.     Training of extension personnel is a state responsibility, but at
GOI level, ETU would be the focal point among the states for the collec-
tion and exchange of experiences on training.  ETM  s main responsibilities
would include:
a.  Training Strategy.  To promote improved training strategy in
regular inservice programs and in special training at SAU,
research institutes and Extension Education Institutes
(EEI), workshops to help develop better understanding and
utilization of training for behavioral objectives and for
testing of performance would be conducted by ETU. These
workshops would help local coordinators prepare detailed
course objectives and learning and skill goals.



ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 9
- 98 -
b.  Extension Management Training would be developed to improve
staff skills in problem identification, field supervision and
guidance, project management, monitoring and evaluation.
c.  Planning of Training.  ETU would assist the states to develop
state extension training plans which would: (i) identify the
state extension training program goals; (ii) set priorities;
(iii) identify staffing needs and responsibilities; (iv) specify
education-training-experience needed for staff; (v) provide a
schedule to assist in orderly staff development; and (vi)
identify the role of training and academic institutions in the
development and presentation of courses.
d.  Courses for SMS.  In addition to training arranged within
individual states, the ETU would organize about 50 courses
per year in various key crops and disciplines. These courses
would continue to be identified at the annual Training Workshop
held in New Delhi.
e.  ETU would arrange for SAU, ICAR and other Indian institutions
participating in various training programs to develop appropriate
training materials and manuals.
f.  Evaluation of Training Programs.  The ETU would continue to
evaluate centrally-sponsored training programs, but more
emphasLs would be placed upon the measurement of skills and
knowledge learned, rather than the " development of awareness".
g.  Field Support.  Visit to states by ETU personnel would
emphasize the design of appropriate practical training courses.
For the first year, the emphasis should be on courses for SMS.
ETU would also assist states in the design and coordination of
training programs for DAO, SDAO, AEO and VEW.
h.  International Support.  The ETU would arrange for int*ernational
assistance from UNDP, World Bank, ICRISAT, IRRI, CINMYT and other
organizations in the conduct of extension training programs.
i.  International Exchanges.  The ETU would arrange visits of
consultants and others to Indian agricultural extension programs
and training visits of Indians to other countries.
j.  Study Tours.  Study tours for all categories of extension staff
are proposed to enable direct observation of technology develop-
ment and transfer in actual field situations, and to facilitate
exchange of experiences.



-'9-                                                       AM  jI
tae 9 of 9
T bla Is Trs OF TsAUIJ: FMz  ITSMl  FLVIOMZtJ
Member
Iasis of                                                         per betchi
Course       Cost Ceic -  Lidience .ra..         tocabter      latch    Pr.. - coe        Ce rt
Praservica    I_Idh.       Dew  W     Twrs.      Stet_idel    * -        In       40      1.5      Dtipee  * Sraie
(sub. matte                           Cater    Zeal                                                Moteriel Ij
Induct ios                 Deployed                             I _      IF       40      0.3
Sefreeher                  All                                    _      lm 31/   40       0.3 
(sub. uattedr
Orieetaetie   Ceme         A11       -         Sebdiv/        3 a       In      40        .3    tcaiai   Material
(Debit.)  District
PorteaLbtly                All           -       Dbdi           I di      261y/   40       1.3
Speciel                    All        Tr*.       Distie/ti     3-11 is      ly    40      0.5    flaisig  Matetiel
Caiter    iee                                               IcerelWg
M  (El 11)
Prostiesat   Redlv.        Selectiv   SA         Stataide       4 gre. Selective  k       1.0      Debelarehipe. tee
(deuce)                                                         (S.Mk.)                            and TS. Msteials
Study Trips                                      s tataida    lD is                      0.4      Debsteningmmea
leer,tce                                         Tavel. fleet 5
tripe/yr eseek
Ortietation    Conse       All         M         District       3 a       In      4        1.0     Treie  Meterial
9efreeber      1Si..       All        Trw.       StmtelZeesl   30 is    113 FT  40        6.41
(Sub.eetter)                          Caster
PFrtuihbtly    c_rse       All         -         Sebdivision   I de      241/      -       -       Caless withb IU
special        Care        AIl         Twg.     Statelt"el   315 is  I1yr    40            3.0     I  eman per 30/r
Promticnal    ledi..       Selactive, Da         Stateside      2 yr   selective ft       S.D      Dmb-iarohipe. l'e
(Ptat-strd.)                                                    Mae.!                              _s ?tw. Mateials
study Trip     151.v.      Detective             Stetaide.    10 is  Selective            1.0      Mebetetome, aS
leterstete                                       Travet,  flet
treresee                                         I tripe/yr t-6I
.121 Ag.
SMe. Dubdi..
and Dipt, 1IMS
Orteeceiss    Care         all        COItISA/   Stateidel    S is       Is       30       3.0     ?wasieg Me1trial la
Huebly         Care        all        S-eeereh   Zeel           2 is   121r       30       3.0
WMrhehap                              Iciestiet  District
-! M
Special       CLrs         Selective  et. loete  Stataide    21-30 da 1tyr        30      3.0
tFratiLsesl    laiy.       D-tective Dan         Stataide       2 yr   Selective J       10.01yw  Debslerebipe. iee,
(Pcet-rad.1                                                    (MU.)                               ad lwg. Materials
Study Tler     lSi..       Selective             Stateride,   la       Selectie            2.0     ebistes  A Travel
ltcereact                                       fleet 2 trpe/lyr ea
Oversees                                         s/lstaff
Secler Olficere:
oriesnation    C    seer   All        Col/SAD'   Stataida       3 is      is      30      2.0      Tretim  Metetiel
(Daisar Verkbehep)                   1
emsSseenc      CLars       All        NetiLeel   Statewide         de     In      30       2.0     Tteieg Material
Specie!        Leers.e    Selective Setisel   StateWide         3 da      I/nF    20       3.3     Traleite  Meteviel
teat/DAD                                                     21-N0 4s. ep. -
Sr. Officers   Sesicart   Selective SAD/J        Stat*-ide      2 i      I        20      2.0    traieg MatAsial
of ether Depte IWrkWep                                                                             2-3 eereeg
Oriatlee       Coerse      all        so Staff   stteaid-       3 de    1        20       3.0     Trsieeg Matetial
Study Tear      Rail..     S1eective             Stateside,   tO i       Selective        4.0      Debisitaem   A Travel
lutewecate.                                      Awe,t   2 triesyr a
Oversees                                         Sil0 Statf
Monitcring as
Orientatioe    Coarse      All        Denie      Stateside      3 As    Ia        30       2.3     Tteiai  Material
lE staff
Specie         Carse       All       Natienal   stateside       3-30 de  I/yr    l0        3.0     Twaia_ aerial
IeStILUI   Divieie                                           I  _n/Jwlflatft
Dr. Staff                                                    Care  St  dit.
leve  oae tat.
ieteretaa &  eares
I&  Traisieg Material' in al cama iecle_*e field trip met.
1-25 i y  & y s f   a 4-year core.
i  S-: &a-s. y1!     y3 fe7 at  2-yar  erse.
IJ  3-I  is la .2- 734       for a 2-yar  ers.



- 100 -                             ANNEX 15
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
31 Orisa Subproject, Project Preparation Report Agriculture and
Cooperation Department, Government of Orissa, Bhubanesh^ar,
January 23, 1984
32 Madhya Pradesh Subproject, Project Preparation Report,
Directorate of Agriculture, Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal, Draft Nov. 1983
B3 Rajasthan Subproject, Project Preparation Report, Directorate of
Agriculture Rajasthan Government, Jaipur, Draft Nov. 1983
B4 Directorate of Extension Subproject, Project Preparation Report,
DOE, N. Delhi, c. January 1984
Cl Project File, July 1984
Item LA HP State Subproject Summary
Item 1B HP Progress of Phase I Project (Cr. 712-IN)
Item 2A Orissa State Subproject Summary
Item 23 Orissa Progress of Phase I Project (Cr. 682-IN)
Item 3A Rajasthan State Subproject
Item 33 Rajasthan Progress of Phase I Project (Cr. 737-IN)
State Subproject Outline
Item 4   Project Cost Summaries by Component by Year
Item 5A Model Draft Memorandum of Understanding between
State Department of Agriculture and State Agricultural
University
Item 5B Memorandum of Understanding between GOMP and JNKVV
Agricultural University
Item 5C Memorandum of Understanding between COO and Orisax
University of Agriculture and Technology
Item 5D Memorandum of Understanding between GOR and Sukhadia
University
Item 6   State Subproject Outline



IBRD 17967R
;~~~~~~~~~~ . 0,,.....  . ___  
/       ,.-         '    ....
*  ~                 :d
~~~~~-.  it- A.ti                                                      I  NDI
i \ c ' p^> vtr s ~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
I J  - . .   ffi  _            NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
I.:                     }                              g                   -.  ;  -  i,  EXTENSION  PROJECT
P A   K   I   S   T   A   N   / <-      . ^ "^  .... 
PAKSTAN  /    ..&ARYNAIN                                  ....L*
/                      j\ _4                             _lUTAN C             
y     R FAJASTHAN    '    'S                                                          ,
<~ ~~~~~~-              ,         -_ -        t4        9    ME4,hA.v  w   ~AI.jPLJ
-g,                                      -   t5n biAR    ()xW BANGLADESH f
o~~~~.D'e fko - S:;  .     .->W5v                        t')0Mif i.
t \ > ~~~~~~~~e ,-R- - \ ~~~~~~~~~b U R M A
< __
_ -%~~NDHRA5
, -iD#@&PRAOESH                K               IPRA9ESn
, ~     ? -
VAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t .AAtA.,
%R AWA                                             L .N
.A.-
.~~~~~~~V   W                                                  .          a
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
AUGUST lOnA



-'S    S-X  ,l BHLND      J
-20'                                  J   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MORENA   '-,- GWA L I 0R,--  t  f
> s    s              g              ---@~~~~'ATTIA-UrrA 
SHIVPUR  \,.-CHAARU
('I                                   >    .... g[{::HA '               TIAMGA RHR      o DAMOH
R  A;; A N. ,, w >5~~~~~~~~~CHAJARPUR,        _,...................,'b
r                          .:::                      ...- - SAGeAR*~--
}    v  ---   l:a i:v;lN - HAJAPURf    2 RAG RI".~-:.:::,,-; .-,                     B         -,:-
LT  JHABUA *-   ,  --    '-~  2  D E WA 5  ,-- ~------------_dl
y ~~~0-                     SEOR                                   NARIMAHPR      r  _  -
D  4 A1
S  H   T   R   A                                                                &-~~CHHNDAR
BETULA 
~K ARCOe 
sdd   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECTLAGHA
=d_d~                                       ADHA PRDES  SUPROJCTAS--
~~ l_ _w  F_                                                                                                     ' '~IMA
c A       ^                                                                                                           w:
A/ _*_ ~-   
cg_gsior Vl                                                  lqw .4
1_~~ S r_ T_ _drA
0.-  J - 9 o                                                  :



ISADIO060
BHIND
r
r
li    MOPENA    -'GWALIOR
DATT)A-,
U  T  T  A  R                   P  R
SHIVPUR
-.e                       ?      ju"7%
RH.
<
E W.
i       G Li N A                                  CHHATARPUR
115. .  ..........
SATNA                     --- -  ---------
g
........                                                  ANNA                                     5: r Z) H
SAGAR
DAMOH                                             ..        .    .. ......... :-i.
'G A R    H   ......       ....                                                                                                          -----       --------------
.. ..............
...........
-- - --- --                                                                                                     . . .. ... ..
SHAHDOL
-- ------- ---------
-J  A     E                                            p: .................
C, r
%
SEHORE                                       NARSIMAHAPUR
M A N D L A
HOSHANGABAD
5 E 0 N I
CHHINDWARA                                                                         B I L A S P U R
BETUL
dO                                                  k:..
BALAGHAT               0
--------------- 7,-r-z
Z,
. ... ......
CO
R A I P U R                          C-3
A
D U R G
I N 0 1 A                                                                                                                     q-
0
...... AL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MADHYA PRADESH SUBPROJECT
L
B A S tA:o
mMt-, i-195                                                       f
51- c.p-,.,
L       j



INDIA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UND A RG AR H
.II NND IDA  I A                                                                           l J-S U N 
SM LANKA                                        L  P   U  R        (AAG
\  I                                 S       ABALANGIR
X < V ~~~~~~) 02.,  A  L  A  N              o    XIR f /
<;>   <      >      \       4      ) )s; ~~~~~~P H U L B  b-                - 
v  ,   >  (      .\  \                   -,<|e    \ts~~~~~~R       -,\
t z t)g\o %i L C                                                              N     A   
~~+4 s S ~~~~R  7ANIUAT    V 
ffi~~~~~~~    d      .   i'oS-<   
ci              ,(/\                             
AN HR          PR DE H_    |                         Wft-J   \
/   \  ./ g         /               /       /        E0omp",,rR56<pdp,, TWUIt



IBRD 1B061R
UNAPAP                                                --WEST BENGAL
SIJMARGAEH                                      -s
_ )  t    <<U  A  R B    A l                                                                                                J
KEONJHA                              KB.nod.
-          S-XS   A L                              P^O uN '-                          jt  F                                       WhrKRi
_.*   f.                                                           \--  p-  pJ              )                          B hPB0
G    I   Rf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L r.
'-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
'I   ~    **-..J.J                                                             ;\   X      R~-    
\    y         / !                                                                   uT        \G u  
r/ \--'                      s- _J _--
(9     n    ~PWBAI                                                                              T 
u-            5.j    ,.ohn,
/"O                                                      S --IBSJC
*Lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
D ~   ~      ~     R,.                                                                       U \.wc \-arr_on
*l   Adp... ,...c.c SoPoho
(I                                                                                                  (o'ooo..d _g  I N    D    I   A
\   _                                                          ~~~~~~~~ORISSACK  tSUBPRleOJwECT
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ._s.ro. ondontDoow r.cltr
w ~ ~~~~~~~~~~w
__  Sntq. bto.neo,
,_   ____,___,_____S                               ~~~~~~~~~0 20    10    oO    SO    I00    lZO    lAO    180
-      _f . -        S     _A -                                                             K ^
-        0 _      -.-r-..- = _ _                                     0          20          *0          d          *0         lOc
- - - -   1  _ _   _  _ _  _ S  _ t .m. m .~ w o n ~ - ~ ~ .                     .           -_________________________________________ _ _ -
MI*LES
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~a  m'                                d s
54A                                      T984=.  67
0   20   AD~ ~ ~ ~~                  ~UGS 1984



IBRD 18062E
|                        w       ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~r  ,               t
I N D I A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
RAJASTHAN  SUBPROJECT
C  25 50 75 100 '25 IoD 17 2DO                              Main Research Sta1ions
ACILQMETES         &A   Rese-c"l S1ubs'o'ons
--                                                                                      %ie_1\ ' \ Pr7ft Areos Added Under NAEP   :'
Geiow                      I              1 IPro ect Disricts Pnose
f                                 0 *   State Captol
o1_  /                              S_}  *  Districr HeadQuarters
.S__________________                                                         0   Other   To.ns
1            /    G A N G AA NAGAR                - -  - Dtstrtct Boundaries
State Boundares
Internotionol Boundares
(       \2'-
J AI  S AL M ERURL
i 0                                          RNK/PG
K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
>tt..wt \6.cH                  A <     /    P    ---   n 
---' "------P-UDA   PU    '
-2qr                                         N          ,                            I. Nr-
{_wr __s___~~~~~~~~~P A L    r                        H IL  A 
D A ~    ~     ; 
F_~~~_SS t- E X5~~4AN5W
_ -- _ # _4PP_Ut_-
-        'C rb-                                                                                 1984
AUGUST 1984






