Doc_man of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot Ne. P-3876-3N
REPORT AND RECOM  DAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERN&TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMUNT OF SDR 38.6 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
September 6, 1984
isdocment has a retricted diributio   d may be used by recipients ony in the peform_c of
rociad dutes lb eoaeb may od othrwis be disdosed W       Word Bnk ahRlration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 6, 1984)
US$1.00      - Rs U.78
Rs 1.00      m US$0.085
Rs 1 million - US$85,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 11.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIIONS
AEO       -        Agricultural L.xtension Officer(s)
DAO       -        District Agricuiti."l Officer(s)
DOE       -        Directorate of Extensin
EUAC      -        Extension Technical Advisory committee
GOI       -        Government of India
GOMP      -        Government of Madhyr. Pradesh
GOO       -        Government of Orissa
GOR       -        Government of Rajasthan
ICAR      -        Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IDA       -        International Development Association
MOA       -        Ministry of Agriculture
E&E       -        Mouitoring and Evaluation
NAEP      -        National Agricultural Extension Project
KARP      -        National Agricultural Research Project
SAU       -        State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAO      -        Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
SMS       -        Subject Matter Specialist(s)
T&V       -        Training and Visit System
VEW       -        Village Extension Worker(s)



A OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                                     CONFDENTIAL
NATIONAL GRICULTURAL EXTESBION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIUARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:          The States of Nadhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa
and the Government of India's (COI's) Ministry of
Agriculture Extension Division and Directorate of
Extension.
Amount:                 SDR 38.6 zillion  (US$39.1 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard.
Oa-lending Terms:       From GOI to the Governments of Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Orissa as part of Central assistance
to State development projects on terms and condi-
tions applicable at the time. GOI will bear the
foreign exchange riak.
Proiect DescriDtion:    The project would (i) strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system introduced in
Rajasthan, Nadhya Pradesh and Orissa under Phase I
projects; (ii) reorganize and strengthen the
Central Government-s Extension Division and
Directorate of Extension in order to increase
their ability to support more effectively State
agricultural extension programs and to perform
more effectively their coordinating and policy
guidance role throughout India; and (iii) provide
funds to assist in the financing of other projects
for extension reform, special studies and special
sub-projects, and the supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of said activities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their ofTca duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost 1l:
(MSS millions)
Local        Forei          Total
Incremental Staff                          9.5            -            9.5
Civil Works                               20.7           1.1          21.8
Vehicles and Equipment                     2.9           0.8           3.8
Incremental Operating Costs                4.3           0.1           4.4
Trainng                                    5.1            -            5.1
Subtotal                              42.5           2.0          44.5
Physical Contingencies                     2.2           0.1           2.3
Price Contingencies                        9.2           0.3
Subtotal                              53.9           2.4          56.3
Special Sub-projects Fund                  7.5           0.8           8.3
Project Preparation Fund                   0.9           0.1           1.0
Total                                 62.3           3.3          65.6
x      _-
Financinx Plan:
(MS millions)
GOI/States    IDA         Total
Madhya Pradesh (GOHP)                          5.4       7.8          13.2
Orissa         (GOO)                           7.5      10.6          18.1
Rajasthan     (GOR)                            8.2      11.7          19.9
DOE            (GOI)                           2.1       3.0           5.1
Special Subprojects
(GOl/Implementing Agency)                    3.3       5.0           8.3
Project Preparation                             -        1.0           1.0
TOTAL                                     26.5      39.1          65.6
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$1.1 million equivalent.



Estimated Disburseents 1
_s ( millio")
FY85   FY86   FY87    F88 FB      8    FY
Annual            1.6    5.5    9.5   11.1    8.5    2.9
Cumlative        1.6    7.1   16.6   27.7   36.2   39.1
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
A,kraisal Reiort: No. 4893-IN, dated August 28, 1984.
vJ According to IDA fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPUEN ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO       TION OF  HE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 0 A PROPOSED CREDIT T0 INDIA
FOR THE NATIONAL AGRUL LTRL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
Credit to India for SDR 38.6 million (US$39.1 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a national agricultural extension project in order
to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension services in several
Indian Statez 3nd the Central Government. The proceeds of the Credit would
be channeled to the State Governments concerned as part of Central assistance
to those States for developmeat projects on terms and conditions applicable
at the time. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government of
India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
750 million (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The
economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those
who own little or no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2Z
since 1950/51 - has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.31
per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from 52Z in 1950/51 to about 33% in
1981/82, while the share of industry rose from 20% to around 26Z. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic growth has been
slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per annum since
1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4Z per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Kerala Social Forestry Project
(No. P-3858-IN), dated July 11, 1984.



-2-
doubled from 10.8Z of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z in 1983/84, while the
gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5Z of GDP to 24.85 in 1983184.
Foreiga savings (balance of payments deficit on current account) have never
financed a major portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 201 vas
reached during the early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about
81 of investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of
GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3Z of GDP and averaging below
12 for the past five years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above
31 of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1Z.
5.      Before the l970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.21 per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to uid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the
volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.31 per annum for the 1970s
as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain
output. As a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial
value-added substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3) averaging 5.3Z, 3.3Z and 8.1Z, respectively, during the 1975/76
to 1978/79 period. In 1979180, however, this momentum was broken when the
worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil
prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain
production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a relatively large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks coincided with the preparation of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that aimed
at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.21 per
annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of
the second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to
1982/83), GDP growth averaged almost 52 per annum, while between the two
recovery years (from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - substan-
tially higher than India's long-term growth rate of 3.61. Continued rapid
economic growth has resulted from a development strategy which includes
higher investment levels and liberalized policies on imports, industrial
licensing, prices, and commercial borrowing. These policies, by easing
constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic comnodities, were a
determining factor in the improved performance of the economy and the
industrial sector. This overall improvement in performance, combined with a



-3-
more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices
declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83, but rose to over
9Z in 1983184, mainly due to the effect of the 1982183 drought on food
prices. Further improvements in the policy environment vill be required to
maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment without put-
ting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving inflationary
expectations.
S.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, reflecting
the uneven rainfall during the period. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy
substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6%
and 5.32, respectively. While industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81
and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in agriculture where
normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15Z and 5.5%, respectively.
The supply of power, coal, and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81,
was further expauded in 1981/82, recording growth rates of about 1OZ, 9.6%
and 12.5%, respectively. This overall improvement in the Indian economy was
halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural
production by 4Z, brought down the GDP growth rate to 1.8%, and put further
strains on the already difficult balance of payments and domestic resource
situation. The timely implementation of various economic policies relating
to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the allocation of
power to irrigation pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of
the poor monsoon. The economy recovered in 1983/84. led by a robust agricul-
tural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural production
growth in the 9Z-10Z range and industrial growth of 4.5Z. The major factors
contributing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the excel-
lent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural policies and programs, and
satisfactory performance of the coal and transport sectors. The power
sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially
in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 1OZ-12Z over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the pre-
vious peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6Z per annum!-
sufficient to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing
domestic demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for
foodgrain imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks
could arise from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks
and programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7Z due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal
plants. As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements



-4-
and constituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were
adversely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers. cement,
and coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Governmreut
recently increased incentives for higher labor and management pruductivit- in
thermal plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kos, grew by only
0.5Z in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by
about 6.51 in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks
already available this level of production was sufficient to meet the rela-
tively slow demand growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged
much more sharply had the pace of industrial growth and demand been more
rapid. It is therefore critically important that India maintain the pace of
investment in these key sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and
implement programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus
in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross
investment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the
late 1970s to an average equivalent to 2.11 of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the
large proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a
substantial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If
India is to maintain investment at about 25Z of GDP, a major effort will be
required to raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public
sector. Future increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises which would require better
utilization of capacity, more efficient operations and adequate pricing
policies. This would also allow a marginal decline in the use of foreign
savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.31 of GDP to 1.51-1.8%, to ensure a sus-
tainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.11 of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and con-
tinued to move against India during the first three years of the 19808.
Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued.
Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remit-
tances stagnated (reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East),
and payment of interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced
with severe infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of
payments, India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise
the growth rate from its historical level of 3.62 to 5.2% while adjusting the
country's external balance to the adverse price developments in the world
markets. The main elements of this strategy are export promotion, import
substitution where economically justifiable, implementation of a coherent
energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing
the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward a more liberal
import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs for higher
capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity



-5-
expansion. The program is being successfully implemented, and is leading to
substantial improvements.
13.    A positive development in India's balance of paymnets is the reduc-
tion in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import
liberalization. Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and
petroleum products, metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial
increase in "other" imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of
industrial imports and capital goods which historically have been in chronic
short supply and vhich are of critical importance to capacity utilization,
product quality, and plant modernization and expansion. A major factor in
the decline of the trade deficit vas the lover net import bill for petroleum,
vhich dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in
response to a successful oil development program that reduced import needs
and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled about US$1.5 billion in
1983/84. These structural changes in the balance of payments are to a sig-
nificant degree the result of India's development and adjustment efforts over
the past three years. It is expected that the balance of payments will
continue to be under strain for the next several years, since the adjustment
strategy will continue to require high levels of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need exter-
nal capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future,
given the low per capita income level in the country, the already high
savings rate, and the import requirement associated vith improved growth
rates. Faced with a growing need for external capital inflows and stagnation
in the availability of concessional assistance, India decided at the start of
the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the International Monetary Fund
(IHF) and commercial banks to substantial levels. In the period covering the
fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended
Fund Facility of the INF. In addition, India borrowed significant amounts on
commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and increased the use of
suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84, India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of
over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has been used for specific
development projects in the public and private sector (mostly for petroleum
exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping). India's
favorable debt service position and the nature of its borrowings, for
project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments support,
enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads. This
larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement with
the IN? has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to
less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Develooment Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -  is exten-



-6-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for
additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India alzso has a wide range of institutions capable of fostering
development and is well-endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an
extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals
(primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic
policies and reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the capability
for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where economi-
cally justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
Sixth Plan performance has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment
projected to be about 30% higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable
performance indeed. The Sixth Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be
fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public sector will fall short of
the financing requirements of planned public investment. Actual aggregate
real investment is projected to be about 7% below the original target for the
period 1980-85, private investment being 5% to lOZ higher and public invest-
ment about 20% lower in real terms than actually projected. In terms of
meeting Plan expenditure targets, the performance of the Central Government
is considerably better than that of the State Governments. The Central
Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about 80% to 90% of the
original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States' will probably
achieve only about 50% of their targets. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as
power, transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of
real investment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's
capital formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP
in 1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low.
Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a
large and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic
reports, performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through
better planning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and
capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to
expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities
like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative
advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and transportation, expan-
sion of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of
the economy will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program
has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running
well ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for



-7-
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum end production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41Z in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33Z of consumption by 1984185. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and exter-
nal balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the
past. This will require the continuation of the current development strategy
which assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline,
improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, sup-
ported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.  In the short term, a
relatively large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of pay-
ments consequences of such a growth strategy.  Rowever, an importaut element
in providing India with the capacity to adjust flesibly will be adequate
flows of concessional assistance since India is still a very poor country
with a large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure. Although India is currently in a
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels
of the past, there are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to
sacrifice growth objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or
unmanageable terms. The fact that India has been able over the past decade
to maintain a rate of growth above the long term trend, despite the ?oor
monsoons of 1979 and 1982, suggests that a more open trade policy and
expanded efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of both foreign and domestic savings, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0Z per annum than to the long-ran trend
of 3.6% per annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts
would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in
India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2%
per annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduc-
tion in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy,
reflecting larger availability of food and health services. While this is a
welcome development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-
emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and
family planning programs in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in
the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979180 level of about 232 to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government
is reviewing its population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of
a determination to retain the emphasis on the implementation of family



-8-
planing, health, education and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility
rates.
21.    Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of India  economic and
social policy. Mkore than one-third of the worlds poor live in India, and
more than 80X of the Indian poor belong to the rural bouseholds of landless
laborers and small farmers. About 51Z of the rural population and 40  of
the urbam population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions
in poertywill depend primarily c: an acceleration of economic growth,
particularly in agriculture, combined with effective iiplmntation of
poverty alleviation pregrams. India-s poverty alleviation strategy
appropriately recogthzes tat production-oriented programs, which aim at
accele-ating the overall pace of economic growth, and poverty alleviation
progrmas, tatrgetted at those least able to participate in the general growth
of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing rather than substituting for each
other. Major poverty programs operating on a nationwide basis at present
include: the Minimum Needs Program (MKP), bhe Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRID), and the National Rural Employment Program (MR ). The IIDP
and NIEF are targeted programs aimed at increasing the incomes of the poor
rapidly, either through the transfer of productive assets or direct
employment. The MKP, aims at broadening the provision of social infrastruc-
ture and basic services which enbance the humn capital of the poor and
improve living standards. These programs represent a vitally important
commitment of the Government to address the needs of the poorest. The scale
of the poverty problea in India, combined with the inherent difficulties in
xmplementing poverty programs in aty country. imply the need for continued
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAXIOIS IN INDIA
22.    Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 164 development
credits to India totalling USS5,183 million and US$12,016 willion (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,452 million has been
repaid, and DS$5,723 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1984 totalled US$1,072 million, representing an increase of about
6 percent over the same period last year. Annex LI contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of March 31, 1984.
23.    Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$32 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$17
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118 million, US$111 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A surmary statement of IFC disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm develooment dusigned to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and



-9-
seed projects. Major elements of the lending progrs- have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needa of the economy while curbing the grovth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecis which have
hampered economic grovth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of developmeat finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving
the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and fsmily planning programs, a rural
roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastruc-
ture development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and
growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with eaphasis on
improved efficiency in water couveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery
to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large
Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural
production. Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer
production and distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue
to receive support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly
increasing the domestic supply of euergy will clearly be necessary if India
is to curb the cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Exploitation of oil and gas rescources is a central element of this program,
which should be supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power
generation, and in the expansion of the transmission and distribution
networks. Industrial projects to increase the domestic production of basic
commodities, which have been in short supply and which India has a compara-
tive advantage in producing, should also receive high priority. Finally,
raising the efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure vould
mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so
that further support of the railvays and for ports development will be par-
ticularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions vithin the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
India continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to
offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.



-10-
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
ID-A. However, IDA lending to India has declined from a peak of US$1.5 billion
in 1980 to below US$1 billion since that time, mostly due to funding constraints
related to IDA 6. Lover IDA 7 replenishment and uncertainties about IDA 8,
coupled with increasing claims for IDA funding from other countries, indicate
that the amount of IDA funds available to India is likely to continue declining,
even in nominal terms, and will remain small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will have to
be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development prospects
and policies, India is judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA
assistance. A continuation of efforts already undervay to achieve growth in
productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains
self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth should result
in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of payments.
Despite recent setbacks, India's external payments position is still manageable.
The ratio of India-s debt service to the level of exports of goods and services
and receipts of current transfers was about 12.9Z in 1983184. Over the next
several years this ratio is projected to rise to around 20% and remain around
that level through 1995196. As of March 31, 1984, outstanding loans to India
held by the Bank totalled US$3,884 million, of which US$2,021 million remain to
be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,863 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62Z, 33Z and 37Z, respectively, in 1983/84.
On March 31, 1984, India-s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the bauk GroupEs share was
US$9.6 billion or 36Z (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBID's US$1.8 billion). In
1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN INDIA
Agriculture
29.       A major objective of agricultural policy in India during the past 15
years has been to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to increase farm
incomes in an equitable manner. Marked progress has been made: there has been
a remarkable increase in foodgrain production in recent years with India attain-
ing self-sufficiency, although a shortage of edible oils persists.
Nevertheless, continuing efforts to improve agricultural productivity are essen-
tial to meet the increase in demand for food for a population which is growing
at 2.2% per year. In addition, the rate of yield increases has been falling and
parts of the country sometimes show little growth in agricultural production.
In addition, a large part of the rural population can neither produce nor pur-
chase what it needs. The projections of demand for foodgrain by the last year
of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1990) call for foodgrain production of 168-170
million tons annually compared with production of about 150 million tons in



-11-
1983/84-an annual growth of about 3% compared with the growth rate over the
last fifteen years of about 2.5Z per year.
30.       Nearly 90Z of the recent increases in food production has come from
vheat and rice, predominantly in irrigated areas. Less impressive results are
expected in the future because cultivated areas benefitting from high-yielding
technology are beginning to experience problems not confronted hitherto, includ-
ing increasing pests and disease and micro-nutrient deficiencies, demanding even
more sophisticated technology. Moreover, most of the future increase in
foodgrain production will have to come from rainfed regions, vhich are expected
to constitute 60% of the area under cultivation, even after the nation's irriga-
tion potential has been fully developed. Hence, greater problems both in
developing the improved technology needed for heterogenous agro-climatic condi-
tions and in transferring this knowledge to the farmers of these regions can be
anticipated.
31.       Therefore, the future pattern of agricultural development in India
points to the crucial role which improved agricultural extension and research
will have to play in helping the country sustain self-sufficiency in foodgrains.
The improvement of agricultural extension remains a relatively low-cost but
major means of increasing agricultural productivity, of msking more effective
use of past investments in infrastructure and of reaching all farmers, espe-
cially smaller ones.
Agricultural Extension
32.       Soon after independence in 1947, GOI began sponsoring a number of
programs designed to meet the need for more efff_-ive, country-wide agricultural
development, but they mostly met the needs of larger farmers. In order to
achieve a more broadly based increase in agricultural output and in response to
changing rural conditions, GOI, with IDA assistance, introduced a different
approach through the training and visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension.
T&V aimed at increasing the productivity on farms and the income of farmers by
simultaneously addressing constraints to the transfer of new agricultural
technology, disseminating the results of research and obtaining feedback on
actual farm problems. It did so by providing farmers, on a regular and sys-
tematic basis, with up-to-date advice on proven farming practices best suited to
their specific conditions. These objectives were accomplished by a regular
system of training and visits by field staff supported by professional advice
from state-level institutions.
33.       Organizationally, the system has sought to establish a single line of
command from the State Director of Agriculture to the Village Extension Worker
(VEW) and merged the VEWs and all agricultural field staff into a unified exten-
sion service, employed exclusively on agricultural extension. Between 700 and
800 families were served by a VEW, working with 8 to 10 contact farmers.
Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) each supervise about eight VEWs, working
with them during field visits. Sub-divisional staff include a Sub-divisional
Agricultural Officer (SDAO) (with an Assistant SDAO in larger units) to ensure
satisfactory supervision, training and guidance over 6 to 8 AEOs. To strengthen
technical support and training, a team of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) at
sub-divisional level impart training to VEWs in agronomy, plant protection and
training. At district level, a District Agricultural Officer (DAO) supervises
the work of sub-divisional staff.



-12-
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension
34.       Bank Group-assisted projects have introduced the T&V system of
agricultural extension into 13 Indian States. 1/ Hovever, introduction of the
ThV system has not been easy. The shift from a system based on multi-purpose
functionaries to a system of professional extension carried out by single-
purpose extension workers involves a major administrative and conceptual reform
which inevitably encounters bureaucratic, political and logistical hurdles. The
new system also calls for major attitudinal changes on the part of farmers and
all concerned Government officials. These factors have given rise to a number
of problems which have been commonly experienced in agricultural extension
projects financed by the Bank Group in India, especially during the early years
of implementation: involvement of extension staff in non-extension activities;
insufficient research-generated technology; poor feedback from field to research
institutions; weak inter-ninisterial and inter-departmental coordination; and
poor monitoring and evaluation. The continuing involvement of extension staff
in non-extension activities and the problems concerning the technology being
extended to farmers, which are the most intransigent constraints, are to be
given special attention under the proposed project.
35.       Indicators of the impact of completed five-year, IDA-supported
projects in three of the States which are included in the proposed project are
favorable. In Orissa, a major advance in rice productivity appears to have
occurred. This increase would also appear to have been the trigger for diver-
sification into other crops. Fertilizer consumption has increased by 33Z during
project implementation while gross cropped area increased by 15X. Similarly,
significant achievements have been made in Madhya Pradesh under two projects in
establishing a structure on which further improvements can be built. Evidence
also indicates high rates of adoption of some practices and the overwhelming
importance of extension staff as the source of technical knowledge among
farmers. In Rajahthan, significant qualitative and quantitative improvements
have been made in the extension service enabling foodgrain production to be more
or less sustained during periods of drought. There is also evidence of a sig-
nificant lift in crop yields from 1980-81 onwards compared with pre-project
levels. A'though it is difficult to ascertain and quantify which of these
improvements are attributable to extension, it is not unreasonable to expect
that some of them are presumed to have resulted from improved extension services
and from closer links between extension and field-based research activities.
11 The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1, 1977);
the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN,
June 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 690-IN, June 1, 1977); the Assam Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 728-IN, June 30, 1977); the Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 737-IN, November 14, 1977); the Bihar Agricultural
Extension and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978); the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN, February 16, 1979); the Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN, June 25, 1980); the Maharashtra
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN, May 7, 1981); the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN, May 7, 1981); the Second Madhya
Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1138-IN, May 7, 1981); and the
Andbra Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1219-IN, May 5, 1982).



-13-
36.       Overall, the Bank Group's experience vith improving extension in India
has been positive. Beginning in 1977, the new system was introduced in several
States; there is groving evidence of its favorable impact and it has received
wide support from the farming coumunity and State Departments of Agriculture.
Experience also shows that the system adopted for technology transfer is fun-
damentally sound and that the impact on production, even in the short term, can
be substantial. In several States, the extension service is able to identify
constraints at farm level and identify the agency responsible for their
alleviation, either within its own operations or in other support services. It
is also exerting considerable pressure on the research support network to re-
orient its research priorities to meet the needs of the farmers. Hence, it is
intended that the Bank Group continue supporting the introduction of the T&V
system of extension in those States which currently operate a different system
but which wish to change. Moreover, since extension reorganization is institu-
tionally immature in many States which have accepted the T&V system, it is
essential that the technical and supervisory support of the Bank be sustained.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the States of Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Orissa, and GOI. The project was appraised in December, 1983. A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - National Agricultural Extension
Project" (No. 4983-IN, dated August 28, 1984) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
August 1984. The Governments of India, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. Prithvi Singh of the
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale and Obiectives
38.     Agriculture is a State responsibility under the Indian Constitution,
which means that States are responsible for identifying and ilaplementing invest-
ments to improve agricultural performance.  However, the Government of India is
considering making agricultural extension subject to Central Government sponsor-
ship upon commencement of the Seventh Five-Year Plan in 1985/86. Under such an
arrangement, Central Government funds would flow directly to States to cover a
substantial portion of investment costs, while the States are expected to con-
form to certain agreed criteria associated with implementation. Such an arran-
gement would therefore constitute an enhanced incentive for States to continue
to implement the T&V system of agricultural extension, and would entail the
creation of a Central apex institution for financing extension. Until this
change can be brought about, the proposed project would represent an inter-
mediate step toward setting up a national funding umbrella for improvement of
extension institutions and services at the State level. Under the proposed
project, IDA support for State extension development would be conducted under
arrangements made directly with the State Government concerned while, at the
same time, the proposed project would help to bring about the reorganization and
strengthening of the relevant Central Government organization to enable it to
perform more effectively its present coordinating and policy guidance role and,
in time, to enable it to assume greater responsibility for helping states to
prepare future extension projects and to appraise, supervise and evaluate them.
Extension is not yet so firmly established in any state that it can be
considered self-sustaining. In addition, more attention needs to be given at



-14-
both State and central levels to monitoring and evaluating the impact of exten-
sion activities. Given the extent of administrative and attitudinal change
being sought, present efforts need to be intensified. Further strengthening and
deepening of the extension effort is required. Continued investment through the
proposed project would take advantage of the earlier projects, and progress in
implementing second phase activities are expected to improve as the various
difficulties experienced in the past are overcome. The project would also
endeavor to strengthen further the linkage between extension and research.
IDA's continued involvement would provide the independent encouragement and
guidance needed for State and Central efforts in implementing and maintaining
extension reform in the face of considerable political and administrative dif-
ficulties inherent in the task. Without continued IDA support, extension reform
is less likely to have the desired long-term impact.
39.     The project is designed to improve the agricultural extension systems in
three States and thus help contribute to increasing the level of agricultural
production in those three States, and to improve the capabilities of the Central
Government to support agricultural extension activities nationvide. In Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa (Map 17967R attached to show the locations of each
State), the project will strengthen and further develop the reformed agricul-
tural extension systems introduced in those States under Phase I projects which
have now been completed. In addition, support will be provided for reorganizing
and strengthening the Directorate of Extension (DOE) in the Central Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) to enable it to carry out more effectively its coordinating
and policy guidance role and to provide assistance to the States in the design
and implementation of their agricultural extension activities. Lastly, two
funds will be established under the project: (i) to provide financing for
States already receiving IDA support for short-term innovative sub-projects to
strengthen special aspects of agricultural extension; and (ii) to provide DOE
and the participating States with funds for the preparation of future State
sub-projects, sector studies or related activities which would assist the
implementation of this and other IDA-supported agricultural extension projects
(paras 53-55 below).
40.       The project seeks to achieve several objectives:
(i) Institutional Development. The project provides support for expand-
ing and strengthening the Extension Division and the DOE in the Central MOA to
improve their abilities to assist the States with their agricultural extension
activities, and to undertake enhanced policy analysis, project development, and
the coordination of inter-State activities, and over time, to assume respon-
sibility for assisting the States in the design, implementation and monitoring
of their extension projects and to provide policy guidance and support to the
States.
(ii) Administrative Consolidation. While the T&V extension system has
been successfully introduced in participating States, its benefits can be fur-
ther increased. The project aims to consolidate the administrative changes
introduced during Phase T projects and to sustain the commitment among decision-
makers and extension staff in the participating States to a full acceptance and
improved effectiveness of T&V extension. The project thus provides an important
incentive for ensuring the continuation of extension reform in the Phase II
States.



-15-
(iii) Expanded Coverage. Experience gained thus far from existing State
projects has identified the need for more specialized extension support in order
to meet the needs of all farmers, to provide more relevant and usable
recomendations, and thus to realize the potential production increases vhich
could be achieved through expanded coverage. The project is designed to address
this need by broadening the technical subjects covered under agricultural exten-
sion to include, inter-alia, land use, soil management, water management,
drainage, horticulture and farm forestry. The project will also expand exten-
sion services into new agricultural areas not previously included under the
Phase I projects.
(iv) Oualitv Improvement.  The project will seek to ensure improvements
in the quality of extension services at the State and Central level. Special
emphasis will be placed on expanded and improved training programs to address
the additional technical subjects to be covered. Attention will also be focused
on developing the ability of the DOE to guide the States in such areas as
improving the roles of the SMS, AEO and contact farmer, establishing and con-
sidering formal links with research, and improving field trials and adaptive
research in order to raise the quality of technical advice.
'v) Extension/Research Linkages. Although research is providing
increasingly effective support to extension, improvements are needed in adaptive
research and field trials related to actual farming concitions, and in better
communication between extension and research staff on farmer needs and research
priorities. The project will aim to improve researchlextension linkages by
ensuring farmer and extension staff participation in the identification of
research programs and by encouraging the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs)
to adopt research strategies designed for differing farm situations. At the
Central level, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) staff will
participate in the Extension Technical Advisory Committees, to be established
under the project, and join regular extension field visits to review actual
farming conditions and activities.
41.       State Components.  The basic approach to strengthening of agricultural
extension services is common to all participating States. However, specific
State requirements vary on account of differing levels of agricultural
development, administrative arrangements, agro-ecological conditions, population
densities and communications. The proposed project will build on the changes in
extension services introduced under the Phase I projects by providing additional
and more specialized staff, additional infrastructural facilities, expanded
training programs, and enhanced monitoring and evaluation capabilities.
42.       To enable participation in the proposed project, the three project
States have made adequate budgetary provisions for first year project costs and
have confirmed that the project will be included in the Seventh Five-Year Plan
with sufficient funds to cover all project costs. The States have utilized all
Phase I Credit proceeds or have made satisfactory arrangements for the disposal
of the balance of funds. In addition, they have made arrangements with their
State Agricultural Universities regarding their roles in project implementation.
Finally, they have made satisfactory progress towards the submission of comple-
tion reports covering Phase I investments. The individual elements of the
project components are summarized below.



-16-
Proiect Description - Madhva Pradesh. Raiasthan. and Orissa
43.       Incremental Staff Requirements.  Beyond the staffing levels required
under the Phase I projects, each State will require additional field staff,
supervisory personnel, and subject matter specialists (SMSs) to meet the needs
of broader coverage and increased specialization under the proposed project.
To provide the broader technical coverage planned under the project, additional
SMSs will be required to handle new technologies, such as water and watershed
management and development of tribal areas in Madhya Pradesh, and dry-land
farming, horticulture and plant protection in Orissa. In addition, lower ratios
of farm families to VEWs are justified in certain cases, such as newly irrigated
areas requiring more intensive coverage. Incremental staffing requirements vary
among the States. In each, incremental staff positions created under the
project would be filled in accordance with schedules agreed with IDA
(Section 2.09, draft Project Agreement). Furthermore, all extension staff under
the project would be used exclusively for agricultural extension activities; the
emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects of staff assigned to the exten-
sion service would not be adversely affected as a result of such assignment
(Section 2.07, draft Project Agreement). Moreover, by September 30, 1986, each
project State would review project execution in consultation with IDA, espe-
cially the adequacy of field staff arrangements, and increase the staff and
facilities deployed to the extent found necessary by the review (Section 2.10,
draft Project Agreement).
44.       Infrastructure Facilities
(a) Buildings. The availability of appropriate housing within the
field workers' areas of operation is critical to effective extension. Low-cost
housing will be provided to meet these needs. The project will also provide for
adequate additional office buildings and training facilities in each State.
(b) Transport. Effective field extension is based on a system of
regular and frequent farm visits by field staff. Adequate transport is essen-
tial in order to maintain fixed visit schedules, and to enable supervisory staff
to reach the field easily and frequest1y.  While transport has been provided
under the Phase I projects, additional vehicles, mainly motorcycles, mopeds and
bicycles, will be provided on a loan-purchase basis under satisfactory terms to
meet project needs and to ens_.re their use by field staff. Accordingly, the
project States would provide staff with credit for the purchase of vehicles and
financial incentives, including appropriate allowances, to encourage their
optimum use (Section 2.08, draft Project Agreement).
(c) Equipment. To meet the needs of expanded extension activities
and increased training, the project will provide funds for the incremental costs
of office equipment and furniture, and fcr audio-visual aids to support exten-
sion operations.
45.       Training.  Given the increased sophistication and specialization of
extension services, the training of extension staff at all levels will continue
to be important. In addition to further development of existing training
activities, new courses would be developed to cover new areas of specialization,
e.g. watershed management and soil conservation. Training in monitoring and
evaluation and extension management will be added which should improve extension
implementation and supervision. Programs currently being followed in the



-17-
project States would be continued under the project and would be extended to new
districts in Rajasthan.
46.       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  In Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, M&E
units established in State DOAs under the Phase I projects will be strengthened
under the proposed project. In Madhya Pradesh, training of M&E staff will be
undertaken, while in Rajasthan, the M&E unit established under the first
project, will be strengthened by the recruitment of a Joint Director of
Agriculture and supporting staff. In Orissa, under this project, an M&E unit
will be established in the DOA under a Joint Director of Agriculture.
47.       Operating Costs. The project will provide funds for incremental
operating expenses to cover the costs of publicity, training and demonstration
materials, housing and travel allowances and vehicle operation.
Strengthening of the Extension Division and DOE
48.       In order to augment GOI's ability to assist the States in their
agricultural extension activities, and to improve the operations of the DOE, the
project would strengthen both the Extension Division of the MOA and the
Directorate of Extension (a subordinate office of MDA, responsible to the
Extension Division). The Extension Division of the MDA is the organization
administratively responsible for dealing with State DOAs while its DOE provides
both technical guidance to administrators and to State DOAs.
49.       Extension Division of MOA.  Under the proposed project, the core
administrative staff of the Extension Division would be responsible for the
administrative, organizational, planning and logistical aspects of extension
activities, as well as for relationships with State Governments. A multi-
disciplinary team would be organized for each State under the T&V system of
extension with representatives from the Extension Division, the Directorate, and
up to two outside experts drawn from either the GOI or State agriculture
departments, extension services, or SAUs.  These teams will visit each State
at least twice annually to undertake field investigations, attend workshops and
training sessions, and meet with university experts and State Government
officials. Their reports will be used by the Extension Division's core staff,
and by DOE for monitoring and evaluation and other activities.
50.       Directorate of Extension.  The DOE is presently comprised of four
units-Administration, Farm Information, Extension Training and Field Extension.
Under the proposed project, these four units of DOE would be further
strengthened. The bulk of the training responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion falls on the State Governments, with GOI's responsibility being limited to
helping to organize the training needs that normally cannot be met by State
institutes and SAUs. This training is normally at institutes that are the
direct responsibility of GOI, and for these DOE has an important role in
directly organizing the training; in others, such as ICAR institutes and SAUs,
its role is largely confined to providing liaison and coordination between the
institutes and the States.
51.       DOE's Extension Training Unit would continue to assist States to plan,
conduct and evaluate training programs for extension staff and it would be
strengthened to enable it to execute this role satisfactorily. The Field
Extension Unit would also be strengthened to enable it to assist the States in
the identification and preparation of Phase II extension projects, monitoring



-18-
and evaluation of existing projects and in processing requests for special
sub-projects. The Farm Information Unit, which provides guidance to State
extension services in the production of audio-visual communication and teaching
aids, will also be suitably strengthened under the project.
52.       Phvsical Consolidation.  At present, DOE offices are situated in four
different locations. The proposed project would provide for a new building to
house the entire DOE staff, together with necessary support facilities, to be
built on the campus of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute.
53.       Special Sub-proiects Components.  A US$5 million fund would be estab-
lished under the project to finance a portion of the costs of special short-term
sub-projects prepared by States receiving IDA support for agricultural extension
for activities specifically required to strengthen certain aspects of agricuil-
tural extension. Special sub-projects will generally be (i) those which seek to
strengthen or augment a particular aspect of the extension system across States
or at the national level; and (ii) those which are State-specific and intended
to strengthen selective aspects of that extension system. Among the former, DOE
has already identified a specialized training project for SES at selected SAUs
(estimated cost Rs 50 million), an extension managers training project
(estimated cost Rs 5 million) and an agricultural communications improvement
project (estimated first phase cost Rs 10 million). Under the second category,
the States are preparing projects in specialized areas where support is needed
for extension activities. While most of these will be fully prepared by
December 1984, two sub-projects for financing from the fund will be ready for
appraisal within two months. Three other projects (estimated to cost US$3-$3.5
million equivalent) to assist M&E and to improve agricultural statistics are
being prepared with IDA assistance and could be ready for financing soon.
54.       Special sub-projects would be short-term in duration and generally
small in size. Appraisal of special sub-projects would be carried out by DOE to
determine technical feasibility and submitted to a Departmental Sanctioning
Committee in the Central MOA or to the Expenditure Finance Committee (depending
on size - see para 58 below) for final approval. Given that DOE has no previous
experience in carrying out such appraisals, for the first four applications
received, appraisal would be by a joint IDA/DOE team. Thereafter, respon-
sibility for appraisal of sub-projects would be with DOE, subject to final
review and approval by IDA.
55.       Fund for Special Studies.  The project would provide for a discretion-
ary fund of US$1 million for financing of consultants or other forms of assis-
tance to the Extension Division and DOE and the States for the preparation of
future State sub-projects, project completion reports, sector studies or related
activities which would assist project implementation.
Proiect Organization and Implementation
56.       The MOA in the Central Government will have overall responsibility for
implementation of the proposed project. The respective State Governments in the
case of extension programs, or implementing agencies in the case of special
sub-projects, will have primary responsibility for implementation, while the DOE
will have primary responsibility for supervision of all sub-projects under
arrangements acceptable to IDA.



-19-
57.       At the Central level, an Extension Technical Advisory Committee (ETAC)
would be established as an inter-disciplinary committee generally responsible
for overseeing project implementation, for technical and policy guidance of
extension strategy on a nationwide baei.s, and for coordination with related GOI
departments and other institutions. ETAC would have 12 to 15 members, with the
Joint Secretary, Agriculture (Extension Commissioner) as Chairman, and comprised
of representatives from the MOA, the Ministry of Finance, the Planning
Commission, the Indian Council for Agricultural Research, State Agricultural
Departments and Universities. In view of its size, appropriate sub-committees
would be organized to deal with particular subjects. ETAC would be established
by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.02, draft Credit Agreement).
58.       Confirmation of the eligibility of the implementing agency and of the
approval of appraised special sub-projects for financing under the proposed
project would be granted by one of two existing GOI committees as follows:
(i) a Departmental Sanctioning Committee consisting of the Secretary, MOA (as
Chairman), Financial Advisor, MOA and representatives of the Department of
Expenditure (Ministry of Finance) and of the Planning Commission, would approve
sub-projects estimated to cost up to Rs 20 million; and (ii) an Expenditure
Finance Committee consisting of the Secretary, Expenditure in the Ministry of
Finance (as Chairman), the Secretary, MOA and a representative of the Planning
Commission, would approve sub-projects estimated to cost over Rs 20 million.
59.       In the three Phase II States, under the overall guidance of the
Director of Agriculture, an Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) would
be responsible for the day-to-day administration and control of the extension
program, supported by the administrative machinery of the Department.
Coordination among extension, research and allied agencies (input supply,
finance, credit, irrigation and the SAU, etc.) will be maintained through a
series of inter-disciplinary committees at State, zonal and district levels, as
well as through informal contacts, exchange of staff, workshops, training cour-
ses and collaboration in field testing programs. Programs of research and
extension cooperation will be reviewed, priorities determined and recommenda-
tions formulated for adoption in the next season.
60.       DOE would undertake comprehensive semi-annual field reviews of each
State and special sub-project, and, together with the States, be responsible for
the preparation of semi-annual progress reports, in a format approved by IDA at
negotiations. DOE would submit to IDA these semi-annual progress reports each
June and December, giving for each sub-project a summary of activities under-
taken during the prior six-month period, in accordance with the agreed format
(Section 3.06, draft Credit Agreement). DOE would also be responsible for
preparation of an annual work plan. The States and DOE would also prepare
completion reports for their respective sub-projects (Section 2.05(d), draft
Project Agreement and Section 3.05(d), draft Credit Agreement).
Monitorina and Evaluation
61.       While continuous monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an integral part
of all ongoing IDA-assisted extension projects in India, participating States
have been slow in establishing M&E units and in collecting and analyzing
appropriate data. Recognizing this shortcoming, IDA developed, in 1981/82, an
operational manual designed specifically to strengthen M&E of T&V extension
projects. Nevertheless, the quality and relevance of much of the M&E work being



-20-
done has remained sub-standard as many State M&E units continue to suffer from
constraints in staffing and other resources.
62.       Under the proposed project, monitoring, reporting and analysis of
physical and financial inputs would be the responsibility of each State
Department of Agriculture. States would undertake monitoring and evaluation of
the project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and the summaries
of results would be forwarded to IDA (through DOE) at least annually
(Section 2.06, draft Project Agreement).
63.       The DOE component and special sub-projects would be monitored by DOE
or by a unit within the implementing agency specified during sub-project
appraisal. In addition, the DOEBs Field Extension Unit will provide technical
guidance to State M&E cells, and will collect, coordinate and analyze the M&E
reports from all IDA-assisted States and forward them to IDA at the prescribed
intervals.
Proiect Costs and Financing
64.       The total project cost is estimated at US$65.6 million, of which
US$3.3 million represents estimated foreign exchange costs. Physical contingen-
cies of 10 have been applied to civil works, equipment, training and office and
vehicle operating costs. Price contingencies have been applied based on
estimated inflation rates in India during the project period (local prices at
8% for 1984/85, 7% for 1985/86 - 1987/88, and 6% thereafter; foreign prices at
3.3% for 1984/85, 8% for 1985/86 and 9Z for 1986/87 onwards).
65.       The proposed IDA credit of US$39.1 million equivalent would finance
about 60% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and would cover all
foreign exchange costs. The balance of funds for the project would come from
the participating State Governments and GOI. For Central Government components,
credit proceeds would be made available to the Ministry of Agriculture; for the
State sub-projects, GOI would channel channel credit funds to the Governments of
Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa, in accordance with standard terms and
conditions for Central Government development assistance to the States.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Civil works contracts (US$28.8 million) .J would be small and widely
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and therefore would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with existing State
Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Where contractors are not
forthcoming to execute the works, small civil works estimated to cost $20,000
equivalent or less may be carried out through force account. Vehicles of
various types (US$3.4 million) and equipment items (US$1.0 million) would be
required under the project. These would be purchased in small quantities over
several years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. To ensure adequate
maintenance and the availability of spare parts, they would be procured by
local competitive bidding under the State Governments' normal procurement
1/ All figures in this paragraph are inclusive of contingencies which amount
to US$11.8 million.



-21-
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. All contracts for civil works,
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be subject to
IDA review. Orders for the purchase of minor equipment, furniture and supplies
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local
bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000, when they would
be purchased by prudent shopping through normal commercial channels. The
balance of project costs (US$23.1 million) for the three States and the NOA/DOE
sub-projects would consist of training (US$6.5 million), incremental salaries
and allowances (US$11.5 million), incremental operating expenditures for offices
and vehicles (US$5.1 million), all of which would not involve procurement.
67.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed jj against the cost of
civil works (60X of expenditures in Rajasthan, 50% in Madhya Pradesh and Orissa,
and 40% in DOE); vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials (100X of foreign
expenditures, 80% of local expenditures by States and 50% of local expenditures
by DOE); training and research (foreign and local State expenditures 100%; 100Z
foreign and 70X of local expenditures by DOE); incremental salaries and
allowances */ States 70%, DOE 60%; special sub-projects (60Z); and expenditures
against the fund for speciai studies (100%). Disbursements against staff costs,
vehicle loans, training, payments less than Rs 300,000 under civil works
contracts, payments under Rs 150,000 for locally-procured vehicles and
equipment, and expenditures under the fund for special studies would be made
against certified statements of expenditure. These statements of expenditure
would be audited at least annually and the audit report submitted to IDA not
later than nine months after the end of such year (Section 4.01, draft Credit
Agreement). Additional supporting application for these expenditures would be
retained by State Governments and the DOE for inspection in the course of
project review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all other items
would be fully documented. Copies of all State disbursement applications will
be provided to DOE prior to submission to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to (i)
increase crop production and thus farm incomes in the three project States by
providing improved extension services to farmers; and (ii) increase the MOA
Extension Division and the Directorate of Extension's ability to provide con-
tinuing technical and administrative assistance to these and other States seek-
ing to reform and strengthen their agricultural extension services.
69.       Attributing a precise level cf economic benefits to this type of
project is difficult since it is impossible to determine what proportion of the
benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to extension alone
1/ For the States of Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, disbursements
under all categories, except training and research, would be confined to
incremental expenditures above the SAR targets established under the Phase I
projects.
2/ Actual disbursements against this category in the States would be made
against a portion of total eligible staff costs (3.7% for Madhya Pradesh,
4.4% for Orissa and 18.3% for Rajasthan) as a basis for estimating 70Z of
incremental salaries and allowances.



-22-
and what is due to such other factors as past research efforts, *'dditional
purchased inputs or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is generally the
combination of all theme, with extension acting as the ^atalyst that brings the
desired benefits.  Since the incremental cost of the project _s very low per
hectare and per farm family, even small production ircreases would generate high
rates of return. In areas vhere the reformed extension system has been in
operation for some time, including the three States under tb2 proposed project,
yield increases are indicated which would give a rate of return well in excess
of the opportunity cost of capital (12Z).
70.       In late 1981, a study undertaken by the Bank Group in collaboratiou
with Haryana Agricultural University concluded that the T&V extension system is
more successful in delivering information to farmers than the traditional exten-
sion system, achieving significantly higher direct contact with farmers and that
rates of knowledge diffusion for all farming practices were faster than com-
parable rates under the former systen. Moreover, there is cleAr eridence from
areas where the T&V system is well established that it is exerting considerable
pressure on other support services, particularly research and input services, to
improve performance in parallel with extension, which underscores the important
lead effect of a strong extension service.
71.       As mentioned above, however, maintenance of a reformed agricultural
extension system is not achieved without difficulty. Direct IDA involvement in
the project would decrease the risk that a single-line, single-purpose extension
service will be used for non-extension functions, and that staff would be trans-
ferred to other activities. Although extension will always be vulnerable to
outside pressures, there is increasing recognition that its primary function
must be technical and that it cannot substitute for weaknesses in other support
services. Nevertheless, the pressure for non-technical involvement of extension
staff is likely to continue. IDA participation has been and is expected to
continue to be especially useful in resisting these pressures.
72.       To develop professional cadres and give technical staff opportunities
for promotion within their field of expertise is difficult, although needed to
develop higher professional standards and to encourage staff to remain within
their specialities. The training which would be involved, with increased
specialization and improvement of extension services, would be an enormous task.
Appropriate selection for training and cadre development would continue to be
sought through the proposed project, as well as through supervision of on-going
projects.
73.       A number of general administrative constraints and policy problems
frequently encountered in current extension projects are also likely to impede
development of extension and will require continuing attention of GOI and IDA.
Among these problems are promotion by seniority, frequent transfers, changes of
discipline and failure to implement objective selection criteria for training.
74.       Perhaps the most critical risk in the proposed project is whether the
central entity being developed in MOA to support extension can supplement and
eventually take over much of the responsibility now resting with IDA to advise
and assist States with extension reform and development. While the proposed
project will improve the center-s ability to assume its role, IDA will have to
work directly with the States during the transition.



-23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the States
of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Orissa and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section II of
Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMEDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
September 6, 1984



AMEX I
Page 1 of 5
T AB LE 3L
In=A                  - SOCXAL INDIcAmTRs. D SnUe
INDIA                              R         GfE3 U GS (UEIGHZED AERAGES) 
Q#JST 3E'o I? ESETIAE) lb
UJOfb  M'MW        lOW                  IDDLE DIC
,60i    IS7O!tk    ESTIMI2N         ASNM 6 ?ACWC          ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AM  (<     D SQ. RN)
TOTAL                               3237.6    3217.6     32Z7.6              _
AUXCULTURAL                         1763.5    17U0 5     18312.3
Cw PM  ca1 CO$)                         60.0      100.0      260.0           275.6                   1091.2
(XIUORM5 OF OXL EtXVAZEbT)           79.0      113.0      160             27.0                     567.3
13WM  -M VL SICSBIES
POIULAT1OUJIID-IE.CARZNM )    636869.0  57569.0   716935.0
UBN POPULATIM  CT OF TOOAL)          18.0       19.6       26.1            21.7                     36.7
POPULATIOP JCTIS
POPULATION IS MR 2000 (KL)                              996 .
SMl(TImE  POPULATION (KILL)                            1707.2
PoPULATIO  mmNxm D1.7s
POPMlATIC ONMrff
PEt sq. Q.                         1323      166.6      213.6           166.6                    61.9
Pt SQ. QL ACUL LAW                246.6      307.5      337.1           365.5                   1735.1
POPGATIJ AGE STRUCZ  CE)
0-1C us                            40.9      42.7       39.3            35.8                     39.0
15.4  1RS                          56.5       56.2       57.6            5M_8                     57.6
65 ANID A                          4.6        3.1        3.1             *.3                      3.3
OLATIO  GlOS RATE C2)
TUOL                                 L3        Z.3       ZZ              L9                       2.3
mAW                                 2.5        3_3        3.9             4.1                      6.3
amU   BIRUT BAE (PEU TS)             47-7       41.4       3.2             27.7                     3QLI
cam    DEAIR aTE (P  TomsS)          23.8       17.8       1Z.7            10.1                     9.5
GRan    REPOiOCrION RLTE              2.9        2.1        2.2             L8                       2.0
FAILT PLANSI=
ACCEPTORS .AuAL (TRUS)             66.0    3732.0      6826.0
SS C(: OF MABRtED MM)                __       11.7       2M0               __                     52.7
NDX OF FOOD  00. P  CAPrTA
(1969-71-00)                         98.0      102.0      IOLt0           112.3                    123.0
Put CAPI SUPPLt OF
CALORXES (: OF uEw tRasEwS)        96.0       9L.0       96.0            97.7                    116.6
PROTEIS (GRJI PFM DAT)             56.0       50.0       46.0            56w.                     57.0
oF urM  ANIMAL AD PULSE           17.0      15.0        13.0 /c         14.9                    16.1
aCU   (ACSz  1-) DAIN RATE           26.2       20.7        1.0             9.8                      7.2
LIE  EcT. AT B*I (TEAM)              42.5       67.5       56.6            60.0                     60.4
WAIrr amur. RATE (P  TRt S)         165.0      139.0       9.0             33.8                     66.3
ACMSS TO SAFE WATER (WOP)
TL                                    -.      17.0       33.0 Id         32.9                     37.0
Uom                                           60.0       33.0 7d         70.9                     56.3
RURAL                                __        6.0       20m0 T          22.1                     26.4
ACS TO ECE  DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..       18.0        M0O e          I3 1                    41.3
ORBA                                 _.       M50        87.0 7;         72.8                     47.4
RURAL                                 -        1_0        Z0  6e 4.6                              33.3
POPUMATIO  PUt PNSICDIA            4850.0    I3S0.0      3690.0 If       3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PU tNUSING PERSON             10980.0 IL 7420.0     546.0 0F W79X31                          2460.4
POP. PU RUspITAL NM
TOTAL                             2110.0    165Q0      1290.0 if        106.5                   10.2
UIRBA                                ..         ..      370.0 Id        296.0                    651.2
RURAL                                ,,         ,,    10410.0 7i       5M4                      2596.6
AIISSIONS PUt gS?ITAL IYO              ..         __         _.              ..                     27.0
AVERAE SmE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2       5.6        5.2 le
IIJI                                5.2        5.6        6.8 7__
RARAL                                5.2       5.6        5.37;
AvNA(Z N. OF PERSOI5IooN
TOrAL                                2.6       2.8
URBAN                               2.6        2.3
RURAL                                2.6       2_8
ACSS TO ElzCr. C: or AI:LIS)
_lO_AL                                                     __              _
ma_                                   __        ..                         ._.
RURAL                                 ..



ARM I
Page 2 of 5
TABL, It
INDIA                      W~~~RFRZNCC GROWS CVI1WGID ATUURE) 
am                      OT 0EzT 35D==) Al
ItCENZ        L0 INCE               oz   mig
1%00-    19yak    zSTINAARA G PACIII                  AlIAS ?AWIC
ADJUZ   W0~RziOS
RN1A.  :OVL                        6L0        73.0       79.0            97.4                    lOL0
KMZ                      80.0       90.0       93.0           110.5                    105.9
YEAL                     40.0     S5.          64.0            63.7                    9.2
SECOND: TOL                        20.0       Z.O        30.0            35.9                     46.0
NAZI                     30.0      3.0         39.0            446                     46.7
IURAIZ                   10.0      15.0        20.0            26.                     43.1
IO UL CZ OF SICa I)                   2.5        10         0.7 h           2.2                     17.5
P3~alm=                            46.0       41.0       54.0            36.5                     3L1
SECOIf                             16.0       21.0         ..            1.7                      23.5
AWMT LIACE RAZE CZ)                  27.8       31.        36.             ILA                      72.9
CIf
?hSw         CAlS/26USANDZ POP        0.6       1L1         1.4 A           0.9                     10.1
AM             TU   ?D O              4.9       21.5       43.6           112.1                    113.6
TV        Si W D/SAN  pop             0.0        0.0        1.7            137                      50.1
->  ("ILn  GENUAL
imsz i CIRCULATIO
PE  n80 1Q OLATD                    106       16.2       19.4            16.2                     5L9
C       LUAL ATMNM ICAPT              3.2        LZ         3.7 7j          3.6                      3.4
TOTIL LJA0R PQ   CINDW5)          1859510  219194.0   282169.0
IDUZE (Pr)                         30.7       32.5       316             33.3                     33.5
)L E C?M                74.0      74.0       7L0              69.6                    52
ThUOS" C(PERC=                     11.0       11.0       13.2            15.8                     17.9
PARICZ?A?0 RIAZE C      r)
TMAL                                4.8       40.0       39.4            426                      36.7
NMZ                                57.0       524        52.0            5.7                      50.9
FENALE                              V.3       26.9       25.9            29.5                     2L6
ECON    DEmDEsr um                    1.1        L          1.1             1.0                      1.1
INOS mmioz
PECI    r PFV    icm
REClINED ST
IlGm=  5S o   fOULDS               26.7       26.3 A     2L2             22.2                     22.2
GNET 202 0o OF      S              517        4*.9 il    49.4 A4.0                                48.0
TinEs  202 or  OUSE                 4.1        6.7        7.0             6.4                      6.4
tAlKS40:10OF HOUSZBU0s             13.6       17.2 1    16.              15.5                     15.5
EStDU5ED Eo GROUP
ESTIIRAI  ABSDWIE P0U= IRCiE
LEVEL. CMS PER CAPITA)
..                                              ..      132.0 1         133.9         181.6
Al                                   ..         ..      114.0             L6                     152.0
ESTDM RmLATM Povmx rDXnE
LEVEL CUS Pm  CAPITA)
nAN                                  ..         ..         ..              ..                     77.9
RlAL                                 ..         ..         ..              ..                    164.6
ES1LtAXD POP NE3W A8SOLTZ
PO0EL ~infE LWIZ. CZ)
.                                              ..       40.3 lb         438                      23.4
DURAL                                ..         ..       50.7            51 37                    37.7
-ar ATVAiABLE
Wr APPLICAKE
N OT E S
/a  7he grOUap averages fw each indicator are populatlon-ue4fted ar_thutie  na. Coverage of acutries  oa fth
IndCeators depend on availabIly of data and In not un13zu
lb  Unles otberwis noted. "Data for 1960" refer to ay year 8etween 1959 and 1961; 'ta. for 1970" beteen 1969 and
1971; and data for "Boa lecen rItiste" between 1980 ad 1982.
Jc  1977; jd 1976; Is 1975; /f 197a; IL 1962; lb 1979; 1J 19646L.
JUN, 198



AIRE= I
Page 3 of 5
_E_~~~~~~~~~-1 t-   f__,-  -1_ a,  _c.                                    __ t M ,91    tt  _t U. __  _  _t_
""t  -d    ._ SIIISS      tt_          S_  ~_Vs          _S~    -2   mtn_  l. Sm__ 
Th. _ 9-    d--  - C 11 _St      *  --t_.--  C                           S1 _S r nn.     _    o
r._.    t_    _.  aa  -v   _a   tSff .                      i               _ -  _           -ts. SI  *    _  Ita _  _ i _t  C           0  C_ t
*   -   at .t. s   at ata aeeact~nt .nat.      -     agtt. at a- mittens         et  it n.Slcu   e MS isa. t       a  -a   Iw  C n.          tn  t 
retXtw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                4._      S"              SC d-et. -0    -: _ Mofwr-   r"    SSIS  _  t_bf ow 
. .Z; e Cit. _t              .4e ,    S. IOnS  :_4   -  _  ne t t tte.     _ S tat _ ._w _lSttoe gt.                                         S to. 1
(C    Iat_o it _        I)C_lt at                    CC 4-j.te r        4- (LI                 _ t W  S.                     _ al.t g t              __s    _ s   -b  St P t-.
aac(ad  nEet.4I-lIaa          tttI            c.lg         r       .   t   tat   naOI-C-Ss-0taaS rt                                    SS&      4-
t%h  _ ;_[   _                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t:t-S                          P...MS ft _    t",   _._  ,
It.    _ -glaC   aat   -    r_V . r    a  I   _      t m_       _
-   ns.c_  C_t.  nact.e  -a   a..               _.l      rea  r_tat.         _        tceAca   .gacSat I,., a taia _tta. _t _-et  t _ U _L
-  5         S15   a                                                                       U   *Lt- -_ _.L - _U   _              - at_:   a gt- lCt_
*tflt..tlacal -  _ISOs SE aafl : .. .e  _.       . _- gnt_                          _t   l    _. S te-      -.M u   S           .        _     _    _
_SC        Ctet  _It 95  tftE               - _t_ SI ?fl.1   I*ts.                     0    nSltv_St___aX__
low. -   net 4.ea d9t    I-SSte r    S L-  cnt . .  9-    n .                                                                           -I      SI   I a
-r            _ -          _._ - _ s        r,^,_u__                                                      -        SSTr  _ Wt   IS_              NW _S     _
LW59 aWIt t-lt.-  W    ca- ..tstt      -        cJt.     Sfl  nia                         n tabMLeN Is &&.Lt"   4-   egla    -IaSa.S                t
L".=tt t_ a          l   t  aa  -                 _S t.    -1  *_;                      f Sti_          etc..  ta-la   V D                   g          _
t-L u-enA at t 4-a.                                     *_ IWO, D                    ol. __, _                     taSattn    _.t              - _ta-
-            1_ . 4-0 . _ .05 _  fa Sia r _     . __--   0       4 0 D
ens?Wtehn  ta  Pt1 - Se.  aCstn~ -.It S                   c.la                     aciSat as.-g.tv   ta   y*55n1   ttC                              t
geSsa  aete -     C   _ D- _OSa. _a    . n.et.ta   s  a    lt-. .aac -ltO . a-. _                                   -t41 1-ts  t    -IMs   _Sts 4-
r4   _  _Mga    _     rn.tt.   S tS s -_ _l -45        ge alIIt  .ts                                 t_id  _D_ tStta   DO atzl _t.t  (tU
979.    Stat 4I-a                                                                  OfSS    ag ._tagtsZ   ett 0S - _1a  at   V 4-1tS   - it_s r
__=f__c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t tagtS 45c_. 5? MS 04c at Cd
S-v      ~     ~     *   ~_           -        -to                                         ..... M _t.    .        ._              -_      _    _ r
.~~-                                              b._O _r_ t_ ____.IW,tF 
lat--l _ta t_ _0z_ t_     _     -lt-  -_ *.  t_etTIa-I           _o
lanafL      t a.tat 5         1f -maltx  .,,S t-I_    . l.  4-, .t.t  U          M   tS
4_a-    4,c  9:.                                                                                .1 _*C _- ..... ..-..t..... S_c   "M  S t1-m tt
ts   __          -  at  ata- Lt.,  -t  ta S- S- s-             s                    W- a---I.         Sa *_1  - Clo    _            M  4       _t,       _
S.t_tn l   1 1  _    s       _         W     L _ ._       t datar                   4- 10 _a-   LS. _S Y-                                   C     -t
04  SICS  It. IO.   - Str iSa.         C- 104-C f   S-altIs
_s_-    I-& 9-                                ac-               --  1-          -   tL  ISO_              4w4  mS-Io
_= t.a.       . S                    .                ass t_a.   ]                                   _  e _ _ _*_t  t  _tSt  _ t O. 4-  ..tL   P."at   MSW
SM   ----_ SSSSSw gmD  O_,of,_:_t ; ___ _ 
At- c S       * _         - 2nt      I    - g   et-e 0                                       .. r51 *-                                                  4 W,
-=  _'_'S -0 IS      1_,  C__4        _     -  .P.3_:.   I.                                w     w*                 1-'w-EV              e*       _
=(a. cw.E* wE ~ev--W IglissIa  Stit fc S , c    .  5 at I.                             WSt It..                     _            _ w L_.r
Saal             tIlt ace        - teS  tt.saaa  .5           ea -.a     I. IaStl. __555  _.1 _-                            o   x laSti  50  _-a   -
Ca_ ISS       ,               iStt _o15,,                                * _SIt   -  _      _ _       _ e aSS   asC t S  5_ t_               - 5_
aslg4LSt Sn- ltStLIS-  stW-              1      -S 0.    #1
w~~-~~  e-__~~~~ _b_z tL _**                                  twfs__ vs__s_  rb__s._~~~~Ze.. . a          G-t
eIt__   gasI    tOtOc  __                     _        at * >>   -nW~
.  _ 1~~ _tr           Sn _rJ t 0. ad .a.-ttf  l_                             n_sat  ecS.    r _ _ -  sa    s   r_ t_ - ten   _51  . 4 _        Is
ts 10 0                                                                                                 r -w C             .1 m . 4-Ia w.S          _  _
eleSiIta (taLe.(a 0   a-.at.t.(           It10S                                  o         ia     die~-9 IsC    ejSa  ga04 t StO- -da
O=t   Etes  _t SCf r_S    e tt r sta  s        Sn ala he     I.w   _    _ C             tlis _ C _      -ts   OS.tlS0e                     a    4
-                  C       a -laC  -  -1 dl-            r     -t r            ,      _            P1 _ _  _         tat M
Sta_S a_ MS a      tt ntnatt S _t _C .atts  Ca                  c                         an .      -  Sa-_L -t_--   - Att__ St                  e_ a_ _S
50.w -_z SC It  _s1 Cl  at _fatt.    a. _paag   ast.                          *          Ct 1S g_ata  55 *-O  _-_ _tna              O   p51I
-3Is IC  n.e.c  .1 .tgataSa tc             a_t_ -.ra                               I __. .tn.    S. .          _                  SC l , _
taSa _  l er tO    ttinas  r_atat  0  tad- -Clat;et                                     at-la       l -a I? ta 5_ en .4   t  *t              *-         a
5 'S to  StS S ! - -ttLS   1 _             1        l.  rC la                                                              S  - t*?. *.                  S
C        _SS,  Sa _     _S           _D. O _ r   t  -    r _    tot  rtc-.                    _  _r_ -                         St_ c  : S .tI IS_tIt   _v
_ t_ee t  o an..                               66t l- o oV .5    - act... ,.4 . l"t-I                                     - _CW ItSI         aegnSa _ _q
-SSL                         LI te_ _t- *_ -:     -. S                                       _-t-tc. Sca                     _  _ t  at t_.  S  MS
_tmx                                                                                              A_z:.SSM__ r_ _it dt       s         __w _. _M  Sm_t_ _ as _ I. . lr.
-_.                                             -I- _- _ -   4-lad  _ _t   *_O ste     *_.-  r. _a 1'      __l aC       _   _   _t tS S 
C.t  dcn  _90 5*Z SC  r_t .r_.                                                     tdal  *_ _. ct_ Isste  - _ttt  at. (aCIe-                        SC 
(S,t. _ , at            t _ - Ca...S..S -     -..... PtILcS,a..t _t                   a l-a   t                        -   -nl- fStaaf t g
o151     t - ( t  _Sta        _      1        S    _ sS 
..jcn        ne.,c 4I'S'S .at - OIl tic.. M-I Ic.-.I. tflCtt.StS C'I-I-.     Cam? Is-.
- etn      s_Uttt        .                   c        M    C-ItdAt                   eStaO t a _   (s.c 5        .aaattl _   r _Inatts
_  _  _   nt_  e  _zt_.  _  Ea__ a0 _E_ f_ _fei.19M   d IW  d.
PM Lea- d5 (-sf1.51   -e _S 1-     ct                                                     S     _al
gapS.tSa SC559.55.-La..                   vnS*  -  59?0.t                 01t M- 1 1.55- -.aasta f- *1 Sa  StW  cSt Cas daatn
a  ClOt C   -,c3 -   -               d- a  c ts- - _Ot  w-ta                _ -   __ t  _ eas  t _ W  tc      t       Ce        t 5._55-_  saa
_eaStS  S_ tII..t Ca.g*0flittX                                                        asisStd  SS          Ia .11.  4- Isl=              14atugsa 
-  ECt-       .t   10-   045-M tl.S ttc     Cats               1aE                       toS  11   iSa ftc WbolaSt  C . an 1C aS        low  IWO
ISSISSO     P1.11          ta  s.                                                    solsa  a  e   4-   ISat  tatdtne MKI                          ate
S5-                                                                                                               , cw  _ at    t_t tal _  s .010    - S9n 1     4-a  W   t a
O        _*' Ott        *_c.atCSt galSat Cf 0r_ talen .ct_    _  :1 0-taattftt     tsSta. -tS         t- - (e t     t      SS-sI 0S    Ms.
ttsCtiCl lat    ttt~ fI.lIISt-   -S           C      t.. Itt   _1- 0      _SlSaI. ad                             IIISSt,s - C ISS - a  tO  P.  l 4.   -ela- ettIS,
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~gMt tt __ s _ t_aSts sci ottc St .sne1   _ a_st                                                      . it St_ r
FOX,  tf    - 5155Stt  150 Z lat&   -Z t__aS                                                 dt        1. *t1. at tet (S              "  .                S
ty~~~~~w ft_ b_"  . V.IS,1 -S   _  r,_ --L                                      _S Sf .s .... _e  ft      t      z     --1       >t_o is_ _   e_s -___ I
S    -tteIa   0 d041St at tants-l fat  cl-gt                                     ti       O   505   tt          SaOl  -05M                    
_I        d IlOt. *' *                                         .                                                   tat- aIw o-- t1 [  t-_  t_      a      
14-tv  fS.5  -t CgS-(S1I.- It Stela  a   --& .t t  at S-                                                                                          Ur  attn ota.
".0  at ttS-Uat         -      1- pItSWtat    t- ~ t-   w-d
ga.(t-t   Sf *_1_  St tatetSltS_t t_ 15 tW  a  d M          4                     LO .t-  C 
LCti.t CaCa        *- a     : 51. ?551    n   0, SCt C" _   at  "f .0 B-t  t Fa    t                            -   wtatI. atS     is 5m. Ist           "a at
tSC- '    ta      -tt   SP n    a-  It? t          *s   S*S -__t                             4   S      t _                     s
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ tts tt _I _S _SSSa  Ia_ trla _:lt    Ott*r    
M5  M-IdTI                                                                           Sta-a anta,[SO. 5910.ad It-  4-a
CSa              C*a-                       U.S    sasta   ai f-I                                           1     ftn I            tetaS. t      , _
-. le    _S i     :, V-S   _  _- ( _w: 1 w1      _ -1     o 'ISM S'S               IDSSSSS_ _t- _' W7 COE
tO   -  n    tt4l S`a' eta    A.i -nPn cot  Lc.e    Ot..IOt-110    tlSl10fta   90  t    -10 
t.tfSt Ocn .t tacIOdL   Wttcta I&at .lbu         atto   atat "we  0                    P---I Sl. att  O.              11t . ga .tCs st St t.- &15   I     I Sf
t_t    t.teet _otla  gc.0ac _.tn 4-51a: Itt-ni. __1_. 4-It_              _        - |tS iSat
O _ t       ~ ~ ~           -S t_f_t t*_
_ _ r _&.IS-                  SISS. .-__    L e e_."s_ 
-            -at                                                            ct       t      aat-a                      4E_-d
Slat..- 4- (taCS Mt taCtZ'. ga  OPICaaa.aea   ei   tt.etaIa    sta   seI.  tI    al.n    -tn   1    ld
MMtgt 4-  1St          l4.tM9 aSt(otS l Saftat.  e  SIdIa.                              C.gt,CsPnal   SC                  414
C 00CctCeIn ..   gagtlelsa. 4- alt.t   I sen--   -tc 1t."
SSSSi   ast  1151$  10-  ISia.                                               a    (InSlS
15  tta  nlIattt.c  ft..taip)-  lat   ne atC  15..dsa...ItdItestn  takl. 115  -ttt  -COt5?gOa 



I
Ke - DAT
w  s  Cay         111 26826a   #i
t     m= PODICS 1 1162/3 bJa LU avwm a. caoaat iftue) C/
19s5/s6-zg595160  19z60/i-Ie/S  1l9956     370  IM9     -1974M   1975176-97
llI.   &
MP at marlt  l170.74   100.0                                       3.7              3.6              3.7             L2               4.1
Gram hin.tlc Zaem8tR               4l.f   24.6
Gro  5a91n  Sw                     36.12   22.3
carreat Ac coutsel               -  3.67  - 2.3
C0TI -                     C           1991
(at  dtact r          Leb    ..          V.A. Pr arkI
SE .                    gm   *   fdtow    vrn
gSCnICOaa                          51.7                35.1        172.7    70.6      233        so
In&UMV                             35.2                23.9         31.6     13      1114        5
9821pV&                            60.6                *1.0         60.3    16.5    150l         29
InVAwrage                                                                   T
-           mAIZ
Generac  Gvermt                                      c
3.. in.            5 e f 0                   Na. NDa.               f
~g         .~L9. 13733-"83    1 6             19S193                      3-1963/
current muipta                      33         20.3           193.                175.61      1.7           10.l
current bIPanfita                   340.09     20.7           19.0                186.539     U1.           10.6
-  6.75    - 0.4            0.5              - 1.         - 0.          - 0.4
--- ----                    131.2       6.0            1.1                 95.13       5.3           3.7
acernaL 6aaIntanat) d                19.30      1.2            1.0
No", C== AND PCQ                   im/n  1975176 1977173            "                I                    Yebene  133  yabenazy 11r1
atae  ed Owes Mney                  10.8   221.6   329.1 I01.1   42.3   555.5  S ':             723.6       711.7         645.7
ak credt to  _avenrt (nc;            54.6   10.3   137.3   153.3   200.1   257.Z   309.1   352.4             353.5         406.6
Ceak cret to CeincIal Sector         64.6   156.2   212.2   255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   501.5            4.7         - 576.4
rcnta or Endex Smer)                                 ApZ.eb 19683 AVU         19U3b
aney ead Qaei Nmosy as a 
of CP                              27.3    30.3    36.7  t .1          4.L    43.6    42.0       ".0
moIeeela Prim IndeT
(1970M  - NAO)                    100.0   173.0   165.8   185a    217.6   257.3   261.4   23.6             23.1              314.
At  p          e cnes fat
-aolael Prcdes                        7.7    -1.1      5.Z      -       17..    15.2       9.4     2.6         2.3               9.3
lak Cott to Go_int (net)             15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    25.6    26.5    20.2    14.0             21.05/            1U.9
Naek Crdtt to Cmrca  Sector          19.4    227      12.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    18.4    17.2            15.5 1t.9
1  The peW cepsa M  eetlm    a at set prices. vaIng Worl lan  Ae --   Vo 1. beee perid 1979-136.
Aot oher cmwwem   teo dofae in thI to1. r at the average incb              ts prevailing dacbo tbe perd cored.
bl    c.   ntal Statistlral Organsatiam.
P   Cntlped ftren  11  of w at factor cast aeer. Inlifat   amabeewatIn  befog flt yr And am ab                  tvan after LJt yea of
isted 1   d.
dU Void lek aetinttee of ne disburent of coeemlml aid and I3.
I;  Tenfer, betwee Centce  _Sate bead baseesaced ear.
El All lam  ad advnce to dhird prtlie bass bees, nettad out.
IPecenea  cde_  finn. e4zcb 1962 to ado-benay 193.
F, Percena  cdag fro  and4erck 163 to end-Vobery 198.
Total Labor  orce end percsntag  breedon fru 1961 Canses. ixciudes data fo Aeeem.



lwU 3 af 5
BALAI Of PA3m=W          P       -       61   i           1923lUML 39g3jg4                  UZ         (1* C 05 192     U132 i3) I/
CUS ULU.)                                                                                                        on  ]u,
l=te of Goao"  8l 6.504    6.519    3.0L0                           6.466            _utan   God s                 9W6      12
Ingtta of Umadol                     -16.204  -15.W0   -14.249  -14.412             TM                             455       6
Trade Sale                           - 7.700  - 6.961  - 6.24   - 5.946             GC 7a9                                   9
Ss (net)                               1.365      974       90        66            Clothin                        3 
leather and 1atb  Products  4"0          6
aea.rce aio                          - 6.335  - 6.007  - 5.30       5.090                                          33te  1 r  D3  4
Irom ore                      3U S
Interaet intcoe Cum) Nil                 m        266  -   415  -   64              Cat   e1ti                     328       4
Set Trmieam  if                        2.771    2.318     1.849     1 .790          S8pr                           86        1
Others #3.649                           46
Balance on Carrun Account            - 2.964  - 3.40   - 3.74  - 3.94B
Official Loans 4 cratm                                                              Total                        8.243     100
Grass flinbura.ant                     2.631    2.570    3.0566    3.4U1               LWO      OUT. sER 31. 1983
rtizatim                             -  700  -  674  -   701  -   763
ll5 b
Transeactio  with tf (nut              1.03S      690    1.960    1.29S               ust_a igo Diabuud                     19.6
AIX Oter Itmo                        -  367  - 1.531         12       531            _.dSb,raed                             11U.
Outstdg lucludin   niiehrad             30.7
Inese in   se C-)                        345    2.39         03  -  S36
Gcc emoara (and yar}) PI               69    4.461        4.964    .500 NO          OMT SZn   317A0 NM 12863/   a/ 10.1 pUr cet
mmt leaere (end  eewr)  r              6.332    3.497    2.O66      1.449
IU/I2  UQ;. SR31. 3964 3
Fuel end lnatmed Materials
uS       .
luporta Clerrol   Sr                   6.672    S5.90    4.613    3.39S -WD                                                     m
Outetauding and                   1.U6      7.924
Undiabur.d                        2.061    4.331
OmtetandluS incudng *nadsburse   3.907   12.255
J3n. 1966 to a:4-Dinmer 1971    :  USS1.00 - Rs 7.50
Re 1.00 - am60.13333
K      _d-Decber 1971 to end-jm  1972_ :  US1.00 - to 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - Osso.7376
After G-Jon  1972                :     ang Rate
Spat Raet and-March 1963             USS1.00 - Rs 10.0501
Re 1.00 - 20S.0997
Spot lt and-March L964           :  Us1.00 - Re 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - JSSO.0933
a.'
k-  lwea sival coZw  all 1vaertmt Itcome (oat). Major payment  e  interest on faiad lom  and hargee paid to n. and mjor veceipts is
Interest earfld as foraig   mate.
1/ Figre gv    I includa    Iet  remittences hut exnds official grat aeeiwAece uLuch is incicdad within officialowna  and grant. and
nam-raglden depoalt 1ick-   included witbhi al other Item.
i1  laclnd    t ue of fl  credlt.
.1  Artiretio  and InSrra  payment on foreign ICane   a percaneg  of total currowt receipts.
at Inculde mhnge rate adjsacne  to the valnstian of r sezvaa ad finaci  of Imbalances In             tre.
Tjl Secuding gold.
NSt of crude petrolm  eportl.
r/lncluding ira  and steel.



ANNEX I)
Page Iot
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ millio'
Loan or  Fiscal                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.     AnDroval        Purfose                       Bank        IDA jj     Undisbram
49 Loans/                                           1,766.5         -
85 Credits fully disbursed                              -       4,858.4           -
482-IN    1974    Karnataka Dairy                      -          30.0         10.28
521-IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                     -          27.7          4.78
598-IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                 -         105.0          0.21
604-IN    1976     Power Transmission IV               -         150.0          0.13
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development       -          18.0          0.95
1251-IN    1976    Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0         -           37.55
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                   25.0         -           14.29
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport             25.0         -            2.84
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development           -          30.0         10.19
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development           -          20.0          1.86
685-IN    1977     Singrauli Thermal Power             -         150.0          2.82
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research              -          12.0          8.92
1394-IN    1977    Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0         -            4.08
712-IN   1977      M.P. Agric. Development             -          10.0          0.29
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation           -          23.0          4.00
728-IN    1977    Assam Agricultural Development       -           8.0          3.38
736-IN    1978     Naharashtra Irrigatioz              -          70.0          1.91
747-IN    1978     Sect,nd Foodgrain Storage           -         107.0         56.87
756-IN    1978     Calce1tta Urban Development II      -          87.0          1.88
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                         -           8.0          5.22
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector           25.0         -            1.97
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power       105.0         -            4.20
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                -         117.6         45.64
793-IN    1978    Korba Thermal Power                  -         200.0         33.59
806-IN    1978     Jaumu-Kashmir Horticulture          -          14.0         10.76
808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                  -          85.0          3.99
815-IN    1978    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             -          17.5          9.51
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                   -          16.0          6.74
1592-IN    1978     Telecoumunications VII            120.0         -           20.61
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                      -         150.0         60.67
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II              -         196.0        148.04
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                     -         190.0         34.79
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage      -          38.0          6.88
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research      -          27.0         15.87
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -          25.0          4.82
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -          30.0          1.76
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Pover           50.0         -           50.00



ANKEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Aniroval       Pur-ose                        Balk        ID jJ       Undisbursed  /
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -         200.0          18.95
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         129.0          48.83
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -          48.0          12.19
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0          16.16
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -          23.0           5.42
954-IN    1980     Nbarashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          58.97
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -          37.0          10.82
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -          20.0          16.86
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -          46.0          30.84
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -          32.0          21.19
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -         175.0         111.93
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -          22.0          16.98
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -         300.0         172.64
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -          10.0           8.08
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0          21.32
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -          54.0          35.56
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -           80.0          57.17
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                  100.0         -             7.71
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Pover               25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0         118.94
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -           22.73
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0          -             2.92
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0          17.11
1078-IN    1981     Nahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0          51.69
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          20.91
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Nedium Irrigation               -         140.0          99.94
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         314.0         111.50
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0          41.97
1125-IN    1981     Bazira Fertilizer Project            -         400.0         165.74
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0          15.75
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          19.09
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0          30.42
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0         80.24
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0         297.60
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -          220.0        175.64
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0         -            28.41
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          22.42
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          18.67
2051-IN    1982     ICICi XIV                          150.0         -            81.49
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Pover II        300.0         -           300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                            190.0         -             5.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -            6.0           5.05
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -           123.52
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           290.68
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          34.69
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                            72.0          66.53
1286-IN    1983     Jafrmn/Kashbir and



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1J     Undisbursed  f
Haryana Social Forestry           -           33.0         27.65
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -           -
Irrigation II                     -           31.0         22.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -         127.0        117.32
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Ezploration       165.5         -          148.22
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                  200.0          -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -          200.0        192.83
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development    222.3           -          133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0        129.18
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -         101.0         96.62
1356-IN   1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0        158.07
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -          156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -         147.0        145.05
1383-IN    1983     Paharashtra Water Utilixation        -          32.0         31.13
2308-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization       22.7         -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission         250.7         -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2         -           46.08
2329-IN    1983     Nadhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -           24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -         105.0         97.97
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -          31.0         31.0
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0         70.0
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -          27.0         27.0
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply*             -          36.5         36.5
Total                                  5,183.2    12,015.7
of which has been repaid             1.298.8        153.5
Total now outstanding                  3,884.4    11,862.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8        -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA ;1      3,884.4    11,862.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)        2,021.25    3,701.25
1j IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
ZI IUndisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRlUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1984.
Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. ST&TEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Comany                       Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Nabindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Lakabmi Machine Works Ltd.            l=0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9               15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Iahindra, Mahiudra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.8        -      15.8
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.3        -       8.3
1984            The Gualior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      4.3         -       4.3
TOTAL GROSS CONMThSENIS       211.8       12.1    223.9
Less:   Sold                         53.0       3.4     56.4
Repaid                      32.0         -      32.0
Cancelled                   16.0        1.4     17.4
Nov Held                   110.8        7.3    118.1
Uisure  81=        =81
Undisbursed                 81.2         -      81.2
==D



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Kev Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the proiect
About two years.
(b)  The axencv which has prepared the proiect
The Governments of Nadhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and
Orissa; the Government of India.
(c) Date of first _resentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the proiect
February 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
December 1, 1983.
Ce) Date of completion of nezotiations
August 13, 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 31, 1984.
Section II:     Special Conditions
(a) Each project State and MOA/DOE would review project
execution by September 30, 1986 and increase staff
and facilities to the extent found necessary
(para 43);
(b) States to ensure that all extension staff under the
project would be used exclusively for agricultural
extension activities, and that the entitlement to
emoluments, benefits and promotion prospects of staff
assigned to the extension service would not be adver-
sely affected by reason of assignment (para 43);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) States to provide sufficient credit and financial
incentives for motorcycle, moped and bicycle purchase
and operation, respectively, to ensure their use by
field staff (para 44);
(d) GOI to submit to IDA for final review and approval
special sub-projects proposed for financing
(paras 53-54);
(e) GOI to establish ETAC by December 31, 1984
(paras 57-58);
(f) GOI, through DOE, to undertake in field supervision
in all States participating in IDA-supported
projects, and to submit an annual work plan and
six-month project progress reports to IDA (para 60).



IBRD 17967t
* JAMMUI
AFGHANISTAN\L                      and
KAStjMIR    'z
H| NIMACHALt                                        I N  D  A
( PADE-5                                           NDI
-=    c          ?          -NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
PAS ISTA N                     +_                  CEXTENSION  PROJECT
PA K I S T A N                                                                 "1Jy              CAP-T." / ^   R\^xass T A[^ E   *  5TCLC-I
IrE2SnC OJECiS    .*      CA-T-,
.-                                ---~~~~r----jr-
- ~ ~ ~ t _-a                                 4            ;HTNtgA
sp              S~~~HUTAN- C     ":
UTTAR PRADESH  '-                                              ;
.   bNW1RAX  RA R- M
d      r    ,_tPADSH,_~
KARNATAK~ 
A rabian  Sea                                                                                   fAM,:
~~TAMIL NADUJ                 Bay  of Bengal                              I -
KERALA
\  __             r_s)              ~~~~~~~~ ~~~SRI LANKA  t  P    ao 1C    @c
~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~1                               'M   S  00    IO e   ,,
AUGUST 191



