CREDIT NUMBER 1523 IN
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
and
STATE OF ORISSA
and
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
Dated   1 Cx1Ut          2-        1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1523 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   >CAV*)b'                  , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF RAJASTHAN and STATE OF ORISSA and STATE
OF  MADHYA   PRADESH,  acting   by  their   respective  governors
(hereinafter collectively called the Project States).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty eight million and six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,600,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS   in   accordance  with   the   Borrower's  standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India,
part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the
Project States; and
WHEREAS  the   Project  States,   in  consideration  of  the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Project States declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿- 2 -
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Part A of the Project described in said Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Project States undertake to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to them by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Project States to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) The Project States shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to them
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall furnish to the
Association,   promptly  upon   their  preparation,   the  plans,
specifications,   reports,  contract   documents  and   work  and
procurement   schedules  for   the  Project,   and  any  material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Project States shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association through DOE, at regular intervals, all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be


﻿-3-
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, and all such other
information as the Borrower shall reasonably request in order to
enable the Borrower to carry out its obligations under Section
3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) Upon the award by the Project States of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Project
States and the Association, the Project States shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Project States and the Association of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(e) The Project States shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment, records and documents
of the Project States relevant to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Project States shall, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The    Project   States   shall   promptly   inform   the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project
States of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Project States shall: (a) establish
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out
effective monitoring and evaluation of their respective parts of


﻿the Project, and carry out such monitoring and evaluation in
accordance with said procedures; and (b) prepare and furnish to
the Association, through DOE, annual summaries of the results of
such monitoring and evaluation.
Section 2.07. The Project States shall ensure that: (a) all
extension positions assigned to the administrative control of DOA
for the purposes of the Project shall be used exclusively for
agricultural extension and retained under such administrative
control and;
(b) staff assigned to carry out extension work under the
Project shall not be adversely affected, in respect of their
entitlements to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects,
by reason alone of such assignment.
Section 2.08. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension work under the Project, the Project States
undertake to make available:
(a) to all eligible staff in need of credit for the
purchase of motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles, such credit on terms
and conditions designed to provide incentives for the purchase of
such motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles; and
(b) such financial incentive, including appropriate travel
allowances, in order to encourage optimum use of the motorcycles,
mopeds and bicycles to be purchased under paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.09. The Project States undertake to fill incre-
mental staff positions in accordance with a schedule agreed with
the Association.
Section 2.10. Each of the Project States:
(a) shall, no later than September 30, 1986, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its comments, a review of Project
execution, such review to determine, inter alia, the adequacy of
field staff arrangement thereunder; and
(b) if the findings of such review reveal that the number
of staff or other facilities deployed under the Project are not
sufficient  for   the  efficient  implementation  thereof, shall
increase the number of staff and other facilities so deployed,
taking into account the Association's recommendations.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Each of the States shall cause its departments
and other agencies and authorities responsible for the carrying
out of its part of the Project or any part thereof to: (i) main-
tain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices and procedures consis-
tently applied, their resources, expenditures and operations
related to the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Association
copies of their accounts and financial statements related to the
Project for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and
authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to the Associa-
tion, as soon as available but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year.
Section 3.02. Each of the States shall cause its departments
and other agencies and authorities responsible for the carrying
out of its part of the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements related to the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
immediately following its finalization, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said accounts and
records, financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-6-
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of Rajasthan:
Secretary AgrLcultural Production
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur, India
Cable address:
AGRIRAJ
Jaipur


﻿-7-
For State of Madhya Pradesh:
Secretary to Government of Madhya Pradesh
Department of Agriculture
Bhopal, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bhopal
For State of Orissa:
Commissioner-Cum-Secretary
to Government of Orissa
Agricultural and Cooperation Department
Bhubaneswar, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bhubaneswar, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each of the Project States may be taken or
executed by a Secretary to the Government in each Project State
or such other person or persons as each Project State shall
designate in writing, and each Project State shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient   evidence  of  the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SActing   Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By  -Authorized Representative
STATE OF ORISSA
Byf                 -Authorized Representative
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By (j       'uthorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


