                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2982



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-42240)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 53.8 MILLION
                        (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                     FOR A

              LOCAL AUTHORITIES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                                  June 12, 2014




Urban Development and Services Practice (AFTU2)
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2013)

                          Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                               1,000 = US$2.08
                             US$ 1.00 = CFA 480

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
AGETIP   Public Works Executing Agency (Agence d'Exécution de Travaux d'Intérêt
         Public pour 1'Emploi)
AMS      Mayors Association of Senegal (Association des Maires du Sénégal)
ARD      Regional Development Agency (Agence Régionale de Développement)
CADAK    Urban Community of Dakar (Communauté d'Agglomération de Dakar)
CAR      Urban Community of Rufisque (Communauté d'Agglomération de Rufisque)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CMA      Contract Management Agency
EA       Environmental Assessment
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FECL     Grant System for Local Governments (Fonds d'Equipement des Collectivités
         Locales)
GDA      Greater Dakar Area
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoS      Government of Senegal
LADP     Local Authorities Development Program
MAP      Municipal Adjustment Program (Programme d'ajustement municipal)
MDA      Municipal Development Agency (Agence de développement municipal)
MDF      Municipal Development Fund (Compte de Crédit Communal)
MTR      Mid-Term Review
PAC      Urban Development and Decentralization Program
PIP      Priority Investment Program
PMP      Priority Maintenance Program (Programme d'entretien prioritaire)
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework


                        Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                      Country Director: Vera Songwe
                       Sector Manager: Alexander E. Bakalian
                  Project Team Leader: Salim Rouhana
                     ICR Team Leader: Salim Rouhana




                                       i
                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                 LOCAL AUTHORITIES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                CONTENTS
Data Sheet
                                                                                                                            Page
A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iii
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iii
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iii
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... iv
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iv
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
H. Restructuring ............................................................................................................. ix
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 52
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55
MAP IBRD 34470 ........................................................................................................ 56




                                                              ii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Local Authorities
Country:                Senegal                  Project Name:
                                                                           Development Program
Project ID:             P084022                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42240
ICR Date:               06/12/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           SENEGAL
Original Total
                        XDR 53.80M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 49.38M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 53.80M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipal Development Agency (Agence de Développement Municipal, ADM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Grant System for Local Government (Fonds d'Entretien des Collectivités Locales, FECL)
 French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement, AFD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/13/2005     Effectiveness:              01/22/2007       01/22/2007
                                                                                  10/27/2011
Appraisal:            01/23/2006     Restructuring(s):                            07/25/2012
                                                                                  09/12/2013
Approval:             07/18/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                    12/31/2011       12/16/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 20                  20
Other social services                                                 20                  20
Sub-national government administration                                20                  20
Urban Transport                                                       40                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                         43                  43
Decentralization                                                      14                  14
Municipal finance                                                     29                  29
Municipal governance and institution building                         14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Vera Songwe                          Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Alexander E. Bakalian                Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader:       Salim Rouhana                        Christian Diou
ICR Team Leader:           Salim Rouhana
ICR Primary Authors:       Dina Nirina Ranarifidy
                           Christian Diou
                           Paulette Castel




                                                iv
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The program's development objectives are to: (a) strengthen the capacity of urban
municipalities to improve resource mobilization, and municipal and urban management;
and (b) increase access to and quality of public infrastructure and services in urban areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDOs were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years
                Level of resource mobilization (percentage of revenue increase in urban
Indicator 1 :
                municipalities' account
                CFAF35.5 billion (2005
                actual revenues, for the
Value
                five urban municipalities
quantitative or                            30%                                 54.9%
                of the Greater Dakar Area
Qualitative)
                and the 12 regional
                capitals)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                   12/31/2011                          12/16/2013
Comments
                Achieved and exceeded. Built capacities at local levels and set-up of effective
(incl. %
                tools.
achievement)
                Part allocated annually through the local authorities' budget to finance
Indicator 2 :
                infrastructure and maintenance (percentage)
Value
quantitative or 3% (2005 actual)           7%                                  10.85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                   12/31/2011                          12/16/2013
Comments
                Achieved and exceeded. This was considered a priority element of municipal
(incl. %
                contracts.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of persons directly benefiting from at least one subproject
Value
quantitative or 0 (2005)                   1,550,000                           1,653,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                   12/31/2011                          12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)




                                                v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                Number of provisional budget reports prepared by the Treasury before March 31
Indicator 1 :
                of each year (percentage)
Value
(quantitative   60%                       95%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                  12/31/2011                       12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Number of municipal budgets approved by the Prefect after generation by the
Indicator 2 :
                municipalities before April 15 of each year (percentage)
Value
(quantitative   50%                       90%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                  12/31/2011                       12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Mobilization of non-tax revenues directly by the Municipalities (percentage)
Value
(quantitative   CFAF 8.3 billion          +90%                             +131%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                  12/31/2011                       12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved and exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Percentage of repayments of municipal loans and contributions
Value
(quantitative   91%                       95%                              97.22%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                  12/31/2011                       12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Number of city contracts signed
Value
(quantitative   0                         67                               67
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/18/2006                  12/31/2011                       12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)

                                              vi
Indicator 6 :     Amount of PIPs committed (percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0                          100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. 98.5% of sub-projects implemented on time.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Amount of PIPs disbursed (percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0                          100%                                 98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %          PIPs not completely disbursed due to delays at AGETIP level.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Share of sub-projects implemented within timeframe (percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0                          95%                                  60.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
                  Challenges at municipal and implementing agency levels led to numerous delays
(incl. %
                  in sub-project implementation.
achievement)
                  Share of facilities built/ rehabilitated effectively in use within 6 months of
Indicator 9 :
                  completion (percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0                          95%                                  79%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
                  Municipalities are slower than expected in effectively using facilities, but
(incl. %
                  completed assets are being well-utilized.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Number of municipalities using maintenance funds for infrastructure
Value
(quantitative     0                          67                                   60
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
                  Partially achieved. The global consolidated amount allocated exceeded
(incl. %
                  expectation.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Quarterly progress reports produced within a month after the period
Value
(quantitative     0                          4                                    4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                 12/31/2011                           12/16/2013
Comments
                  Achieved.
(incl. %

                                                  vii
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    CMA operating costs < 5%
Value
(quantitative     < 5%                      < 5%                              3.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                12/31/2011                        12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :    Average number of days for payment of invoices to contractors and consultants
Value
(quantitative     10                        6                                 5.56
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                12/31/2011                        12/16/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    Share of labor costs > 20% for municipal PIPs (at each PIP level)
Value
(quantitative     20%                       > 20%                             19.02%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/18/2006                12/31/2011                        12/16/2013
Comments
                  Partially achieved. Many works were not as labor intensive as expected, leading
(incl. %
                  to the reduction of labor cost.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     11/21/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/05/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      8.32
  3     11/30/2007       Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                      8.40
  4     05/29/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      9.63
                              Moderately
  5     11/26/2008                                       Satisfactory                      14.17
                            Unsatisfactory
  6     03/20/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       16.77
  7     09/22/2009       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                16.93
  8     04/21/2010       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                21.44
  9     01/18/2011       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                27.05
 10     09/24/2011       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                36.83
 11     07/01/2012       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                54.87
 12     04/22/2013       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                71.64
 13     11/19/2013           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       71.64



                                                viii
H. Restructuring

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     First extension of closing date
 10/27/2011               MS    MS           40.64   from December 31, 2011 to
                                                     September 30, 2013
 07/25/2012               MS    MS           55.73   Reallocation of credit proceeds
                                                     Second extension of closing
 09/12/2013               MS    MS           71.64   date from September 30, 2013
                                                     to December 16, 2013




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and sector issues
1.      Rapid pace of urbanization and increased pressure on services and
infrastructure. At the time of project appraisal in 2006, it was estimated that in 2025,
10.5 million people, comprising 62 percent of the Senegalese population, would be living
in urban areas, more than a 13-fold increase compared to 1960. This rapid pace of
urbanization was severely testing municipal capacities to efficiently deliver basic urban
services and manage scarce resources. Also, the lack of proper infrastructure networks
and adequate services in secondary cities was contributing to increased migration from
rural areas to the capital, adding to deteriorating living conditions for the poor and
straining limited technical and financial capacity of municipal and metropolitan
authorities. As a result, financing needs had to be addressed at two different levels: (i) to
reinforce the role of secondary cities (mainly regional capitals) as development poles to
limit population exodus from the regions, thus decreasing the burden on the Dakar
metropolitan area; and (ii) to invest in the Dakar metropolitan area to address the lack of
proper structuring infrastructure facilities that were not financed during the past two
decades.
2.     Slow implementation of the decentralization process. The Government of
Senegal (GoS) had pursued a progressive, yet cautious, decentralization policy since its
independence in 1960. In this context of decentralization, a simple framework for
carrying out municipal planning and management by local governments was developed
under the Bank-financed Urban Development and Decentralization Program (UDDP).
This enabled local governments to learn how to prioritize, plan service delivery,
formulate, implement, and monitor budgets, to mobilize fiscal and non-fiscal revenues,
and be accountable to communities. Despite the efforts made, the Government still had to
ensure adequate support to local authorities to help them actually endorse their new
management responsibilities, and to simplify and update the institutional framework.
3.      Important management issues at the level of the Greater Dakar Area. The
Greater Dakar Area (GDA) hosts about half of the urban population of the country. A
Dakar Urban Area Authority (Communauté Urbaine de Dakar) managed inter-communal
primary infrastructure and main services in the GDA until its dissolution in 2001. From
2001 to 2004, no authority was in charge of managing these key infrastructures and
services, leading to a weakening and low efficiency of the inter-municipal structures of
the GDA, as the communes only focused on their own needs. No global arrangements
have been put in place, except for solid waste collection and treatment which is under the
direct responsibility of the GoS. In August 2004, the Government created the Urban
Community of Dakar (CADAK – Communauté d'Agglomération de Dakar) and the
Urban Community of Rufisque (CAR – Communauté d'Agglomération de Rufisque) to
consider the specific requirements of the GDA, especially strengthening cooperation
between the urban municipalities and the rural communities on infrastructure and
services at the GDA level. The content of the missions delegated by the municipalities to
CADAK and CAR was further refined in October 2005 in collaboration with the main


                                             1
donors active in the urban sector, the French Development Agency (AFD) and the
International Development Association (IDA). Their mandate was intended to include:
solid waste management, inter-communal roads and lighting, and any other primary
infrastructure, as decided by the municipalities. At time of appraisal, to be in a position to
fulfill their role, the CADAK and the CAR needed to become operational, with staff
recruited and trained. The Government intended to build on existing municipal-level
arrangements and to support specific Priority Investment Programs (PIP) and Inter-
communal Adjustment Programs as essential elements for progress in the management of
inter-municipal infrastructure and services.
4.      Management of fiscal transfers from central to local level still to be streamlined
into the Government’s functions. A satisfactory financial and institutional management
framework was designed and implemented under the UDDP. The project was intended to
address the gap between the capacity of local governments and the expectations of the
new regulatory and institutional framework, covering all the country’s municipalities and
forming the backbone of Senegal’s decentralization program. MDA helped to strengthen
Municipalities’ financial and organizational management, ensure sustainability of transfer
mechanisms, and enable better predictability of the flow of fiscal transfers from the
central level to the Municipalities. These efforts were supported by the Grant System for
Local Governments (Fonds d’Equipement des Collectivités Locales - FECL).
Rationale for Bank involvement
5.      The Local Authorities Development Program (LADP) was fully aligned with the
2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) discussed at the Board in April 2003, which aimed to: (a) promote good
governance and strengthen the rule of law; (b) reinforce local development by
strengthening decentralization and good governance at the local level; (c) accelerate
development of basic infrastructure to increase access to services for all and to develop
human capital; and (d) increase investment and reinforce competitiveness of the
production system, namely in infrastructure. One of the major objectives of the CAS was
to help expand the supply of infrastructure and services, most prominently among the
poor, to lower service costs and to promote private sector development. A new CAS, then
under preparation (released on January 18, 2013), confirmed economic growth, private
sector development, delivery of social services, and rural and urban synergies as a main
focus.
6.     The program fit into the Bank’s long term involvement in Senegal’s urban sector
and benefited from four previous urban projects (including PAC) and two projects
involving the Public Works Executing Agency (AGETIP). The 1972 “Parcelles
Assainies” Project was the very first urban development project financed by the World
Bank. It was felt, however, that the crucial issues of transferring responsibilities to local
governments for programming, financing, and maintenance of these infrastructures, and
promoting coherent investment programs needed to be better addressed in a context of
growing decentralization.
7.     The LADP constituted a follow-up to the successful UDDP. Among the key
achievements of the UDDP and other projects was the introduction of municipal contracts
in support of the Senegalese decentralization policy. All 67 urban municipalities had


                                              2
signed a Municipal Contract, representing an amount of CFAF 46 billion. The program
carried out 410 investment programs supporting city halls, markets, bus stations, schools,
healthcare centers, roads, drainage, street lighting, sanitation, and environmental
investments. More importantly, the program was able to introduce the concept of lending
to municipalities and helped them improve their financial capacities. This concept has
provided an efficient channel for national resources and an attractive platform for donor
investment in the urban sector. However, at the time of appraisal, there were still debates
within the Government, confirming the need for additional steps to further increase the
links between central and local governments without compromising the decentralization
principles and the results obtained thus far under the PAC on a sustainable financial
transfer mechanism. Given the magnitude of the reforms still in progress, it was unlikely,
at the time of appraisal, that any other donor would be able to lead the reform program.
The Bank’s long experience in Senegal’s decentralization program, its global experience
in the region, the large sources of funding required and the leveraging capacity with other
donors, were seen as key elements of success by all stakeholders.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
8.     The program's development objectives were to: (a) strengthen urban
municipalities’ capacity to improve resource mobilization, and municipal and urban
management; and (b) increase access to and quality of public infrastructure and services
in urban areas. The key indicators were:
      (a) 30 percent revenue increase in municipal budget.
      (b) 7 percent allocated annually through the local authorities’ budget to finance
          infrastructure maintenance
      (c) at least 1,550,000 direct beneficiaries from at least one subproject.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
9.       The PDOs remained relevant for the duration of the project and were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.     The main beneficiaries are the populations of selected urban and peri-urban areas
in the targeted 67 urban municipalities who benefited from the social, administrative and
economic infrastructure built during the project. The municipal agents and Mayors, as
well as the Senegalese administration (Ministry of Local Governments, Department of
Taxation and Properties, Department of Treasury and Public Accounts, Department of
General Affairs and Territorial Administration Directorate and the Audit Office) also
benefited from training, technical assistance and equipment to improve management and
service delivery.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
11.      There were three components in the project.



                                               3
Component A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building at the Local and
Central Levels (total cost estimated at appraisal: US$13.95 million; IDA amount:
US$11.44 million).
12.     The general objective of this component was to improve the decentralization
process, the mobilization and use of local resources, and municipal capacities to manage
and deliver urban services. It was also intended to support the development and
management of the inter-communal bodies and efforts of the central governmental
departments and the MDA to support the project's reforms and development objectives.
Those were built on lessons learned from the sustained Bank engagement in the urban
sector in Senegal since the 1970s.
13.     A dedicated Directorate in the MDA was responsible for the capacity building
component. The agency held consultations on behalf of the beneficiaries for selecting
consultants, procuring supplies and equipment, and organizing training. It oversaw
financial execution of this component and was responsible for the quality of services
delivered under this component. The component included three subcomponents:
   •   Sub-component A.1: Activities targeted municipalities directly and were set forth
       in the municipal adjustment program included in the municipal contracts. They
       constituted the administrative and financial base of institutional development
       interventions in the selected cities. It focused on four pillars of the municipal
       responsibilities: (i) resource mobilization; (ii) municipal management; (iii)
       programming; and (iv) financial reform;
   •   Sub-component A.2: Activities targeted inter-communal bodies, including
       specific inter-communal technical assistance to support the creation of CADAK
       and CAR (studies, equipment and technical assistance);
   •   Sub-component A.3: Activities under this component aimed to enhance the
       project’s positive impact and ease implementation, benefitting the central
       governmental departments, AMs and the MDA.


Component B: Municipal and Inter-communal Physical Investments (total cost
estimated at appraisal: US$124.53 million; IDA amount: US$63.59 million).
14.     This component was carried out along two tracks: (a) 67 municipal contracts for
the implementation of priority investment programs (PIP) and priority maintenance
programs (PMP) included in the municipal contracts; and (b) two larger inter-communal
programs for the Dakar metropolitan area. This included studies, works, supervision and
fees to be paid through a Contract Management Agency (CMA). Specific arrangements
had been agreed upon for the financing of the investments, depending on the nature and
size of the cities and based on the following principles, allowing for the earmarking of
fund flows:
   •   AFD financing would concentrate on investments for CADAK, CAR, and
       selected urban municipalities of the Greater Dakar Area (Pikine, Guediawaye, and
       Bargny);




                                           4
      •   IDA financing would concentrate on investments for CADAK, CAR, selected
          urban municipalities of the Greater Dakar Area (Dakar and Rufisque), and the
          other regional capitals; and
      •   FECL financing and recycling of loan reimbursements by the MDA would
          concentrate on investment for the remaining 52 municipalities.
15.    In addition to the project financing, the municipalities financed the maintenance
programs themselves on their own budget to emphasize the importance of assets
maintenance.
      •   Sub-component B.1: Implementation of PIPs and PMPs (cost estimated at
          US$79.16 million; IDA amount: US$30.41 million). The PIP included a wide
          range of investment categories and was aimed to favor optimizing existing
          infrastructure and services rather than new investments. The range of investments
          was redefined during project preparation taking into account lessons learned from
          the implementation of similar projects and the urban and municipal audits. It
          included social, administrative, and economic infrastructure. New project data
          processing strengthened subproject eligibility with special attention to site
          availability and management arrangements. Appropriate implementation of
          maintenance programs was a prerequisite for access to the financing windows.
      •   Sub-component B.2: Larger scale inter-communal investment program in the
          GDA (total cost estimated at US$45.37 million; IDA amount: US$33.18 million}.
          An investment program was identified during preparation with municipal
          consultation. It was aimed at reinforcing the urban structure of the GDA,
          preparing the urban area for construction of the toll highway and improving urban
          mobility within and around the five urban municipalities of the GDA, as well as
          improving access to suburban areas and the Dakar seaport. It was consistent with
          the updated urban audits of the five urban cities of the GDA and with the two
          other major Bank-financed activities in the Dakar metropolitan area (the Urban
          Mobility Improvement Project and the Dakar-Diamniadio Toll Highway Project).
          The investment program also complemented the work program launched by the
          Government in May 2006, financed by the Islamic Conference Organization. The
          final program had been prepared and approved with CADAK, CAR, and the five
          urban municipalities during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations.
Component C: Support to Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
(total cost estimated at appraisal: US$6.15 million; IDA amount: US$0.65 million).
16.     This component would provide financing for efficient project implementation
through the MDA, including staff, operating costs, monitoring and evaluation, and costs
of technical and financial audits.
17.    Provisions for physical (5 percent of works) and financial contingencies were
made for the program (physical: US$6.22 million of which IDA amount was US$2.0
million; and financial: US$6.15 million of which IDA amount was US$2.32 million).

1.6 Revised Components
18.       The original components were not revised.


                                              5
1.7 Other significant changes
19.      A first extension of the Credit closing date was granted on October 27, 2011 for
21 months (from December 31, 2011 to September 30, 2013) to allow for completion of
physical and institutional activities. A second extension, from September 30, 2013 to
December 16, 2013, was granted on September 12, 2013 to allow time for adequate
completion of key drainage works in Rufisque. Another amendment was approved on
July 25, 2012, to allow for reallocations of the proceeds of the Credit between the
activities within the original spending categories.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
20.    The project built on the main successes achieved through the UDDP and other
urban projects in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). It also benefited from a very good and active
cooperation between the AFD and the Bank, the two main donors active for decades in
the urban sector in Senegal.
Preparation and design
21.      The LADP core mechanism is based on municipal contracts, already successfully
implemented in Senegal and other SSA countries. Thanks to an active presence in-
country and an in-depth knowledge of the Senegalese urban sector, the preparation phase
took only about one year, from January 2005 (identification mission) to January 2006
(appraisal mission). During this period, the Bank team confirmed a global agreement with
the other key donor active in this field in Senegal, the AFD. A joint analysis was
undertaken, and the Appraisal confirmed the project design. The proposed project
activities were confirmed and fine-tuned during preparation with the Government and the
AFD. They were coherent with and supportive of the then Senegalese decentralization
context.
22.     The municipal contracts, signed between the Government and a municipality,
were confirmed as the core mechanism for ensuring quality of project implementation
and measurable targets. They include a priority investment program (PIP), a priority
maintenance program (PMP) and a priority adjustment program (PAP). Some contract
features had been revised, based on lessons learned, to better address new challenges
facing Senegalese municipalities at the time of project appraisal. Among them: (i) the
screening process of subprojects included in the PIP was more rigorous to better account
for the actual availability of sites and mitigation of potential negative environmental and
social impacts; (ii) the PMP were designed to be more demanding, and a clear target to be
monitored had been set up as an eligibility criteria for the municipality (raised from 3
percent to 7 percent of their current revenues along the project duration); (iii) a
comprehensive capacity building program for the central and local levels was prepared
and financed to help municipalities implement their PAP; and (iv) a specific approach
considering metropolitan and inter-communal needs had been developed during project
preparation to deal with the Greater Dakar Area and the inter-communal infrastructures.
23.    Lessons learned from Senegal and other sub-Saharan countries are also reflected
in the project design. Targeting a large number of municipalities is possible if sound


                                            6
mechanisms are in place (under the responsibility of the MDA). By further supporting
well-crafted programming tools and clear rules of the game, the LADP had incrementally
and progressively been able to help all municipalities, including CADAK and CAR, and
entice all urban local governments to adhere to the discipline and culture of municipal
contracts and enhanced transparency.
24.     Municipal contracts and audits do work. Experience in Senegal, Guinea,
Mauritania and Niger helped establish the concept of municipal contracts in sub-Saharan
Africa. The use of municipal audits for providing baseline information on the spatial,
organizational, and financial attributes of Senegalese municipalities is now at the center
of the system under the LADP and helped shape municipal programs justified on priority
needs set in local realities and expressed at the local level.
25.     Capacity building works better if it is integrated in a contractual arrangement
and linked to investment, rather than if it is a free-standing component. Many urban
projects have not yielded the expected results on capacity building and institutional
strengthening because they were too disconnected from local realities and not linked to
the investment incentives. The municipal adjustment programs derive from the financial
and organizational audits and are therefore tied to local needs and targeted to specific
goals and commitments.

2.2 Implementation
26.     The project in the amount of SDR 53.8 million (US$80 million) was approved by
the Board on July 18, 2006. The financing agreement was signed on July 26, 2006 and
became effective on January 22, 2007. The introduction of a specific condition for
effectiveness by the Bank, linked to the approval of the national procurement code (Code
des Marchés Publics) and its use by the CMA and the Project Implementation Entity,
slightly delayed effectiveness, as there was no direct link between the project and
approval of the code.
27.    The project has been restructured three times with no impact on its design or
development objectives (DO).
28.    A first restructuring took place in October 2011 to extend the initial closing date
from December 31, 2011 to September 30, 2013 to allow the completion of works
delayed by ineffective implementation performances from AGETIP and weaknesses in
implementing institutional support measures attributable to MDA.
29.     A second extension of the closing date, from September 30, 2013 to December 16,
2013, was granted on September 12, 2013. The purpose was to allow time for the project
to address the impacts of poor rainwater drainage system in the neighborhood “Camille
Basse” in Rufisque resulting from the construction of a road financed under the project.
As the contract related to the road construction was still under implementation in
September 2013, it was recommended to amend the ongoing contract to include actions
to mitigate the risk of further flooding.
30.    The July 2012 fund reallocation allowed coverage of additional costs generated
by crucial additional works during implementation of the Dakar interurban roads program.
These works have addressed, among others, the widening of certain roads, the sidewalks,



                                            7
purging and loading of an old dump discovered in the hold of a program road, the change
in the road structure to take in account existing oil pipes discovered under the road, and
strengthening the axis passing through the wetland of Niayes.
31.    The mid-term review was carried out from February 1 to 12, 2010. It confirmed
that the development objectives were still valid and no restructuring was needed.
However, it highlighted the following areas for improvement: (i) institutional and
capacity building activities were lagging behind and needed to be more responsive; (ii)
the CMA (AGETIP) was clearly overloaded by other important projects and was not
paying enough attention to the project-financed works programs, leading to important
delays in implementation; (iii) a few municipalities were not reimbursing their loans to
the MDA, leading to the adjustment (reduction) of their investment program as per the
municipal contract. Corrective actions were implemented by MDA and AGETIP,
including specific short-term support for implementation of works through AGETIP

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
32.     A project performance monitoring framework was designed during project
preparation to provide the Bank and the Government with the appropriate data and M&E
indicators. The MDA was responsible for overall monitoring, production and
transmission of monitoring and performance indicators to the municipalities, the
Government and to IDA. It relied on CMA reporting for the indicators linked to
investment program implementation when appropriate. The main indicators, linked to
PDOs, were: (i) level of resource mobilization (percentage of revenue increase in urban
municipalities’ account); (ii) share allocated annually through the local authorities’
budget to finance infrastructure and maintenance; and (iii) number of persons benefiting
directly from at least one subproject. Other output indicators were identified to help
closely monitor the Program’s progress: (i) the performance indicators as presented in
Annex 3 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD); (ii) the performance monitoring
indicators of the 67 municipal contracts; (iii) periodic tracking and publishing of selected
financial ratios; and (iv) the MDA and the CMA’s own performance indicators. This said,
output indicators did not allow proper tracking of physical investments which are the
bulk of project financing. No specific indicators were linked directly to progress on
infrastructure assets implementation.
Implementation and utilization
33.    The M&E dispositions prepared before appraisal were used throughout the project
life. Although the very large amount of information to be collected created an important
workload at the MDA level, data was provided at least quarterly, twice yearly or yearly,
as planned. A web site was created and managed by the MDA to increase the
dissemination of project and sector information as well as transparency. It also aimed at
making the key reports and studies accessible to the public. In addition to providing
information for M&E, this data collection helped the MDA provide the Government with
important sector analyses, including some leading to publication (on paper and internet)
for the public. Therefore, the role of the MDA, as a sustainable agency aimed at
supporting the decentralization process, was reinforced. Some of the indicators and other


                                             8
data are still being collected by the MDA as input to specific reports. As designed, the
M&E framework did not allow proper monitoring on physical assets. This could have
been mitigated by adding some additional indicators at early stages or at MTR, focusing
on a set of critical assets. This said, the disbursement rate and the level of direct
beneficiaries allowed tracking progress on infrastructure and assets.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment and social safeguards
34.   The project was categorized as Category B as no major environmental impacts
were identified. Safeguards policies triggered were OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement).
35.     A project Environmental Assessment (EA), Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were
prepared, approved and published before Approval. In addition, by Mid-Term Review,
the Bank had approved three key documents to improve the environmental management
of the project: an updated version of the ESMF and RPF, the Project Implementation
Manual for Environment and Social Management and an institutional diagnosis. The
MDA also developed and successfully utilized an environmental and social screening
mechanism to help categorize the small subprojects submitted by the 67 municipalities.
According to this mechanism, the MDA produced simplified or detailed environmental
and social analyses. A few simplified resettlement plans were also produced. All detailed
environmental and social analyses, as well as all resettlement plans produced, were
approved by the Bank. Appropriate mitigation measures were prepared and implemented,
or included in bidding documents when appropriate.
36.    The program of large inter-communal investments benefited from specific
environmental and social screening. Specific environmental and social analyses,
environmental and social management plans and resettlement plans were produced. The
recommendations were approved by the Bank, implemented and monitored as
appropriate. Environmental and social reviews were carried out by Bank staff and by the
MDA with external consultants to ensure quality of environment and social activities,
including resettlement, and confirm they were adequately using the Bank procedures.
Fiduciary compliance
37.     Procurement. Given the capacity shortcomings of the local authorities,
procurement was done essentially through two existing institutions: (i) the MDA, which
was responsible for procurement under the Municipal Adjustment Program (recruiting
consultants and training agencies), implementing cross-cutting institutional support,
technical and financial audits, and consultants for M&E (Component A); and (ii)
AGETIP responsible for procurement of works infrastructure (Component B).
Procurement management has been overall satisfactory as both agencies were familiar
with World Bank procedures and both had procurement units. Procurement reviews were
carried out to ensure quality of procurement by these agencies and confirm they were
adequately using the Bank procedures. Three external technical audits were carried out:
one in 2010 for MTR, and two by Scet Tunisie in 2011 and 2013. They all included a
review of the procurement activities by the two agencies.


                                           9
38.     As requested by the Bank during project preparation, procurement activities for a
few municipalities were handled by Regional Development Agencies (RDA) recently
created by the Government. The purpose of this recommendation was to test a substitute
to AGETIP and support the decentralization framework put in place by the Government.
Ten RDAs were involved in implementation in 19 communes. Specific technical
assistance was provided by the MDA to the RDAs. Although each RDA could not handle
an important volume of procurement activities, or handle large contracts, the test
demonstrated that RDAs can offer a valid solution for small-scale procurement activities
in small communes.
39.      Financial management. The MDA was also responsible for the financial
management of all project activities, including consolidation of financial data provided
by the CMA. A Finance and Administrative Director and an External Auditor with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank were recruited at the MDA. An
Internal Auditor was recruited by the MDA during project implementation to improve
internal controls. The external audits were produced on a regular basis. MDA’s
administrative, accounting and financial manual were approved at the beginning of the
project and updated when needed. Adequate reporting was made available to the Bank
most of the time, whereas some shortcoming have been noticed in internal controls. As a
result, the overall financial management was Moderately Satisfactory to the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
40.     A closing workshop was held in Dakar on November 29, 2013 to disseminate the
main achievements of the LADP, and engage the main stakeholders in discussions on the
lessons to learn from the project. The workshop was also an opportunity to assess the
relevance of the tools (organizational, urban and financial audits, among others) used in
project implementation. Annex 6 outlines the main take-aways from this closing seminar.
41.    Towards the closing of the project, the World Bank Task Team started engaging
in discussions with the Ministry of Local Authorities and Decentralization and LADP
project counterparts, to better understand the implications of the Third Act of
Decentralization launched in December 2013, and explore how the Senegalese
Government and the Bank could further support Senegalese municipalities in the light of
this new reform.
42.     In May 2014, the World Bank task team organized a brainstorming session with
the main stakeholders from the urban and local development field in Senegal. One
purpose of the session was to share findings from Bank-supported activities in Senegal,
namely “Enhancing revenues for the Municipality of Dakar’’ and the “Senegal
urbanization review’’ and to orientate next phases based on the session’s outcomes. In
addition, the meeting engaged main actors in discussions on the multiple highly
ambitious spatial development agendas of the Senegalese Government, ranging from the
new generation of decentralization, competitive and growth poles, among others. This
activity engaged staff from Ministries (Housing and Urban Planning, Local Authorities
and Decentralization), the Municipality of Dakar, AGEROUTE, MDA, PREM Bank staff,
French Development Agency.
43.    The team also took the opportunity of this mission to hold working sessions with


                                           10
the main development partners actively supporting municipalities and the
decentralization process in Senegal, namely the French Development Agency (AFD) and
the German Cooperation (GIZ/KFW). More particularly, the Bank team discussed
opportunities to prepare a multi-donor program to support the Senegalese decentralization
agenda with the German Cooperation, and possibly AFD. With regard to a follow-up
activity to the LADP, AFD clearly expressed its readiness to further engage, as a co-
financier, in the next phases. The AFD team is currently working on its own LADP
assessment report and targets early 2015 for an effective re-engagement on a potential
LADP follow-up project.
44.     Lastly, the MDA has been active in the post-completion activities of the project:
the Agency successfully organized the project closing workshop, produced a short video
with interviews of all stakeholders on the impacts of the LADP and is currently recruiting
a consultant to conduct a study capitalizing the lessons learned from the project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives
45.     The project had two development objectives: (i) strengthen the capacity of urban
municipalities to improve resource mobilization, and municipal and urban management;
and (ii) increase access to and quality of public infrastructure and services in urban areas.
46.     These objectives were and remained relevant during project implementation. The
objectives were coherent with the ones of the previous UDDP, aiming at providing a
clear focus for further improvements of: (i) overall management of Senegalese
municipalities; (ii) programming and implementation of investments; and (iii)
strengthening and rationalizing of the financing mechanisms. The objectives were also
adapted to the prevailing situation of the urban communes and the urban sector in
Senegal, and focused on the main issues identified. A rapid pace of urbanization and
increased pressure on existing services and infrastructure were triggering the need to: (i)
reinforce the role of secondary cities, mainly regional capitals, as development poles to
limit population exodus from the regions, thus decreasing the burden on the Dakar
metropolitan area; and (ii) invest in the Dakar Metropolitan Area to address the lack of
proper structuring infrastructure facilities that were not financed during the past two
decades. The project provided a tool for supporting and accelerating implementation of
the decentralization process, based on already approved institutional reforms. It also took
into consideration the important management issues within the Greater Dakar Area.
Moreover, the project provided tools for the Government to streamline fiscal transfers
from central to local level as part of its core functions.
47.     Further, and at appraisal, the project matched the strategic orientations of the 2001
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed at the Board in April 2003. These were to: (i) promote good governance and
strengthen the rule of law; (ii) reinforce local development by strengthening
decentralization and good governance at the local level; (iii) accelerate development of
basic infrastructure to increase access to services for all and to develop human capital;


                                             11
and (iv) increase investment and reinforce competitiveness of production systems,
notably in infrastructure. One of the major objectives of the CAS is to help expand the
supply of infrastructure and services, most prominently among the poor, to lower service
costs and to promote private sector development. A new CAS was under preparation
(planned then for December 2006) and was confirming economic growth, private sector
development, delivery of social services and rural and urban synergies as a main focus.
48.    The objectives of the project remained relevant during implementation, as the
country and Bank priorities were unchanged. The objectives were confirmed at MTR as
the Government did not ask for any modification in the project design or objectives. They
stayed valid in a tough local economic and social context faced with many difficulties.
49.     The objectives of the project to improve quality and access to basic services by
the Senegalese citizens remain relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
(FY 2013-2017) which aims to: (i) strengthen the governance framework and build
resilience; (ii) accelerate growth and create employment; and (iii) improve services
delivery. The current CPS indeed focuses on assisting the Government to improve the
allocation and effectiveness of expenditures and the impact on results, particularly in the
social sectors.
50.    This strategy reflects Senegal’s current’s development needs, as the 2013-2017
PRSP points out that the lack of access to basic social services is one of the main
constraints to Senegal’s growth. The LADP objective to strengthen the urban
municipalities’ capacity to improve resource mobilization, and municipal and urban
management remain highly relevant in the light of the Third Decentralization Act
(December 2013). This objective also espouses the PRSP recommendation to accompany
the promotion of good local governance with empowerment of local and regional
communities.

Design
51.      The project was prepared on the basis of previous operations in Senegal and other
SSA countries aimed at supporting the cities in an evolving decentralization framework.
Therefore, the design was well-prepared and adapted to this important challenge. The
balance between institutional and investment components was well-weighted, with the
investment component providing enough incentive for the implementation of the
institutional reform programs. As a result, the project design remained adequate and well-
focused on the DO.
52.    The project design took into consideration and further supported the use of the
MDA as implementation agency and the use of AGETIP as CMA for a two-year period
covering 48 out of 67 municipal contracts. The dispositive allowed for the possibility to
monitor key elements of the decentralization policy, thus providing an important
opportunity for the Government to assess the impacts of its decentralization policy.
However, the overload of the CMA (AGETIP) after effectiveness was not expected.
When it materialized, mitigation measures were identified and implemented, except the
approval of the CMA Law which could have made the creation of other CMA possible.
The use of the Regional Development Agencies (ARDs) for a limited number of
municipalities allowed for demonstration of an alternate solution, which could be used



                                            12
for small cities in a potential subsequent project.
53.     The municipal contract, linking, at local level, institutional reforms, priority
investment programs and maintenance programs into a single document was at the core
of the project achievements. This system is now widely used throughout SSA and helped
the municipalities internalize: (i) the use of municipal, urban and financial audits; (ii) the
preparation, implementation and monitoring of maintenance activities; and a reciprocal
commitment between the central and local levels, including access to financing based on
monitoring impartial elements. It also helped prepare and disseminate data on urban
municipalities (guide of financial ratios, urban atlases) and other operational guides in
support of project activity (subproject submission procedures, environment and social
screening).
54.     The design of institutional development and capacity building activities was based
on a solid knowledge of the sector issues, based on a continuous presence of IDA in the
urban sector since 1972. The activities financed under the project targeted the issues
identified through three different angles: (i) municipal, through support provided to the
67 urban municipalities built into the municipal contracts; (ii) inter-communal, through
assistance provided to CADAK and CAR, aimed at strengthening their impact on
structuring infrastructure in the GDA; and (iii) national, through support to ministries and
national institutions, aimed at easing implementation and strengthening the overall
positive impact of the project.
55.   A need for changing the design of the project was not identified during
implementation.

Implementation
56.    All institutions in charge of project implementation existed prior to the project
and are expected to be sustainable.
57.     As per the legal documents, the Government was responsible for overall project
implementation. The political situation prevailing at the national level around and after
the local elections of March 2009 and during preparation of the presidential elections of
March 2012 did not help the Government focus on the project. Important disorders took
place from December 2011 to the proclamation of the election’s result in March 2012. In
spite of this demanding environment, the Government implemented the decentralization
policy as defined in the Letter of Sector Policy prepared under the previous project and
which remained valid. The Government also exceeded the financing targets set up under
the project and adequately managed the fiscal transfers to local authorities (although with
delays), in particular increasing the FECL from US$9.8 million in 1998 to US$33.8
million in 2013. It financed its share (50 percent of the MDA’s operating costs) and
various legal and administrative measures that allowed for continued MDA functioning,
including facilitating implementation of municipal contracts. However, it was not
successful in the creation of efficient inter-communal bodies (CADAK and CAR), and
management of the GDA remains to be improved. It did not succeed in: (i) submitting to
the National Assembly a law improving the current legal framework for contract
management delegation planned before MTR (Loi MOP, prepared under the project); and
(ii) approving a reform of the FECL (considered under the project) increasing the



                                              13
financial transfers to the local authorities, as planned. Finally, it created an important
number of new urban communes, putting at risk its own decentralization framework and
increasing the need for fiscal transfer without adequate accountability.
58.     The Municipal Development Agency (MDA) was created for implementing the
UDDP in 1997 and was selected as the implementing agency for this project by both
financiers. This constant support helped further strengthen the agency, preparing MDA to
handle more challenging tasks (increasing the number of urban communes from 67 to
172 under Phase 3 decentralization reforms). The MDA was tasked with preparing and
implementing municipal contracts in all 67 communes and assisting CADAK and CAR to
define and implement their investment programs. The agency’s performance was mostly
satisfactory. It also satisfactorily implemented or supervised implementation of all
capacity building programs, monitored implementation of the maintenance programs and
oversaw implementation of the PIPs by the CMA. The MDA carried out all financial and
management audits, technical audits, and environment and social activities. It prepared or
updated implementation manuals as expected and provided adequate information related
to implementation. It seized the opportunity to work with ILO for improving the impact
of subprojects on employment through support to development of labor-intensive
methods.
59.      AGETIP was selected as the Contract Management Agency (CMA). AGETIP was
the primary agency to procure and oversee contracts for studies, works and supervision
for the 67 municipal PIPs and for the inter-communal investment. AGETIP was selected
in 2006 by the MDA for a two-year period and implemented 48 PIPs and two inter-
communal investment programs. The mandatory use of the national procurement code
(Code des marchés publics) (replacing its own Manual of Procedures in 2007), as well as
the lack of a self-directed LADP unit within AGETIP, and an already overloaded
capacity created a noticeable slowdown of procurement activities (e,g., lack of
responsiveness, slow set-up of the Direction Centrale des Marchés Publics (DCMP) -
double review of procurement decisions). Starting in 2009, the MDA used the ARDs to
support the communes in contract management (19 PIPs). The ARDs were faced with the
same difficulties (use of the new Code des Marchés Publics and upsurge of procurement
activities). However, AGETIP and ARDs implemented most of the works, after two
extensions of the Closing Date (total of 23.5 months).
60.     Municipalities were responsible for: (i) defining the content of municipal
contracts in coordination and consultation with local communities and the MDA; (ii)
ensuring proper implementation of these municipal contracts directly or through the
CMA or the MDA; and (iii) implementing PMP and MAP. These tasks were carried out
satisfactorily despite issues raised, mostly on investment programs, after the regional and
local elections of March 2009. In addition, less than half of the municipalities eligible for
a loan under the UDDP were able to repay their loan. A few of them were also unable to
meet their monthly payments (combined reimbursement of credit and counterpart funds)
making them ineligible for project financing and leading to partial or total cancellation of
a few work programs.

61.   The implementation arrangements proved relevant and there was no need to
change them. The Government, despite the changing political situation and goals,


                                             14
confirmed the implementation set up, and in particular the important roles of the MDA
and CMA throughout project implementation. No unusual turnover of high-level staff had
to be noticed within MDA and CMA during this period.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

62.     Achievement of PDO is rated Satisfactory. Assessment of the degree of
achievement of the PDO is based on progress made in the two areas of the PDO: (i)
strengthening the capacity of urban municipalities to improve resource mobilization, and
municipal and urban management; and (ii) increasing access to and quality of public
infrastructure and services in urban areas. By project’s end, all three key PDO indicators
were reached, and all relevant targets have been exceeded:

   (a) The level of resource mobilization in the targeted 67 municipalities was increased
       by 55.9 percent, significantly exceeding the targeted value of 30 percent. This
       result was supported through an intensive program aimed at strengthening the 67
       communes, CADAK and CAR. Beyond comprehensive capacity building
       activities, operational tools aimed at increasing the tax basis and resource
       mobilization were financed and successfully implemented, including: street
       signing operations in cities of 50,000 inhabitants or more (aerial photograph
       campaigns, city maps, creation of street signing units in the cities); setting up of
       fiscal cadaster in 13 cities; implementation of dedicated software for tax and
       accounting management.
   (b) The annual allocation of local revenue to finance infrastructure maintenance had
       reached 10.84 percent, exceeding the 7 percent target. Most of the 67 communes
       reached their individual target (98 percent in 2007, 91 percent in 2008, 96 percent
       in 2012) confirming the positive impact of making priority maintenance programs
       a key element of the municipal contract.
   (c) The number of people benefiting from at least one subproject surpassed the target
       of 1,550,000 persons with 1,653,000 direct beneficiaries towards the end of the
       project. This was achieved though implementation of more than CFAF31.6 billion
       (equivalent to about US$64.8 million) of inter-communal investment programs
       and priority investment programs in the 67 urban municipalities.
63.     The first key DO indicator clearly shows the success of the project vis-à-vis the
resource mobilization. The improvement of municipal and urban management is more
difficult to monitor, but the result of the preparation and implementation of the municipal
contracts (monitored as output under Component B) is clearly positive. The
municipalities are now able to prepare annual maintenance plans (monitored through the
second DO objective), identify investments based on economic, social and environmental
impacts, and follow up on the work program with the CMA.
64.     The second objective on public infrastructure and services aimed to increase
access to, and quality of these infrastructure and services. The third key DO indicator
clearly shows the success of the project vis-à-vis the impact of the project-financed
investment on the beneficiaries. The setup of a clear contractual framework with a range
of operators, acting from identification of subprojects to completion of works, developed


                                            15
a technical culture within the municipalities and a result-based behavior leading to
enhancement of the quality of works and services through community involvement. A
specific post-assessment, not planned under the project, could have provided more
information on this achievement (i.e. percentage of users satisfied with the rehabilitation
or upgrading of the infrastructure or service under the project).
65.      The results indicators for each component were also mostly reached or exceeded:
      a) Improved management tools and financial resources. As planned, the provisional
         budget reports prepared by the Treasury were approved before March 31 of each
         year increased significantly (100percent for the last two years versus 95percent
         planned). The number of municipal budgets after generation by the municipalities
         also reached 100 percent (90percent planned). After a slow start, the direct
         mobilization of non-tax revenues by the municipalities took off and increased by
         131 percent versus the planned 50 percent. The only target not met is the number
         of municipalities on time with their repayments (18 versus 40), although the
         global amount repaid slightly exceeded the target (97percent versus 95percent
         planned). This is likely due to the national economic context, an overestimated
         borrowing capacity of mid-size Senegalese municipalities, and a lack of built-in
         incentives to reimburse the loans under the project.
      b) Improved access to public infrastructure and services. As expected, the indicators
         were mostly reached (67 city contracts signed, 100percent of PIPs committed,
         98.5percent sub-projects implemented on time). The only shortcoming was on
         actual disbursements due to the delays at AGETIP level. Municipalities were
         slower than expected in effectively using facilities (only 79percent in less than six
         months after completion of works). Although only 60 out of 67 municipalities
         were reaching or exceeding their individual customized target for maintenance
         funding, it has to be noted that the global consolidated amount dedicated to
         maintenance for the 67 municipalities exceeded 10 percent versus 7 percent
         planned (PDO indicator).
         In total, the project allowed financing of: 103 kilometers of road network, 178
         kilometers of public electricity network, 18 kilometers of potable water network,
         20 administrative buildings, 43 social and community facilities, 26 market
         infrastructures (markets and bus stations), 19 sanitary facilities (health posts and
         health centers), the rehabilitation of 2 historical sites in Gorée and Saint Louis,
         and 2 elementary schools. This allowed: (i) improved inter-city and intra-city
         mobility thus improving economic opportunities and reducing transport times; (ii)
         improved access to health services and facilities in the selected areas targeting
         especially the poorest and most vulnerable and improving urban hygiene; (iii)
         promotion of youth- and gender-based activities as well as improved access to
         education; (iv) improved access to serviced markets; (v) improved local
         authorities’ capacity to deliver basic administrative needs; (vi) improved urban
         and peri-urban security; (vii) improved access to quality water; (vii) reduced
         vulnerability to flooding in targeted areas among other impacts; and (ix)
         preserving and enhancing Senegal’s national heritage in Gorée and Saint Louis.
      c) MDA and CMA are operational and efficient. All indicators were basically met.


                                              16
        However, external factors (significant increase of the AGETIP portfolio due to,
        inter alia, the Toll Highway implemented on behalf of the President’s Office)
        created a bottleneck within AGETIP. As a result, and despite mitigation measures
        implemented, portions of the work program were delayed, triggering an important
        extension of the Closing Date (23.5 months).

3.3 Efficiency
66.    At the scale of the whole country, the project had a significant impact, with a
US$133.6 million disbursed, equivalent to one percent of the GDP of Senegal in 2012.
About half of this financing, US$66.5 million, equivalent to 0.5 percent of the GDP of
2012, was made by IDA.
67.     Most of this financing was made though municipal and inter-communal
investment programs. The works mainly consisted of rehabilitation and extension of road
infrastructure (84.8percent of total spending), with the remaining including construction
or rehabilitation of health centers (6 centers); electrical, water and sewerage networks
(respectively 17.5, 21.5 and 7.2 additional kilometers); city halls; revenue collection and
public offices; local market places; bus stations and socio-cultural facilities.
68.     According to an ex-post evaluation carried out by the Bank team, the project
brought important economic returns. Based on a discount rate of 12 percent, the overall
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project supported by IDA amounts to a minimum
of 26.8 percent. The details are presented in Annex 3 and are based on: (i) additional
demand for labor and goods and services directly generated by the project; (ii) user’s
benefits and contribution to additional growth of road infrastructure; (iii) health gains;
and (iv) benefits from electrification.
69.     The activities implemented under Component A aimed at strengthening the
municipalities’ capacity to improve resources mobilization and in particular to increase
tax collection through better governance and capacity building. While the goal was to
obtain an increase of municipalities’ revenues by 30 percent, the actual growth over the
period 2005 - 2014 was 55.9 percent. Over the 2006-2013 period, the amount of tax
revenues collected by the municipalities supported by the LADP has effectively increased
more rapidly (by 54.9 percent) than in the country as a whole (48.3percent), with most of
the increase at the end of the project period (esp. 2012). Analysis of the evolution of tax
revenues by commune reveals mixed results. The assistance of the LADP was more
effective in the poorest regions. Since 2007, 24 communes (36 percent) have managed to
increase local tax revenues at a higher pace than GDP growth (32.6percent over 2007-
2012 in nominal terms). More importantly, in Tambacounda, Kolda and Kedougou which
are the poorest regions of Senegal 1 , tax revenues almost doubled or substantially
increased (by 181 percent, 199 percent and 42.5 percent, in the capital cities respectively).




1
 In 2011, 52.9% of the population of Tambacouda belong to the 10% poorest households of Senegal,
54.4% of the population of Kolda and 61.3% of the population of Kedougou (ASDN, enquete)


                                                 17
In the poorest regions, the LADP helped to relieve budget constraints by at least
US$1.7 million2.
70.     Overall, the implementation of Component B alone resulted in US$19.6 million in
spending on labor costs (direct and indirect). The inter-communal road construction
program (27 kilometers, including drainage and street lighting) is the major achievement
of the project, spending US$28.3 million with an ERR of 57 percent, in range with what
was expected during Appraisal (54 percent). Including road infrastructure works in
provinces (about 40.6 kilometers, US$8 million), the overall ERR is 15 percent.
71.     This ex-post evaluation does not include the economic returns of other successful
impacts of the LADP such as: (i) the social benefit of relieving public budget constraints
in the poorest areas; (ii) the health gains for all age categories from opening and
upgrading health care centers; (iii) the health gains from extending drinking water and
wastewater systems; (iii) the higher social cohesion and safety from the construction and
rehabilitation of socio-cultural facilities and infrastructure; and (iv) the impact on
education and human capital of better roads, health and access to electricity. Without
considering those impacts, the returns are high and demonstrate that the project was
unambiguously successful.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
72.     The project’s relevance remains high, based on the current decentralization
agenda in Senegal, and achieved its development objective, as measured by the PDO
indicators. This is further substantiated by intermediate outcome indicators and
supporting evidence, including the ex-post analysis on development impacts and
economic returns. The Satisfactory rating upgrade over the Moderately Satisfactory
rating on achievement of DO in the last ISR is fully justified by the relevance, available
results data, and positive economic and financial analysis.
73.     On the basis of the indicators, the overall outcome rating could have been Highly
Satisfactory. However, a few external factors hampered project implementation and
limited its success:
    a) The economic and financial international crisis had a very strong negative impact
       on the national context and the growth rate. As a result, fiscal transfers expected
       from the Government through the FECL were late, especially during the 2007-
       2009 period (one year delay).
    b) The strengthening of CADAK and CAR was not at par with expectations.
       Political considerations regarding the role of their leaders and on the GDA solid
       waste management strategy compromised the development of a strong local
       power needed to manage an area comprising half of the urban population or a
       quarter of the entire population of the country.



2
  Amount collected above the amount these municipalities had collected if tax collection had progressed at
the same pace than GDP.


                                                    18
    c) The internal arrangements and, later, the mitigation measures inside AGETIP
       were not enough to align the performance to the expectations. Although AGETIP
       was, and probably still is, the best solution for contract management in Senegal, it
       reached a level where important internal management decisions must be identified
       and implemented to restore an adequate performance level.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
74.     Although the PDO indicator did not specifically target the number of women
benefitting from the project, it is possible to make some general qualitative statements
about the project’s impact with respect to gender. The sanitary infrastructure financed the
LADP not only contributed to improved access to basic social services (health), but also
helped reduce mortality rates of the most vulnerable populations, especially children and
pregnant women.
75.     The project has also financed 43 socio-community facilities, among them
stadiums, community centers, schools, women centers, shelters. These facilities had
significant impacts on the targeted populations, namely in terms of (i) promotion of youth
and women’s activities, by improving access to related infrastructure; and (ii) increased
access to education by increasing the number of classes.
76.     Lastly, the economic analysis (detailed in Annex 3) reveals that LADP was more
effective in the poorest regions. Since 2007, 24 communes (36 percent) have managed to
increase local tax revenues at a higher pace than GDP growth (32.6 percent over 2007-
2012 in nominal terms). More importantly, in Tambacounda, Kolda and Kedougou, the
poorest regions of Senegal 3, tax revenues almost doubled or substantially increased (by
181 percent, 199 percent and 42.5 percent, in the capital cities, respectively). In the
poorest regions, the project helped relieved budget constraints by at least US$1.7 million4.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
77.    The project made the best use of an efficient framework created in 1997 for a
limited number of communes (60 communes). There were 67 urban communes and 43
urban districts (Communes d’arrondissements) during project preparation. Although
ambitious, the objective of supporting a program for these 67 communes was doable by
the Government and the MDA. In 2008, 46 additional communes were created, with
another 16 created during the 2008-2011 period. This resulted in a total of 172 communes.
A new decentralization reform is under preparation in Senegal following the 2012
presidential elections. Although the institutional framework is still adequate, this reform
needs to be carefully prepared to ensure adjustments if needed, and result in an



3
  In 2011, 52.9% of the majority of households in Tambacouda (52.9%) Kolda (54.4%) and Kedougou
(61.3%) were among the 10% poorest households in Senegal (ASDN, enquete )
4
  Amount collected above the amount these municipalities had collected if tax collection had progressed at
the same pace than GDP.


                                                    19
improvement of urban management, resource mobilization and quality of infrastructure
and services.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
78.     The World Bank team and MDA jointly organized a closing seminar on
November 29, 2013 to disseminate the main achievements of the project and engage the
main stakeholders in discussions on the lessons to take from the project. The discussions
confirmed the relevance of both the municipal contract approach and the tools
(organizational, urban and financial audits, among others) used in implementation of the
project. One of the main lessons learned from the closing seminar is the need to rethink
the support to Senegalese municipalities in the light of the Third Decentralization Act
launched in Senegal in December 2013.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
79.      The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate, based on:
      a) The beneficial social and economic impacts of the works carried out are unlikely
         to disappear. The infrastructure built under the project is unlikely to disappear.
         As it was identified through a participatory approach during the preparation of the
         municipal contracts, one could expect that the support from the population will
         provide a strong incentive to use and maintain those assets;
      b) Local resources mobilization exceeded expectations, with Municipalities making
         good use of the additional resources. On average, the share of the local
         municipalities’ budget allocated to maintenance now reaches 10percent. Although
         this could be increased to ensure full maintenance of equipment and
         infrastructures, the project demonstrated the importance of such an activity; and
      c) The Government commitment to increasing fiscal transfers and improving the
         decentralization framework. The development of improved management tools and
         financial resources at the municipal level is a strong orientation of the
         Government, as demonstrated by the preparation of a new decentralization
         reform. In addition to a clarification of the existing framework, this move will
         help follow up with the capacity building programs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
80.      The identification was carried out in January 2005 under the responsibility of a
seasoned Bank team supplemented with consultants when needed. Both Bank staff and
consultants were familiar with the Senegalese urban sector as they were previously
involved in the supervision of the UDDP. Another seasoned Task Team Leader (TTL)
was selected mid-2005 after the closing of the UDDP to move forward to appraisal and
later, supervision. This TTL was based in-country and remained in Dakar until mid-2011,


                                             20
providing stability of responsibility on the Bank’s side. This made it easier to liaise with
the client. It also helped build on lessons learned in the country and elsewhere in SSA to
present a program of activities that could adequately build on the previous operation and
address the needs of the communes, CADAK and CAR.
81.     Appraisal took place one year later in January 2006, building on the long-term
presence of the Bank in the Senegalese urban sector since 1972. Cross-sectoral relations
were also developed during preparation of a similar IDA-financed operation planned for
the rural sector (Participatory Local Development Program (Cr. 4166-SE) ensuring
consistence between approaches. Close cooperation was developed with the other donor
active in the Senegalese urban sector (AFD) which allowed for joint identification and
appraisal missions, a substantial amount of co-financing (US$18 million equivalent) and
a single project design and implementation mechanism approved by both donors.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
82.     The first supervision mission took place in December 2006. Two supervision
missions were carried out each year from 2007 to 2012, and four supervision missions
were carried out in 2013, the last year of implementation of the project. More than half
of the supervision missions (10 of 17) were carried out jointly with the AFD, developing
better donor coordination, a common understanding on the urban sector issues and a joint
vision on the reform programs needed. The alignment of the two donors also helped
reinforce the capacity of the MDA for dealing with the numerous challenges.
83.    The project benefited from team and TTL continuity until mid-2011. The
presence of the TTL in-country until mid-2011 allowed for strong coordination with ad-
hoc missions from HQ-based staff when needed. It also facilitated transfer of knowledge
and close follow-up on issues critical to project’s success.
84.     Procurement reviews, as well as environment and social dedicated missions took
place, compelling the implementing agencies to strictly follow IDA procedures and
regulations and providing support when needed (including training). As a result, the
project complied with Bank fiduciary and safeguards policies. The relevant frameworks
approved by the Bank during preparation were updated at Bank request during
supervision to increase quality.
85.     The MTR took place in February 2010. It confirmed that the PDOs were still
valid and recommended no restructuring. A reassessment of the risks was also made. As
a result, the rating of three risks worsened (support to CADAK and CAR, FECL reform
and bottlenecks at AGETIP and MDA). Action plans were prepared to enhance the
expected positive impact of the project. They were monitored and updated as needed until
Closing.
86.     A second TTL took over in mid-2011 and was a former team member for the
supervision of the project for many years, ensuring a solid continuity of the Bank position.
However, this transition caused a slow-down of project implementation pace due to
delays in no-objections and pending the resolution of numerous contract management
issues. The TTL was responsible until September 2013, three months before the closing



                                            21
date of December 16, 2013, and was replaced at the time of the Closing mission of
November 2013 and for the preparation of the ICR.
87.    A Closing seminar was held in November 2013 to take stock of project
implementation, draw relevant lessons to learn from of the project and share potential
improvements with stakeholders and donors. This facilitated the design of needed
Technical Assistance to pave the way for a Bank re-engagement in support to the
Senegalese decentralization agenda.
88.    The Quality of Supervision was not constant; leading to some delays in
implementation. The overload of AGETIP’s work program by parallel Bank task teams
could have better managed. These delays, coupled with the slow-down of supervision
during transition in TTL-ship, have impacted the overall Quality of Supervision which is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
89.     The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality of supervision are
rated Satisfactory and Moderately Satisfactory, respectively. The Project preparation
benefited from the Bank extensive experience in the urban sector in Senegal and from
lessons learned from the UDDP. Project implementation could have benefited from more
consistent supervision efforts and thorough follow-up to implement relevant reforms.
This reduced overall Bank Performance to Moderately Satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
90.     The Government led the development efforts of the urban sector and worked
towards setting an enabling environment to support its ambitious decentralization policy.
During the preparation phase, the Government was open to preparing decisive measures,
improving legal and policy frameworks and coordinating with donors on a
comprehensive approach to be provided under the project. During implementation, the
Government has shown continuous commitment to the project and its development
objectives. It exercised adequate institutional oversight of the project. However, it failed
to provide counterpart funding through the FECL in a timely manner, reaching a one-year
delay negatively impacting the investment programs. Institutional disruptions and
governance issues at key periods during the project life affected the course of the
implementation and as a consequence, the Government was not able to: (i) submit the
Public Works Contract Law (MOP) by MTR to the National Assembly, as planned; (ii)
empower CADAK and CAR as needed; and (iii) pursue the reform of the FECL, while
creating a large number of new urban communes. The proposed future amendments of
the decentralization framework (Act III of the Decentralization) could provide an
opportunity to resolve these shortcomings.




                                            22
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
91.     The project was implemented by the MDA, using a CMA for the works: mostly
AGETIP and, at a later stage, RDAs. All these implementing agencies were always
available to the Bank supervision teams and worked together to resolve issues during
project preparation and implementation.
92.     The performance of the MDA is rated Satisfactory. The MDA had the
implementation responsibility for the overall project and for Components A and C.
Although all targets were not met and more could have been done in terms of capacity
building in the communes, the MDA made its way through a difficult context and
managed a complex institutional decentralization set-up. As a result, the MDA was
reinforced, the procedures and processes were confirmed or adjusted and the communes
were strengthened. The project was well-managed. Monitoring and evaluation activities
were carried out. Procurement activities and Environmental and Social Safeguards were
carried out following Bank guidelines. The MDA demonstrated its ability to act as an
operational arm of the Government in the decentralization area. Further progress could
occur providing a careful review of the lessons learned and clarification of the
decentralization framework, creating an enabling environment for a more accomplished
professionalism for MDA.
93.     The performance of AGETIP is rated Moderately Satisfactory. AGETIP
complied with terms and covenants of the credit agreements and the project agreements.
A project focal point was selected, and AGETIP carried out most of the works for which
it was contracted but did it with noticeable delays. The delays were triggered by : (i)
internal management organization and processes within AGETIP, not adequately
considering the number of contracts and work sites to manage; (ii) the request to use the
newly-approved national procurement code instead of the well-known manual of
procedures, which created double reviews and various other delays; (iii) constraints
linked to environmental and social procedures under the responsibility of other
administrations; and (iv) delays in the provision of counterpart funds (FECL) by the
Government. These bottlenecks and related mitigation measures were identified in due
time by MDA. However, all measures were not implemented as expected. Some were
beyond the responsibility of AGETIP (procurement code, counterpart funds), but the
need for internal management reform was not addressed, creating a severe bottleneck
leading to the non-completion of a few works contracts (see Annex 2).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
94.     Although the Borrower has satisfied most of its commitments and most of the
time satisfactorily implemented the project, on some occasions it did not act in a timely
manner or adequately to resolve unexpected issues. As a result, important project
activities were delayed and a few institutional issues remain unresolved (MOD, FECL
and fiscal transfer mechanism, upgrade of MDA status). However, the Government
confirmed a commitment to go ahead with a new decentralization agenda and finance the
balance of the few uncompleted contracts.


                                           23
6. Lessons Learned
95.    Need for strong support to communes in an evolving decentralized environment.
The willingness of the GoS to move forward with its decentralization agenda, during and
after the project, cannot occur without clear frameworks and a strong enabling
environment:
   a) At the commune level: (i) the finance departments require strong external support
      like the MDA to ensure regular and predictable finance transfers from the center
      and external donors, mix the financing flows, homogenize the transfer conditions
      (grant or loan) and processes, and provide timely technical assistance and
      training; and (ii) the technical departments, except in a few large cities, are unable
      to manage a significant number of contracts and workloads, especially if the flow
      of activities are uneven. In this case, the communes need to rely on a CMA.
   b) At the central level, the ministry in charge of decentralization and local authorities
      needs to focus more on the global framework, its consistency and its efficiency,
      rather than on implementation issues, in order to stay focused on the overall
      objective of decentralization. This includes increasing the overall quality and
      effectiveness of the system of governance, while increasing capacities at sub-
      national levels. In this case, the ministry needs to rely on a strong and professional
      institution able to carry out the various capacity building or investment programs
      approved by the Government.
96.      A clearer legal framework (Loi MOP, Public Works Contract Law) is needed to
support the development of CMA beyond AGETIP and evolution of the MDA as an
institution focused on financing service delivery in communes (on behalf of the
Government). A Loi MOP would also support strengthening structures, procedures and
practices.
97.     Relevance of the municipal contract and audits in the LADP. The use of the
municipal contract had proven to be relevant all through the project. Among all its
advantages, this municipal contract provided targeted municipalities with a form of a
multi-year plan negotiated at the local level. However, there is a need to update the
design of the municipal contract to better address (i) the difficulties for some
municipalities to live up to their commitments to pay back in due time (if at all), and (ii)
the current challenges faced by the Senegalese municipalities in the context of the Third
Act of Decentralization.
   -   Given the diversity of targeted municipalities and their different performances in
       the LADP, the option of having different types of contracts should be considered
       for: (i) municipalities with proven capacity to borrow and pay back in due time;
       (ii) those who could afford some self-financing; and (iii) those who could not do
       without a 100 percent subsidy.
   -   Updated municipal contracts should be performance-based, not only in financial
       terms but also on the level of service actually provided to the final beneficiaries.
   -   In the future, disciplinary measures should be considered for municipalities that
       have not reimbursed their loans. This is a guarantee of credibility, though



                                            24
       primarily a matter of fairness for the municipalities who have respected their
       engagements.
98.    Although the implementation tools (urban, financial and organizational audits)
had proven relevant since the UDDP, it is necessary to complement them with
performance-oriented tools, such as scaled Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment
(PEFA), performance-based municipal contracts, set up of minimal conditions for
equipment maintenance, among others.
99.      Sustainable financial mechanisms. Lending to local institutions remains
problematic in Senegal. The cleaning of the arrears of the CCC (Compte de Crédit
Communal) closed under the UDDP was possible and done under the LADP. The UDDP
opened the borrowing to many municipalities. However all municipalities were not able
or willing to stay on track with repayments and the gap increased. Payment defaults also
occurred with some of the operations under the LADP, causing PIP financing for these
municipalities to be cancelled or reduced (timely reimbursement of loans was an
eligibility criteria under the LADP). It is clear, from these experiences, that small or
medium-size cities in Senegal are not ready for lending. The results of the Dakar PEFA,
carried out during LADP implementation, show the slow implementation of a direct loan
made by the AFD to the city and the removal of a similar offer from IFC reflecting that,
even for a city like Dakar, there are still many risks. In addition, the size of the domestic
market is too small for the municipalities with the ability and willingness to borrow (and
to pay back).
100. Additionally, the capacity of MDA to further assume its financial role will not be
sustainable in the short term, especially in the context of the Third Act of
Decentralization where the number of municipalities is expected to significantly increase.
It seems that the ability to maintain a sustainable flow of financial transfers from the
center to the local level was not a criterion for the Government when the decision was
made to increase the number of communes from 67 to 172.
101. Although there may be opportunities for a few municipalities and cross-service
recovery costs to benefit from longer-term financing, it is very likely that most of
municipal financing would still depend on Government transfers and donor funds. A
rethinking of the organization of the cash flows from the traditional financiers
(Municipalities Maintenance Funds, projects, among others) is necessary. Opportunities
for diversified sources of funding (PPP, among others) should be explored, along with a
rethinking of the exact role of the MDA.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
102. The draft ICR was shared with the Borrower for comments. Comments received
from the Borrower have been incorporated in the current version.

(b) Co-financiers
103.   The AFD was the only co-financier. The following comments were received:



                                             25
104. AFD has financed the LADP up to € 15 million, in grants, to the Republic of
Senegal. This funding helped support investment and capacity building activities in three
Municipalities: Pikine, Guédiawaye and Bargny and partly in CADAK/CAR using the
same institutional arrangements as the World Bank. The program was implemented from
March 2006 to September 2013, following two extensions to complete delayed works.
105. This program reached its primary objective in providing people with basic public
services at large scale and in a large number of secondary urban municipalities, via
building needed infrastructure and services.
106. Investments and municipal support made through the city contracts signed
between municipalities and the MDA were a positive aspect of the program to the extent
that they allowed for a programmatic framework which was result-oriented, collaborative
and inclusive. It also included maintenance costs projections, constituting a reciprocal act
of engagement between the state and the municipality to strengthen the transfer of skills
and resources to the local level.
107. However, many difficulties and shortcomings have been encountered in the
implementation of the LADP and the quality of operations which certainly limited the
achievement of expected impacts. Works construction suffered from delays related to
defaulting companies and complex bureaucracy (including the effectiveness of the new
procurement code which required a time relatively significant for the main stakeholders
to adjust). Those resulted in a two-year program extension. In addition, some
shortcomings in work completion were registered at program closure). Moreover, some
municipalities were not sufficiently involved in projects supervision and monitoring,
reducing assets ownership. Indeed, some early implemented assets were quickly
deteriorated due to a lack of maintenance. This said, capacity building of related
communes on project development and management could have been better tailored to
ensure proper assets O&M. Finally, the spatial integration of infrastructure in their urban
environment has not always been optimal, due to constrained land availability.
108. Institutional support actions funded from three municipalities supported by AFD
actually improved management capacity of public services and local finances. However,
to sustain these achievements and ensure that municipalities may pursue more
independent and effective actions with regards to their municipal management and
planning of new investments, it seems essential that the Government deepens and
embodies policy guidelines established under the Act III of Decentralization, particularly
in the distribution of skills, tools and streamlining of local development agencies, local
taxation, financing of municipal and inter-municipal investment among others. It also
seems necessary that the urban contracts continues after the LADP as an instrument to
promote local development and planning. Urban contracts have indeed proven to be
essential for the sustainability of the financed assets.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

There was no other partner.




                                            26
                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
         Components              Estimate          Estimate
                                                                        Appraisal
                               (US$ million)     (US$ million)
Component A – Institutional
Development and Capacity           13.95              9.24                 8.9%
Building
Component B – Municipal and
Inter-communal Physical           124.53            134.15                79.3%
Investments
Component C – Support to
Project Implementation,             6.15             15.71                 4.2%
Monitoring and Evaluation
           Total Baseline Cost    144.63            159.10                92.1%
Physical Contingencies              6.22              0.00                 4.0%
Price Contingencies                 6.15              0.00                 3.9%
           Total Project Costs    157.00            159.10                100%
    Total Financing Required      157.00            159.10                100%


(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal Actual/Lates
                              Type of Co-                                 Percentage
      Source of Funds                          Estimate     t Estimate
                               financing                                 of Appraisal
                                             (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                        59.00          61.32         37.6%
France: French Agency for
                                                18.00          20.46         11.5%
Development (AFD)
International Development
                                                80.00          77.21         96.51
Association (IDA)




                                        27
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Institutional development and capacity building at the local and
central levels

   •   Street naming activities
   •   Updates of city maps dated 1997 for the municipalities of Mbour, Thiès, Kaolack,
       Ziguinchor, Rufisque, Saint Louis, Richard-Toll, Tambacounda, Mbaklé and
       Kolda.
   •   Urban sketches and geo-referenced ortho-photographs
   •   A simplified street naming plan of Dakar (scale 1/7500)
   •   Street naming software (ArcGIS, Autocad, among others)
   •   12 training modules which benefited more than 2600 decentralization
       stakeholders (elected officials, municipal agents, Treasury and Taxes agents,
       among others)
   •   Updates of accounting software COMMAIR and COLLOC
   •   Community development activities
   •   Urban, organizational and financial audits
   •   2 technical studies to support solid waste management activities in CADAK-CAR
   •   Continued technical assistance to CADAK-CAR

Component B: Municipal and inter-communal physical investments

The component funded the following activities:
   • 103 km of road network
   • 178 km of public electricity network
   • 18 km of potable water network
   • 20 administrative buildings
   • 43 social and community facilities
   • 26 market structures (markets and bus stations)
   • 19 sanitary facilities (health posts and health centers)
   • 2 historical sites in Gorée and Saint Louis
   • 2 elementary schools

Component C: Support to project implementation, monitoring and evaluation

   •   Operating costs for MDA
   •   Technical and financial audits
   •   Monitoring and evaluation: upgrading of the MDA’s integrated M&E system and
       project impact evaluation missions
   •   IEC for the program


                                            28
                                   Allocations and Disbursements by Donor and City
                                                              Distribution of provided funding

                                    Investment                    Grant system for local                     Investments
               Municipalities                                     governments (CADAK
                                     forecast 5    Self-Financing                            Subsidies        achieved
                                                                     et CAR) / Loans
                                                                     (Municipalities)

         CADAK
          IDA financial
         contribution            14,164,875,000                           1,416,487,500 12,748,387,500 15,146,916,265
          FDA financial
         contribution              6,090,000,000                            609,000,000     5,481,000,000 6,964,243,493
         CAR
          IDA financial
                                   6,208,840,000                            620,884,000     5,587,956,000 7,187,591,574
         contribution
                            Total 26,463,715,000                          2,646,371,500 23,817,343,500 29,298,751,332

         DAKAR URBAN COMMUNITY
          Dakar (IDA)              5,003,000,000     367,725,000          1,440,900,000     3,194,375,000 5,183,220,227
          Pikine (FDA)             2,254,641,504     161,598,113            616,392,451     1,476,650,940 2,251,314,159
          Guediawaye (FDA)         1,711,670,096     120,875,257            453,501,029     1,137,293,810 1,115,333,420
          Rufisque (IDA)           1,064,000,000      72,300,000            259,200,000       732,500,000 1,135,505,729
          Bargny (FDA)              927,362,732       62,052,205            218,208,820       647,101,708     906,273,310
                     Total Dakar 10,960,674,332      784,550,575          2,988,202,300     7,187,921,458 10,591,646,846

          Thiès                    3,291,000,000   239,325,000             618,200,000     2,433,475,000    3,092,505,930
          Kaolack                 3,683,000,000    268,725,000             696,600,000     2,717,675,000    3,376,385,155
          Ziguinchor              2,552,000,000    183,900,000             470,400,000     1,897,700,000    2,533,237,864
          Saint-Louis             2,815,000,000    203,625,000             523,000,000      2,088,375,000   2,815,003,127
          Diourbel                 1,096,000,000      74,700,000           179,200,000       842,100,000        40,056,858
          Louga                   1,231,000,000       84,825,000           206,200,000     939,975,000      1,228,471,147
          Tambacounda             1,341,000,000       93,075,000           228,200,000     1,019,725,000    1,324,949,826
          Fatick                   606,000,000        37,950,000            81,200,000       486,850,000      598,937,672
          Kolda                     844,000,000       55,800,000           128,800,000       659,400,000      846,429,715
          Matam                      253,000,000      11,475,000                             241,525,000      230,342,657
          Total for regional
          capital cities          17,712,000,000   1,253,400,000         3,131,800,000     13,326,800,000   16,086,319,951




5
    All amounts in FCFA

                                                                   29
                    OTHER MUNICIPALITIES (Grant System for Local Governments)
                  Investment                  Distribution of provided funding               Investments
Municipalities                                      Grant system for
                 forecast         Self-Financing                           Subsidies         achieved
                                                    local governments
Bakel               219,000,000        8,925,000                               210,075,000      215,354,339
Bignona             265,000,000       12,375,000                               252,625,000      258,952,642
Dioffior            200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      167,735,225
Gandiaye            200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      197,460,733
Guinguinéo          284,000,000       13,800,000                               270,200,000      261,399,443
Joal-Fadiouth       539,000,000       32,925,000    67,800,000                 438,275,000      180,390,315
Kanel               200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      204,550,430
Khombole            200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000        8,330,881
Linguère            252,000,000       11,400,000                               240,600,000      245,888,260
Marsassoum          200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      195,897,982
Mbacké              456,000,000       26,700,000    51,200,000                 378,100,000      447,793,026
Mbour             2,214,000,000      158,550,000    402,800,000              1,652,650,000    1,693,947,695
Ngékokh             200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      152,406,072
Nioro               265,000,000       12,375,000                               252,625,000      256,992,937
Richard Toll      1,402,000,000       97,650,000    240,400,000              1,063,950,000    1,344,277,809
Sédhiou             345,000,000       18,375,000    29,000,000                 297,625,000      321,223,262
Sokone              217,000,000        8,775,000                               208,225,000      213,957,089
Thiadiaye           226,000,000        9,450,000                               216,550,000      216,457,824
Thilogne            200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      197,709,644
Vélingara           299,000,000       14,925,000                               284,075,000      295,706,146
Waoundé             200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      196,833,173
Tivaouane           359,000,000       19,425,000    31,800,000                 307,775,000      355,200,000
Kaffrine            329,000,000       17,175,000    25,800,000                 286,025,000      301,591,793
Bambey              364,000,000       19,800,000    32,800,000                 311,400,000      328,555,271
Dagana              252,000,000       11,400,000                               240,600,000      233,882,816
Mékhé               247,000,000       11,025,000                               235,975,000      219,320,910
Ourossogui          203,000,000        7,725,000                               195,275,000      186,739,503
Koungueul           281,000,000       13,575,000                               267,425,000      241,957,682
Kédougou            289,000,000       14,175,000                               274,825,000      259,129,939
Kébémer             344,000,000       18,300,000    28,800,000                 296,900,000      312,877,275
Sébikotane          276,000,000       13,200,000                               262,800,000      228,890,678
Gossas              229,000,000        9,675,000                               219,325,000      183,588,373
Pout                200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      155,144,610
Dahra               200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      171,820,470
Diamniadio          200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      180,369,510
Ndioum              200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      175,037,084
Goudomp             200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      178,004,724
Podor               200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      185,255,505
Kayar               200,000,000        7,500,000                               192,500,000      162,480,713

                                                        30
Oussouye            200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      172,685,230
Foundiougne         200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      193,241,154
Thionk Essyl        200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      190,028,603
Ndoffane            200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      162,030,384
Passy               200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      196,217,065
Sémmé               200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      173,732,023
Kahone              200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      148,670,960
Golléré             200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      199,391,423
Mboro               200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      142,605,549
Diawara             200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      193,068,182
Ranérou             200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      164,222,800
Niandane            200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      172,760,651
Rosso               200,000,000       7,500,000                      192,500,000      157,186,799
Total for other
municipalities    15,756,000,000    791,700,000    910,400,000     14,053,900,000   13,598,952,605

OVERALL
TOTAL             70,892,389,332   2,829,650,575   9,676,773,800   58,385,964,958   69,575,670,734




                                                       31
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis 6
1.     The Local Authorities Development Program for Senegal (LADP) was
implemented over the period of January 2007 and December 2013. The project financed
by several development agencies, the Government of Senegal and local authorities, was
composed of three components. Component A aimed at strengthening the capacity of
urban municipalities to improve resource mobilization and management. It consisted of
the setup of technical assistance and training activities for local municipalities, inter-
communal authorities and central government. Component B aimed at increasing the
access to and quality of public infrastructure and services in urban areas. It consisted of
the implementation of physical investment and upgrading programs in the area of Dakar,
in the regional capital cities and smaller communes. Component C included tasks in
support of project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
2.     At a national scale this project represented significant funds—in total, the project
disbursed US$153.1 million, or the equivalent of 1.1 percent of Senegal’s 2012 GDP.
Table 1 presents the amount disbursed for the program in total and by source of financing.
About half of the total financing, US$ million 76.3 equivalent of 0.5 percent of the
GDP of 2012, was made by IDA.

        Source        Resources                                     Spending
                     FCFA billion     FCFA billion      US$ million    In percent     Share in GDP 2012
        1
    IDA                      41.1             36.6             76.3       49.8               0.5
    AFD                        9.8              9.7            20.2       13.2               0.1
    State                     20.4               15.3          31.9       20.8               0.2
    Municipalities             3.6                2.4           3.3       3.3                0.04
 MDA                     10.3              9.5                 19.8       12.9               0.1
 Total                   85.2             73.5                153.1      100.0               1.1
Source: LADP Completion Report of the Borrower.
This section presents an evaluation of the development impact and returns of the sub-projects’
financed by IDA. IDA financing by component is presented in Table 2.

                                  IDA Spending                  Share of the component financed by IDA
                      FCFA billion         US$ million             In percent of total LADP spending
    Total                36.6                 76.3                                  49.8
    Component A           3.7                  7.7                                  78.7
    Component B            32.5                  67.7                               52.8
 Component C           0.4                 0.8                                      5.6
Source: LADP Completion Report of the Borrower




6
    In this section, all LAPD figures are from the PRECOL Completion Report of the Borrower.


                                                        32
Component A: Institutional development and capacity building
3.      The activities implemented under the first component of the project aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the municipalities’ to improve resources mobilization and,
in particular, to increase tax collection through better governance and capacity building
(implementing the street naming to locate tax-payers, management support and training,
the establishment of fiscal registers etc.). It is noted that some physical investments under
Component B, such as the construction, rehabilitation and equipment of City Halls, and
Tax and Registry Offices, also supported these goals.
Economic benefits of higher tax collection and better governance in tax collection
4.      In terms of economic returns, a higher level of taxes results in a higher level of
welfare if the social benefits associated with the additional public spending are higher
than the social costs imposed on tax payers.
5.      Taxes, first, modify resource allocation by changing the relative prices of goods
and services. Changes in taxes result, therefore, in changes in individual income (before
tax) depending on how much firms and consumers shift to other inputs and products.
Without more information about the composition of local taxes and the characteristics of
the tax payers, such impacts are, however, impossible to evaluate. In a public finance
constrained environment, higher taxes collection and better governance also brings also
social benefits. Those two other impacts are likely important in the context of Senegal.
6.      Social benefits of public spending in Senegal can be high. Senegal faces
important infrastructure challenges. 7 In the Dakar region, strong demographic growth and
sustained migration from rural areas make it difficult for the municipalities’ infrastructure
and basic services to keep up with the growing demand. Secondary cities lack proper
infrastructure networks and adequate services. Moreover, difficulty accessing funding
and the high cost of credit 8 make the release of municipalities’ budget constraints
particularly valuable.
7.      Better governance, on the other hand, can reduce the social costs of taxes. By
raising the productivity of administration, it can reduce the burden of bureaucracy on
taxpayers (paper works, delays, litigations, etc.) and save time and money. This, in turn,
fosters investment or consumption and could ultimately lead to higher tax revenues.
Some studies suggest that a 10 percent improvement in the quality of governance in
Senegal could lead to an increase of 3.6 percent in municipalities’ tax collection (the
equivalent in present value to US$ 19.3 million). 9 The impact of the technical assistance
provided under the LADP to increase the efficiency of fiscal administration could,
therefore, be important.
Project outcome indicator achievement: Increased amount of tax revenues
8.     On the basis of the project’s outcome indicators, LADP has been successful in
helping municipalities to increase tax revenues. While the goal was to obtain an


7
  Torres et al. (2011) Senegal’s Infrastructure, A Continental Perspective Policy Research Working paper
5817
8
  Rapport Economique du Gouvernement 2011.
9
  Based on Minh Le et al. (2012)

                                                   33
increase in municipalities’ revenues by 30 percent from 2005 to 2012, the actual
growth was 54.9 percent.
9.     From an economic perspective, however, the success of the project must be
measured on the basis of the level of tax revenues the municipalities have collected in
excess of what they would have collected in the absence of the project. This amount (the
counterfactual) is, however, unknown.
10.     A first approach to the counterfactual issue is to compare the growth of tax
revenues in the municipalities under the LADP with the growth, over the same period, of
the aggregated tax revenues at the national level. This comparison is presented in Table 1
and in Figure 1.
11.    Over the period 2005-2012, the amount of tax revenues collected by the
municipalities supported by the LADP increased more rapidly (55.9 percent) than in all
the country (48.3percent). The bars in Figure 1 show, however, that only in 2012, did
municipalities under the LADP do better than the rest of the country. One caveat of this
comparison is that municipalities do not collect taxes on international trade as the
government does 10. External shocks could have offset better the government’s results on
domestic taxes.


Table 1: Total local taxes collected by municipalities (LADP) and national taxes on product, 2010 -2012
in FCFA billion and in percent of GDP

 Taxes                  20053      2006      2007        2008      2009      2010    2011     2012
                                      Taxes revenues in FCFA billion
           1
 LADP                     41.5               44.4       48.9    50.8         51.5    55.8      64.3
                 2
 Country total           600.7     661.6     742.8      735.0     719.9     790.7   887.6    891.1
                                  Growth in tax revenues (base year 2005)
 LADP (outcome indicator)                      7.0       17.8       22.5     24.0    34.4      54.9
 Country total                                23.7       22.4       19.8     31.6    47.8      48.3
 Consumer price index                          8.1       14.4       13.1     14.6    18.5      20.2
                                              As a share in GDP
 LADP                    0.90                0.82      0.82     0.84        0.80    0.82    0.90
 Country total         13.1      13.5      13.7      12.3     11.9      12.3       13.0      12.4
Note: 1/ Local taxes collected by municipalities Source LADP Completion Report of the Borrower Annex
2.2.2 2/ Total taxes on product, National Accounts Source: World Bank open-data 3/ Base year




10
     Data on tax collection by category are available only since 2009.

                                                       34
Figure 1: Local taxes collected by municipalities (LADP) and country-wide general taxes on goods 2005
- 2012




           Source: LADP Completion Report of the Borrower Annex 2.2.2 and author’s calculations
12.     A second approach is to evaluate how the municipalities under the LADP have
been successful in improving their tax collection capacity (the ratio of tax revenues on
local GDP) in comparison to the rest of the country. Again, there is no data for such
analysis since there is no data on regional GDP. Figure 1 presents, consequently, the
results in percent of the country’s GDP. These results show that, in percentage points of
GDP, tax collection in municipalities significantly increased in 2012 by 0.08 p.p.,
equivalent to US$ 10.9 million. These figures also show, however, that about the same
level of collection (taxes in percent of GDP) had, already, been reached in 2005 before
the project starts. Based on these results it is difficult from an economic perspective to
conclude that the LADP helped increase municipalities’ tax collection.

13.    The LADP was successful in the poorest municipalities. The analysis of the
evolution of tax revenues by commune reveals mixed results. Figure 2 presents the
growth rate of tax revenues of all the communes supported by LADP over the period
2007-2012. The communes are ranked according to their initial level of taxes in 2007 in
FCFA billion. This level is expressed in logarithmic scale in order to take into account for
the much higher level of taxes collected by communes such as Dakar, Pikine and
Rufisque among others. While some communes faced absolute decreases in tax revenues
(the growth rate is negative), others increased them substantially (the higher rate of
growth 200percent means that tax revenues were tripled over the period).




                                                 35
Figure 2: Growth rates of tax revenues by communes 2007-2012 in percent




Source: LADP Completion Report of the Borrower Annex 2.1.1.6.1 and author’s calculations Note: 1/
information available only for 65 communes
14.     In 2012, 28 communes (42 percent of all communes supported by LADP) did not
register any real increase in tax revenues (i.e. a growth at least equal to the 11.1percent
inflation over the period) and 17 communes (25 percent) registered absolute drops 11. It is
impressive that overall, in five years, tax revenues in Dakar increased in real terms only
by 0.6 percent. In fact, half of the communes that did not achieve any real increase in tax
revenues over the period are located in the region of Dakar, and the surrounding regions
of Thies, Djourbel and Fatick. The lack of resources reached a critical level in Djourbel.
The accumulation of debt with MDA, the implementing agency of LADP, resulted in the
cancellation of Component B in that city.
15.    In contrast, the assistance of the LADP was more effective in the poorest regions.
Since 2007, 24 communes (36 percent) have managed to increase local tax revenues at a
higher pace than GDP growth (32.6 percent over 2007-2012 in nominal terms). More
importantly, in Tambacounda, Kolda and Kedougou, which are the poorest regions of
Senegal 12, tax revenues almost doubled or substantially increased (by 181 percent, 199


11
    At least 41 of the 67 communes under the PRECOL (61%) did not achieve the project’s outcome of
increasing tax revenues by 30% over the period 2006-2012. The outcome is measured based on the initial
level of 2005. However, because of the general drop of tax revenues in 2007, the levels of 2007 in most of
the communes were lower than in 2005. In order to achieve the project’s objective of 30% over 2005-2012,
most of the communes must have register growth rates in tax revenues over the period 2007 higher than the
expected rate of 30%. Consequently, more communes have probably not achieved this expected outcome.
12
   In 2011, 52.9% of the population of Tambacouda belong to the 10% poorest households of Senegal,
54.4% of the population of Kolda and 61.3% of the population of Kedougou (ASDN, enquete )

                                                   36
percent and 42.5 percent, in the capital cities respectively). In the poorest regions, the
LADP helped relieved the budget constraint by at least US$ 1.7 million13.
16.     As mentioned in the introduction, the net economic impact of higher taxes
depends on the distributive impact of these changes, tax payers’ resources reallocation
and the social benefits induced by higher public spending. In these particularly poor
areas, the policy was probably not regressive because the tax base of the poorest groups is
almost inexistent. Far from Dakar these municipalities, moreover, lack of infrastructure
and basic services more than other municipalities. The social benefits associated to the
additional public spending were, therefore, certainly higher than the social costs imposed
on local tax payers.

Component B: Municipal and inter-communal investments
17.      The second component of LADP financed a large program of public infrastructure
at inter-communal levels in the region of the Great Dakar Area and at municipal levels in
the main provincial urban areas and small communes. Overall the spending supported by
IDA in this component amounted to US$67.7 million (FCFA billion 36.6) equivalent to
0.5 percent of the GDP of Senegal in 2012.
18.    Table 2 presents the distribution of those expenditures by sector and geographical
areas. About 45 percent of the funds were spent in provinces while the remaining
resources were employed in inter-communal projects in the region of the Great Dakar
Area and some public infrastructure in Dakar and the commune of Rufisque.
19.     The evaluation of the impact of these investments would require a wide range of
information about the catchment areas and the socio-economic characteristics,
demographic, health status, school enrollment, mode of transportation and so on of the
population who live in those areas before and after the project. This information does not
exist and even information such as the size of the catchment population was not available
for this analysis. The computation of the economic return in Table 5 is mostly based on
the statistics published by the Office of the Statistics of Senegal (ADNS) by regions, the
project characteristics and estimates of the possible number of potential beneficiaries.
The impacts are assumed from the results of other countries’ projects’ evaluations.
However, given the difficulty to realize precisely project evaluations, the available
empirical evidence to compute those impacts is limited and often very specific to each
project. The computation of the impacts of this project relies, therefore, on those cases
and educated guesses of the possible range of such impacts in Senegal in the context of
this project.
20.     Either in the area of Dakar or in provinces, the works mainly consisted in
rehabilitating and extending road infrastructure (82.8 percent of total spending). The
other projects included the construction and rehabilitation and equipment of six health
centers (including three new health centers in Dakar), the extension of electrical,
drinking water and wastewater networks (by, in total, 17.5, 21.5 and 7.2 additional
kilometers, respectively), the construction and equipment of new City Halls, revenue


13
  Amount collected above the amount these municipalities had collected if tax collection had progressed at
the same pace than GDP.

                                                   37
collection and public offices, the rehabilitation of local market places and bus stations
and the construction of socio-cultural facilities in the region of Dakar (a stadium in
Rufisque and the rehabilitation and extension of an accommodation facility in Gorée). As
already mentioned, the project’s support of about US$1.8 million in Djourbel, for road
infrastructure, the rehabilitation of the health center and the extension of the market, has
been cancelled for the particularly high level of the city’s indebtedness to the
implementing agency MD.




                                            38
Table 2 Infrastructure works financed under Component B

                                                                              City Hall                  Drinking    Waste   Market   Bus
    Sectors                   Total        Road        Health    Electricity Rev. coll.        Sport     Water       water   place    station   Other
                                                                 Total spending in US$ million
    Total                        67.7       56.0        3.5          0.9            1.2         1.2        0.4        2.3     1.1       0.6       0.5
                                                   1
    Great Dakar                  37.5       32.4        3.0           0.0            0.4          1.2                                             0.5
    Provinces                    30.2       23.6        0. 5          0.9            0.8          0.0      0.4        2.3     1.1       0.6       0.0
                                                               Distribution by sector in percentage
    Composition                  100.0      82.8        5.1           1.4              1.8         1.7     0.6        3.4     1.6       0.9       0.8
                                                                                                                 2
                                            Spending as percent of local aggregated consumption of 2011
    Great Dakar                  1.16       1.00   0.09                       0.01        0.04                                                   0.02
    Provinces                    1.59       1.24        0.03        0.05            0.04                   0.02       0.12    0.06     0.03
                                                                 Total spending in US$ million
    Total                        67.7       56.0        3.5           0.9            1.2          1.2      0.4        2.3     1.1       0.6       0.5
    Great Dakar                  37.5       32.4        3.0                          0.4          1.2                                             0.5
    CADAK/CAR/DAKAR              35.5       32.01       3.0                                                                                       0.5
    Rufisque                      2.0        0.4        0.0           0.0            0.4          1.2                                             0.0
    Provinces                    30.2       23.6        0.5           0.9            0.8          0.0      0.4        2.3     1.1       0.6       0.0
    Thies                         7.0        5.9        0.0           0.3            0.4          0.0      0.4        0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Kaolack                       6.0        3.7        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0      0.0        2.3     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Zinguinchor                   4.6        4.3        0.0           0.3            0.0          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Saint Louis                   4.9        4.4        0.2           0.0            0.3          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Djourbel                                 0.0        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Louga                         2.2        2.2        0.0           0.0            0.1          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
    Tambacounda                   2.4        2.1        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.3       0.0
    Fatick                        1.0        0.0        0.2           0.2            0.0          0.0      0.04       0.0     0.5       0.0       0.0
    Kolda                         1.5        1.0        0.0           0.0            0.0          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.5       0.0       0.0
    Matam                         0.4        0.0        0.1           0.0            0.0          0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0       0.3       0.0
Sources: Annexe 1.6 and Annexe 2.1.2.2.3.A and author’s calculations (LADP Completion Report of the Borrower, 2013), EDS-MICS 2010-2011, RGPFAE 2013 preliminary
results, World Bank open data. Note: 1/ LADP 2013 Completion Report of the Borrower does not provide the distribution by donors of road infrastructure spending in the area of
Great Dakar. The figures associated to IDA are estimated based on IDA range of projects and total spending
.


                                                                                           39
21.     Project implementation spurred demand for local labor, goods and services and
fostered economic growth. Labor intensive techniques were adopted and, as a result, the
projects had positive impact on employment. Based on the information per sector of the
contracting authority (AGETIP) by sector, direct labor cost represented overall 25percent
percent of all the sub-projects’ implementation costs supported by IDA. Indirect labor costs
represented another additional 36 percent. As a result, over a period of seven years, these
projects created a large number of jobs equivalent to 576 direct jobs and 835 indirect jobs
per year, considering that in 2011 the annual income of a semi-qualified worker amounted
in average to US$ dollars 2268 (FCFA 90732 per month 14). Moreover, slightly less than half
of those jobs, 268 and 389 respectively, were created in provinces whose population was
facing the pressure to migrate in search of employment to the Dakar Area. Overall, the
implementation of Component B resulted in US$ 22.4 million spending on labor which
resulted ultimately in the growth of household’s consumption. Considering that inputs
represented about one fourth of total spending 15, the remuneration of total production factors
amounted to US$ 28.1 million. Table 3 below, presents the share of direct and indirect
labor costs by sector as well as the total spending on production factors under the project.

Table 3: Share of direct and indirect labor costs by sector and total remuneration of factors

                   Infrastructure works supported by IDA in the LADP (Component B)
                                                      City
                                                      hall
                                                      Rev.             Drinking Waste Market            Bus
 Sectors          Total Road Health Electricity coll.          Sport water      water place             station
                                  Labor costs as percent of total spending
 Direct labor
 costs            59.1   12.56   13.13       12.56      16.9   30.28      21.1      26.09       17.88   17.88
 Indirect
 labor costs      32.7   18.51   19.70       18.51     21.08   36.33     39.86      30.85       29.82   29.82
                         Remuneration of production factor in US$ million
 Total
 remuneration
 of factors    28.1   21.8     1.4        0.4       0.6     1.0       0.3        1.6             0.6     0.3
Source: LADP Completion Report of the Borrower annexe2.1.3.4. and author’s calculation.


Intercommunal road infrastructure
22.     One major achievement of the project is the development of an inter-communal 27
kilometer long strategic road network (including drainage and street lighting) in five
municipalities of Greater Dakar. The project cost US$ 32.4 million. As with any road
project, this new infrastructure substantially reduced users’ costs of transportation. An
additional aspect of these new corridors is that by facilitating the transit between the Greater
Dakar Area and other major infrastructure, such as the Dakar-Diamniadio Highway and the
seaport of Dakar, they have also contributed to boost growth.



14
     Camara and Guye, 2013 “Rapport sur les déterminants de l’emploi” MoF,ANSD,CEPOD
15
     Equivalent to a mark-up on labor costs of 25%

                                                     40
23.     The construction of new road infrastructure brings direct benefits to the users of
these roads and the populations in the catchment areas. Road rehabilitation and construction
reduce urban congestion, speed up movements of people and goods and diminish operation
costs such as vehicles maintenance. New pavement and the widening of road surfaces lower,
moreover, the frequency of accidents. Besides those direct benefits, access to administration,
schools, health care and cultural facilities is improved for a large share of the population
living in the area. Because part of the new infrastructure belongs to the national road
network, some of these benefits reach even populations that live far away. In the case of
emergencies, the time for ambulances transporting patients to central hospital in Dakar is
shortened; and fresher agricultural products from peripheral areas can reach Dakar’s markets,
etc.
24.     By connecting the Dakar-Diamniadio Highway to regional transport corridors and
the seaport, the project has also contributed to boosting growth. Overall, the new road
infrastructure along with the construction of Dakar-Diamniadio Highway, the construction
of a new international airport and the extension of the seaport of Dakar are expected to
substantially release the heavy constraints that the lack of transportation infrastructure has
imposed on economic activity. In 2003, infrastructure constraints were responsible for about
58 percent of the productivity handicap the Senegalese firms faced in the region 16 .
According to those firms, poor transportation, followed by the lack of reliable electricity,
were the constraints that weighted most heavily on productivity. The overall new
infrastructure projects in transportation are also expected to strength Senegal’s role as a
regional trade hub and a key exit to international markets. Over the period 2005-2012,
international trade has steadily expanded with annual growth rates of exports and imports in
real term of about 4.2 percent and 5.2 percent respectively17. This progression is expected to
remain strong in the coming years. As a result, growth is expected to accelerate from 4
percent in 2013 to 4.6 percent in 2014 18 and to 5.2percent in the medium term when the
construction of the new international airport and the extension of the seaport will be
finished 19.
25.     During appraisal, road users’ benefits were evaluated using the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4) and the vehicle fleet characteristics and
economic unit costs of Senegal of 2006. Based on those results and the evolution of
economic growth over the 2005-2012 period in the Great Dakar Area, these benefits are
evaluated in 2012 to US$ 24.9 per households living in the catchment area 20. The latter are
slightly smaller than at appraisal, based on the recent publication of the results of the Census
of 2013, as the population in the target area has grown slower than expected (2.9 percent
instead of 3.3 percent).



16
  Escribano, Guasch and Pena 2010 Assessing the Impact of Infrastructure Quality on Firm Productivity in Africa Policy
Research Working Paper 5191, the World Bank.
17
   http://www.ansd.sn/publications/conjoncturelles/bulletin_commerce_exterieur/trimestriel/BullComex_12_13
.pdf
18
    IMF 2013 world outlook http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/weo/2013/01/pdf/tables.pdf
19
    http://www.afdb.org/fr/news-and-events/article/senegal-moves-into-the-fast-lane-with-the-opening-of-its-
toll-highway-12263/
20
    0.4% of household’s annual expenditure , and 722935 beneficiaries

                                                          41
26.     Maintenance costs must be deduced from those benefits. The latter are based on a
30-year life-cycle, with annual maintenance costs of 1 percent of the physical investment
(with a conversion factor of 82.5percent), a renovation of the black top every 10 years
estimated to amount to 35 percent of the investment, and a salvage value at the end of the
cycle of 25 percent of the initial investment 21. Considering a discount rate of 12 percent,
overall maintenance costs represent 20.4percent of the physical investment and 16.8 percent
of the total spending on road infrastructure i.e. to US$ 5.7 million.
27.     The project, moreover, contributed to increased economic growth. Growth in 2014 is
expected to increase from 4.0 percent in 2013 to 4.6 percent in 2014. Considering that half
of this acceleration is related to the substantial improvement of road infrastructure and that
IDA’s contribution is measured by its relative size in relation to the cost of the Dakar-
Diamniadio Highway, which amounted to US$ 792 million 22 , the project is associated with
2 percent of the additional growth, equivalent in present value to US$ 13.8 million (US$ 1.7
million in 2014).
28.    In summary, the economic returns of the road infrastructure project in the GDA,
amount in present value to US$ 48.9 million while the investment amount to US$ 32.4
million, and an economic return of 51 percent, in the range of what was expected during
appraisal (54percent).

Table 4 Car registration and traffic fatalities, 2010

                 Total           Of which        Heavy           Buses          Reported      Estimated
                 number of       Cars and 4-     trucks                         traffic       GDP lost due
                 registered      wheeled                                        fatalities    to road traffic
                 cars            light                                          (2009)        crashes
                                 vehicles
2010             326,352         251,685         19,586          15,294         213           1%
                  23
Source WHO
Road infrastructure in provinces

29.     Road infrastructure for a total length of 40.6 kilometers was also realized under the
project in the provincial cities of Thies, Koalack, Ziguinchor, Saint Louis, Louga,
Tambacounda amd Kolda. This infrastructure has similar impacts to the one described for
the development of the road network in the GDA in terms of productivity, greater safety and
new economic opportunities. Empirical evidence in Bangladesh, India and Peru indicate that
road rehabilitation boosts agriculture wages, output prices, and per capita households
consumption. In the case of the construction of new all-weather roads, the increased in
beneficiaries’ consumption ranges from 11 to 35 percent. Under the project, some of the
benefits are limited to the catchment areas; other reach larger populations such as the
crossing of the Mamacounda River in two points in Tambacounda. In Kolda and


21
     Bell Clive 2012 Estimating the Social Profitability of india’s Rural Road Program – A Bumpy Road Policy
Research Working Paper 6168, the World Bank.
22
  FCFA billion 380 ref
23
  WHO Road safety 2010 and 2008
http://who.int/violence_injury_prevention/road_safety_status/2013/country_profiles/senegal.pdf

                                                          42
Tambacounda, the construction or the rehabilitation under the project of market places and
bus stations also enlarged the impact of the new road infrastructure by developing the
conditions for greater exchange of goods and services, increasing people’s mobility in the
area and improving access to and exchange with the rest of the country.
30.     Because traffic on provincial roads is much less than in the Dakar area, economic
returns to users/beneficiaries are estimated to be almost half of those obtained in Dakar
(US$ 14.5 per household). Considering that about 40 percent 24 of the urban population of
the provinces lives in the main cities where the infrastructure upgrades were made, and that
the catchment areas include 885 households per kilometer of new or rehabilitated roads,
users’ benefits in present value amount to US$ 5.1 million. Since road density is one of the
main determinants of cash income from agricultural sales in Senegal, these new
infrastructure contribute to improving regional integration with more populated areas, in
particular Dakar. Without more data on each region’s production and trade, it is however
impossible to evaluate the range of these impacts. With maintenance cost of 16.8 percent of
the initial amount of spending 25, the computed total economic returns in present value of
2012 amount to US$ 15.3 million.
31.   Overall, the economic returns on road infrastructure investments are evaluated to
amount US$ 64.2 million, equivalent to an economic return of 15 percent.

Health

32.    The project supported the construction of three health care centers in Dakar, the
extension of the health care centers of Pikine in Saint Louis and of Djamel in Matam, and
the rehabilitation of the health care center of Fatick. The total spending in the health sector
supported by IDA amounted to US$ 3.5 million.
33.    The economic return of this type of project is first associated with the reduction of
the health costs resulting from the treatment of the diseases affecting the population in the
area. By easing early intervention, medical complications can be avoided, and, epidemic
outbreaks can be better prevented. From a financial perspective, the extent of these benefits
depends on the financial arrangements in the health sector regarding the amount and
financing of the operating costs (staff, equipment and consumables) and the cost charged to
users. The social benefits are usually expressed in terms of the number of Years of Life
Lost (YLLs) due to premature death and the number of Disability Adjusted Life Years
(DALYs) lost to morbidity that the new or newly renovated units are expected to save. In
2010, malaria, diarrheal diseases, and lower respiratory infections were the highest ranking
causes of morbidity in Senegal 26. Malaria, in particular, is the leading cause for consultation
(35percent) and the first cause of mortality of pregnant women and children under 5 years
old. Easing access to medical equipment and staff, and raising population level of education


24
   Based on regional reports ASND
25
   LADP required that municipalities make provisions for infrastructure maintenance equivalent of their total
budget. This amount roughly corresponds to the cost of annual maintenance. The costs above include also the
cost of replacing the infrastructure after a life cycle of 30 years.
26
   http://www.healthmetricsandevaluation.org/sites/default/files/country-
profiles/GBD%20Country%20Report%20-%20Senegal.pdf

                                                     43
contribute to the decline of child mortality. In 2010, 2,524,350 YLLs were lost in Senegal
due to under-five year old child mortality (in association to 29,618 deaths). The economic
returns of the creation, extension and rehabilitation of 6 health care centers are, therefore,
likely very important.
34.     Road and electrical infrastructure also have positive impacts on health. In the case of
emergencies, timely treatment and a fairly smooth ride on the way can make the difference
between life and death. Villagers in India noted that two or three lives had been saved each
year since their access to an all-weather road 27. Similarly, the supply of electricity can make
a great difference in the quality of treatment or of care during and post-delivery.
Households’ electric lightning reduces, moreover, the pollution from using candles and
kerosene and diminishes the health hazard they often represent for children and women in
the household 28. Finally, the improvement of people’s health status has larger economic
consequences than the reduction of health costs because morbidity reduces people’s labor
capacity and children’s schooling.

35.     These impacts are impossible to evaluate without more data on households’
characteristics, morbidity etc. This section presents an estimation of the range of the
expected impact based on an approximation of the impact of the creation of new health
centers on under-five child mortality given the levels in each of these four regions of child
mortality in 2011, the number of health care units and the characteristics of the population in
the area (education, and health care seeking behavior, consumption per capita) 29. There is
no study in Senegal of the relationship between the creation and the rehabilitation of health
care centers and the decrease in child mortality. This exercise helps, however, figure the
scale of the expected impact that the project more generally has on overall population’s
morbidity. The investment in health infrastructure under the LADP is estimated to
have contributed to a reduction in the order of 0.17 percent of YLLs , equivalent to
economic returns of US$ million 23.5.

36.     Regarding the operating costs and investment needs of the new infrastructures, the
former is based on the median staff composition of a health care center in Senegal in 2012 30
(i.e 2 physicians, 3 technicians, 10 nurses and 9 other support staff) and their remunerations
in 2012. In total, annual labor costs are estimated as US$110,500 dollars and annual
operating costs including provisions as US$276,000 dollars. There is no information about
users’ fees in order to estimate the amount of recovery costs. Consequently, total
maintenance costs of the new health structure are estimated in 2012 to amount to US$ 9.2
million.




27
   Bell (2012) “Estimating the social profitability of India’s Rural Roads Program” WPS 6169, the World Bank.
28
   Van de Walle (2013).
29
   The impact is based on an estimated relationship between child mortality by region, the local number of
health care units and indicators of the quality of equipment of those units, local population level of education
and health care seeking behavior as well as the number of children under five and the level of consumption per
capita in the area where the centers were established, and the corresponding YLLs.
30
   Enquete continue des prestations de santé 2012-2013 ADSN

                                                      44
Electrification

37.     The component B also supported a 17.5 kilometer extension of the electrical network
for a total cost of US$ million 0.9 in Thiès (38percent of total spending), Ziguinchor (37
percent) and Fatick (25 percent).

38.      Empirical evidence shows that electrification brings substantial gains to households’
comfort, consumption and earnings 31. It reduces the cost of lighting, and increases the use of
fans. It also extends the time available for domestic duties or enterprise work that require
good lighting. By relieving time burdens spent on domestic tasks, electrification enables
women to engage in market-based works. In India over a period of seven years,
electrification implied household consumption gains of 7 percent per year 32 . In Benin,
electrification in rural areas boosted the creation of new firms 33. Furthermore, access to the
electricity network supports the development of small enterprises which cannot afford to invest and
operate generators, 34

39.     The value attached by households to an electrical network is also apparent in the
analysis of the determinants of property value. In Djibouti a dwelling that is connected to
the electrical network is worth 40 percent more than a dwelling in the neighborhood with
similar other characteristics that is not connected. 35

40.     The extension of the network in the region of Thiès has, moreover, benefited villages.
In Senegal, access to electricity is particularly low in rural areas (27percent of the
households). In urban areas, while coverage is highest in Dakar (91 percent 36 in 2005),
about 87 percent of households in the province are connected to the network. Overall, in
Thiès, Zinguinchor and Fatick about 128 000 households are not connected to the network.
The report on the LADP does not inform about the number of households that could get
direct power supply. This evaluation is based on the 15,000 households (12percent) that
benefited from the new connection to an amount equivalent to US$330 per household (i.e. 7
percent of households consumption, as suggested above). Considering low maintenance costs of
0.5 percent of the initial spending, total economic returns from electricity amount in present
value of 2012 to US$ 0.7 million.




31
   See for a detailed review van de Walle et al. (2013) “Long term impacts of Household Electrification in
Rural India”, WPS6527, the World Bank
32
   Van de Walle et al. (2013)
33
   (Peters, 2010) http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0305750X10002299
34
    Agenor P., Moreno-Dodson B. 2006 Public Infrastructure and Growth New Channels and Policy
Implications Research Working Paper 4064, the World Bank
35
   Castel 2013 ( Urban Development and Resilience Unit, Diagnostic of the sector of housing in Djibouti
background paper)
36
   Barnejee Sudshna, Amadou Diallo, Vivien Foster et Quentin Wodon 2009 : Trends in Household Coverage
of Modern Infrastructure Services in Africa Policy Research Working Paper 4880, The World Bank.

                                                    45
Drinking water and waste water system

41.     In Fatick and Thiès the extension of the drinking water network, and in Kaolack the
extension of the waste water system contributed to an improved health environment and the
reduction of morbidity. This impact has not been factored in the computation of the
project’s economic return presented in Table 5.

Education and human capital

42.     Finally, public infrastructures supported by IDA have also had positive impacts on
education. The rehabilitation of roads improves people’s mobility and decreases the chances
of students and for teachers missing school. The accumulation of small absences over a run
of years can result in the need to repeat a class, or to dropping out altogether, neither of
which is a small event 37 . In the Philippines and in Morocco, school drop-out fell and
enrollment went up after rural roads were built 38. Electric lightning and easier access to safe
water lead, moreover, to a rearrangement of household tasks allowing longer hours for
reading and studying. Electricity also increases the probability of watching television whose
role is increasingly seen as a driver of behavioral changes that might influence women
family planning decisions and family nutrition resulting in lower child morbidity and better
learning capacity.

43.    The number of missed class days by teachers and students depends very much,
however, of the initial attitude towards schooling and, therefore, the efforts by teachers and
student to avoid missing classes. Evaluating these impacts requires additional information
on schooling patterns and households characteristics of the population leaving in the
catchment areas.

Summary

44.     From an economic perspective LADP brought important returns. Based on a
discount rate of 12 percent, the overall impact of the project, supported by IDA, is evaluated
to amount, at least, to 23.8 percent. Table 5 presents a summary of the present values of the
economic returns by sector in relation to the project contribution to (i) additional demand for
labor and goods and services directly generated by the project (ii) user’s benefits and
contribution to additional growth from road infrastructure (iii) health gains and (iv) benefits
from electrification. This evaluation does not include the economic returns of other
beneficial impact of the LADP such as (i) social benefit of releasing public budget
constrains in the poorest areas (ii) health gains from extending drinking water and
wastewater systems (iii) higher social cohesion and safety from construction and
rehabilitation of socio-cultural equipment (iv) impact on education and human capital of
better roads, health and access to electricity. Even without considering these additional
impacts, the returns presented in Table 5 are high, and demonstrate that the project was
unambiguously beneficial.


37
     Bells 2012 see above note 25
38
     Agenor and Moreno-Dodson 2006 see above note 33

                                                   46
Table 5 Summary of LADP spending and economic returns supported by IDA in present value of 2012

          Spending              US$ m              Economic returns             US$ mln    share
 Total spending component A        7.7    Remuneration of production factors      34.5       41.2
                                          Road infrastructure (incl. market
 Total spending component B       67.7    places and bus stations)                34.4       41.0
 Total spending component C        0.8     Inter-communal                         33.0
 Total spending                   76.3       Maintenance (-)                       5.7
                                             Users' benefit                       24.9
                                             Contribution to economic growth      13.8
                                           Provinces                               1.4
                                             Maintenance (-)                       3.7
                                             Users' benefit                        5.1
                                          Health Centers                          14.3       17.0
                                             Operation costs (-)                   9.2
                                             Decrease in morbidity                23.5
                                          Electricity network                      0.7       0.8
                                             Maintenance (-)                      0.04
                                             Users' benefit                       0.71
                                             Increase in property value
                                          Total economic returns                  83.8      100.0
 Rate of return (returns on spending in
 percent)                                 23.8
Source: LADP and author’s calculations




                                                 47
         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility
         Names                               Title                  Unit         /
                                                                             Specialty
        Lending
Christian Diou            Senior Municipal Engineer                AFTU2       TTL
Catherine D. Farvacque    Lead Urban Specialist                    WBIUR       TTL
Sylvie Debomy             Senior Urban Planner                     LCSDU
Saidou Diop               Financial Management Specialist          AFTMW
El Hadji Babaly Deme      Consultant                               AFTU1
Victor Chomentowski       Senior Municipal Finance, Consultant     AFTU2
Bourama Diaite            Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPW
Ibou Diouf                Senior Transport. Specialist             AFTTR
Yvette Laure Djachechi    Senior Social Development Specialists    AFTCS
Sung Heng C. Kok Shun Senior Program Assistant                     AFTU2
Robert A. Robelus         Consultant                               AFTA1
Fily Sissoko              Manager, Financial Management            SARFM
Denise R. Vaudaine        Consultant                               AFTU2
                  Supervision/ICR
Christian Diou            Senior Municipal Engineer                AFTU2       TTL
Salim Rouhana             Urban Specialist                         AFTU2       TTL
Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud Senior Infrastructure Specialist           MNSSU       TTL
Sidi Mohamed Boubacar Chief Counsel                                LEGAM
Sylvie Debomy             Senior Urban Planner                     LCSDU
Renee M. Desclaux         Senior Finance Officer                   CTRLD
Bourama Diaite            Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPW
Saidou Diop               Senior Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
Yvette Laure Djachechi    Senior Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
Sung Heng C. Kok Shun Senior Program Assistant                     AFTU2
Fatim Seck                Program Assistant                        AFCF1
Africa Eshogba-Olojoba Senior Environment Specialist               AFTEN
Victor Chomentowski       Senior Municipal Finance, Consultant     AFTU2
Mamadou Mansour
                          Senior Procurement Specialist            AFCF1
Mbaye
Dina Ranarifidy           Local Development Specialist             AFTU2
Amadou Konare             Consultant                               AFTU2
Yacouba Konate            Consultant                               AFTU2
Robert A. Robelus         Consultant                               AFTU2
Osval Rocha Andrade
                          Financial Management Specialist          AFTMW
Romao
Fatou Fall Samba          Financial Management Analyst             AFTMW
Fily Sissoko              Manager, Financial Management            SARFM
Cheick Traore             Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPW

                                             48
Aissata Z. Zerbo          Procurement Specialist                     AFTU2
Paulette Castel           Consultant                                 AFTU2


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
2004                                           14.6                         75.0
2005                                           10.6                        130.0
2006                                           29.0                        164.2
2007                                            0.6                          3.6
                          TOTAL:               54.7                        372.8

2007                                           19.0                         91.1
2008                                           17.3                         93.7
2009                                           25.5                        135.8
2010                                           16.1                        115.6
2011                                           21.2                        143.7
2012                                           15.3                         93.2
2013                                           14.7                         70.8
2014                                           16.1                         87.3
                          TOTAL:              145.0                        831.2




                                             49
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                      50
                       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The main lessons learned presented during the November 2013 closing seminar are as follows:
1.      The city contracts have enabled local authorities to benefit, with prior audits, from excellent
diagnosis of the status of their financial situation.
2.      The release of allowances in a timely manner should be initiated and decrees transferability
taken immediately before projects start to execute, both requiring careful planning. This aspect
should be taken into account in the follow-up program if any.
3.       Durability and maintenance of works financed by the project are crucial questions.
Appropriate actions should be urgently taken, in consultation with public and administrative
authorities, to make it a central consideration in future operations.
4.        The collaboration of human and financial resources between poorer municipalities, in a
situation of scarcity of resources would enable them to overcome the lack of maintenance of public
facilities. In this sense, inter-municipal institutions should be promoted in order to more effectively
address this issue.
5.      Lack of communication by MDA has been reported by some stakeholders as detrimental in
the execution of works. It was however, recognized that this is a shared responsibility between the
MDA and the beneficiaries (municipalities and communities). In any follow-up operations, a
balanced approach should, for this purpose, be implemented.
6.       The municipalities should be able to mobilize a proper public maintenance fund based on
their own resources, with a contribution from the State which could enable durable sustainability of
their investments.
7.       For the sustainability of assets, maintenance alone is not enough: the promotion of a real
social dialogue (State, municipalities, beneficiaries, other stakeholders) is required in order to elicit a
strong ownership of utilities by stakeholders’ communities. It is a pledge to be taken by the project,
the municipalities, the Government and the development partners).
8.      The achievements of LADP in the cities of the Dakar region have been significant and
benefited a large population. For fairness, the follow-up operation should take consideration of
secondary cities as well.
9.      The urban municipalities should further improve mobilization of their own resources and
consolidate their management, moving towards innovative financial mechanisms (public-private
partnerships, bonds, Build Operate Transfer (BOT), budget support, etc. ) to properly support and
coordinate finance an urban program, with State support,
10.     It is fundamental that the State grant the MDA with more consistent funding for its operation,
especially in light of the Act III of Decentralization which will significantly impact the allocation of
funds by municipalities.
11.    The LADP has largely contributed to the eradication of poverty and the promotion of local
development in municipalities where it was implemented.
12.      The Caisse de Dépôts et Consignations (CDC) would be willing to partner with the MDA,
as part of a future urban agenda. In this regard, contacts have already started between the two parties.
13.     Pending establishment of a future urban program as the MDA suggested, the development of
an intermediate program would help to ensure continuity of the actions undertaken by the LADP.




                                                    51
            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive summary of the Borrower’s ICR, prepared by the Municipal Development Agency
(MDA)
1.      As a follow-up to PAC program, the LADP was executed by the Government of Senegal,
with technical and financial assistance from the World Bank and the French Development Agency
(AFD), over a period of seven (7) years (2006-2013), instead of the five (5) years initially planned.
The two extensions of the closing dates were dictated by objective reasons to achieve the project
development objectives.
2.      LADP was covering two Communities of Agglomeration of Dakar and Rufisque (CADAK
and CAR) and the sixty-seven (67) municipalities that existed at the time of preparation and had the
following objectives: (i) strengthening urban local authorities to improve resource mobilization and
municipal management, and (ii) increasing the provision of urban infrastructure and services.
3.      The implementing agency, MDA, has signed contracts with cities and towns respectively
with the municipalities, CADAK and CAR, and has conducted urban organizational and financial
audits. Besides the roles and responsibilities of different actors (MDA, municipalities, CADAK and
CAR), these contracts define the content as well as the terms of financing and implementation of the
Priority Investment Programs (PIP), the Priority Maintenance Programs (PEP) and Municipal
Support Programs (PAM or PAI).
4.      With regard to the execution of physical investments (PIP and PII), the Executing Agency
Public Interest Works (AGETIP) has received delegated responsibilities on behalf of CADAK, CAR
and the forty-eight (48) urban Municipalities which had signed their first joint city contracts before
22 January 2009. As for the ten (10) Regional Development Agencies involved in LADP, they
assisted the municipalities targeted by the project for the implementation of the Priority Investment
Programs of the nineteen (19) other cities.
5.       Many endogenous and other factors associated with an unfavorable international
environment negatively affected the LADP’s performance. Despite these constraints, almost all the
planned activities were achieved. The most significant outcomes include: (i) strengthened
management capacity of municipalities, CADAK and CAR; (ii) construction and/or rehabilitation of
roads and secondary structures, basic social amenities (health posts and centers, schools, women
centers, town halls and common round, stadiums, community centers, among others); (iii) extension
and densification of electricity networks and public lighting, drinking water supply and sanitation,
among others. These results were deemed satisfactory overall and have affected all areas of urban
development (health, education, youth, sports, leisure, and advancement of women, culture,
wastewater and storm water drainage, electrification, and mobility, among others).
6.       A more detailed analysis of the different results and positive impacts concluded that the
program was relevant, given the consistency of objectives related to people's concerns. These results
are also in line with the strategies for economic and social development in Senegal. Lastly, the
results reflect the effectiveness of the approach and tools (organizational and financial audits urban,
city contracts, among others) previously used and tested in the PAC.
7.       Many lessons can be drawn from LADP’s achievements and deserve to be capitalized in the
current context of the preparation of the “Third Act of Decentralization”. This reform aims, among
other things, the full municipalisation, and spatialisation of public policies, as well as the emergence
of new development growth poles. As with the PAC and LADP, which effectively supported the
process of decentralization in 1996 in Senegal, it would be necessary to consider, in consultation
with all stakeholders (Government, municipalities, traditional technical and financial partners,


                                                  52
Senegal Mayors’ Association, MDA, among others), the preparation of another urban development
program, in line with those carried out in Senegal since 1972, with the support of the World Bank.
8.      The future program should namely take into account the emergence of new centers of
development (development growth poles) as well as the expected creation of a significant number of
new municipalities which will require massive infrastructure construction, appropriate equipment
and implementation of institutional support measures. To this end, in the context of the preparation
of the "Third Act of Decentralization" which coincides with the end of the LADP, it will be required
to define and implement innovative financing of local development strategies.




                                                53
     Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


NA




                                    54
                             Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are in the project file:
    •   Project Appraisal Document (June 2006)
    •   Financing Agreement (2006)
    •   Environmental and Social Management Framework (2009)
    •   Resettlement Policy Framework (2009)
    •   Restructuring Paper (October 27, 2010)
    •   Restructuring Paper (July 25, 2012)
    •   Restructuring Paper (September 12, 2013)
    •   Project aide-memoires (2009 – 2013)
    •   Mid-Term Review Report (February 2010)
    •   Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs #1-7, 2009-2013)
    •   Borrower’ s Completion Report (December 2013)
    •   Note on institutional impacts of LADP by Victor Chomentowski (April 2014)




                                                   55
MAP IBRD 34470




     56
                     18W                                                                             16W                                                                                        14W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                                                          M A U R I TA N I A                                                                                   LOC AL AUTH OR I TI ES
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                             Sénégal
                                                                                                                                                             Podor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D EVELOP M ENT P R OG R AM
                                                                                                          Nouakchott
                                                                                                          Rosso                                         Niandane         Doue                                                                                                                  PROJECT SITES:
                                                                                                                                   Dagana                                Ndioum
                                SENEGAL                                                                                                             Ndiayène                                                                                                                                     FINANCED BY THE WORLD BANK
                                                                                                                      Richard-Toll                                      Haïré Lao                                                                                                                NOT FINANCED BY THE WORLD BANK
                                                                                                                  Lac de
                                                                                                                  Guier                               SAINT-                       Golléré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kaedi            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mbout
                                                                                                                                                      LOUIS                                                                                                                                    REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                        Saint-Louis
               16N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16N                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thilogne
                                                                                                                                                        Lagbar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sén
                                                                                      Mpal                            Va                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               éga
                                                                                                                           e




                                                                                                                       llé
                                                                                                                               du Fe                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                    rlo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                          Léona                                                                                                                                                Matam
                                                                         Ndiaye                  Louga                                                                                                                Ourossogui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                          Koki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                      Tioukougne Peul
                                                                                          Kébémèr                               Daraa               Linguère                                  M ATA M                                  Kanel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                         Fâs Boye                                                                                                                      Ranérou                                                   Waoundé
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Va
                                                        Mboro
                                                                      Darou                                                    LOUGA                                                                           llée
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      du                          Semmé
                                                                      Khoudos                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       Darou Mousti
                                                           THIÈS                Mékhé                                                                                                                       Mamâri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lo
                                                                                                                                                                       Vèlingara
                                          CAP-           Kayar         Tivaouane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Diawara           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                 Mbaké                                                                                                                                                      Bakel
                                Guédiawaye
                                          VERT           Pout       Thiès Kombole                                                                                             La Ferdo
                                                           Sébikhotane
                                                                                      DIOURBEL
                            DAKAR                        Diamgnadio       Bambey                 Diourbel                                                                                    Vallé
                                                    Bargny     Nguékokh                                                                                                                           e du Mboun                                                                                         To
                                          Pikine Rufisque                                             Gossas                                                                                                                                                                                        Kayes
                                                                    Thiadiaye                                                                                                 Payar
                                                        Mbour                     FATICK
                                                                            Fatick                                                                     oum                                                                      Toubéré Bafal                                       Nayé
                                                                                      Gandiaye Guinguinéo                                           Sal
                                                             Joal      Dioffior




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Falém
                                                          Fadiout             Foundiougne       Kahone                          Kaffrine    KAOLACK
                                                                                        Kaolack




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               é
                                                            Ndangane
               14N                                                                  Passi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14N
                                                                                m




                                                                              lo u                  Ndofane                                  Niahène
                                                                            Sa                                                                                  Koungueul                      Koussanar
                           AT LAN T I C                                       Sakone
                                                                              Sokone
                                                                                      Keur Madiabel
                                                                                                                                     Nganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tambacounda
                            OC E AN                                                     Karang              Nioro du Rip                                                      Maka
                                                                                                                                                                                              dou
                                                                                                                                                                                                 gou
                                                                                                                                                                                       S an
                                                                                   To
                                                                                                          Gambia
                                                                                      THE
                                                                                      TH
                                                                                  Barra
                                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                             TAMBACOUNDA
                                                                        To
                                                                       Banjul        GAM B IA
                                                                                     GAMBIA                                                                                                                       Meedina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dialakoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gounas
                                                                                                                                                       KOLDA                   Vélingara
                                                                                                           Bounkiling                        nce                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ko
                                                                                  Diouloulou                                             a                                                             al
                                                                                                                                     sam                                                                    ink



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ulo
                                                                                                                                Ca                                                                                e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   unt
                                                                                                                                            Diana
                                                                         ZIGUINCHOR                                                         Malari             Kolda                                                                                  Gam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ou
                                                                                                          Marsassoum                                                                                                                                        bie                         Mako
                                                                                    Bignona
                                                                                                                                                                                             nga                                                                                                                 Saraya
                                                                    Tionk-Essyl                                                                                                          Kaya
                                                                                                 Casamance        Sédhiou           Tanaf
                                                                          Ziguinchor                                                         To                                                                                                                                 419 m              Kédougou
                                                                                                    Goudomp                                 Farim                     To                                                          To
                                                        Diembéreng                  Oussouye                                                                         Bafata                                                    Koundara
                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                 Ingore
                 0         25        50      75     100 Kilometers

                                                                                                                           GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                                                                                     To
JANUARY 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 34470
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Balake
                 0              25            50           75 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUINEA
               12N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12N
                     18W                                                                             16W                                                                                        14W                                                                                                12W
