 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14666

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/24/2015

               Country: Senegal
             Project ID: P084022                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Local Authorities             Project Costs (US$M):                      157.0                159.1
                         Development
                         Program
  L/C Number:            C4224                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       80.0                 77.2
      Sector Board:      Urban Development             Cofinancing (US$M):                       18.0                 20.5

           Cofinanciers: French Agency for             Board Approval Date :                                07/18/2006
                         Development                           Closing Date:            12/31/2011          12/16/2013
          Sector(s):     Roads and highways (40%); General water sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);
                         Sub-national government administration (20%); Other social services (20%)
          Theme(s):      Other urban development (29% - P); Municipal finance (29% - P); Municipal governance and
                         institution building (14% - S); Urban services and housing for the poor (14% - S);
                         Decentralization (14% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Roy Gilbert             Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 "to: (a) strengthen the urban municipalities’ capacity to improve resource mobilization, municipal and urban
management; and (b) improve the provision of infrastructure and services in urban areas" (Financing Agreement (FA)
Schedule 1, p.6)

The formulation in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD p.5) differs only slightly in the sub-objective (b), which is "
increase access to and quality of public infrastructure and services in urban areas."

As per normal IEG practice, this ICR Review is based on the assessment of objectives as stated in the legal
document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1: Institutional Development and Capacity Building (appraised US$13.95 million; actual US$9.24
million) included (a) implementation of the Municipal Adjustment Program for the local authorities (67 urban
municipalities, the two urban agencies created in 2004 to be in charge of the Greater Dakar Area: the Community of
Dakar Urban Agglomerations (CADAK), and the Urban Community of Rufisque (CAR); and (b) cross-cutting measures
and support for the Government agencies, selected ministries, and the Municipal Development Agency (MDA).

Component 2: Municipal and Inter -communal Physical Investments (appraised US$124.53 million; actual
US$134.15 million) was to finance (a) municipal contracts for the implementation of priority investment programs
(PIPs) and priority maintenance programs (PMPs) through rehabilitation, maintenance and construction of social,
administrative and economic infrastructure; and (b) larger inter-communal projects for the Dakar metropolitan area
covering major roads, including drainage and street lighting.

Component 3: Support to Project Implementation , Monitoring and Evaluation (appraised US$6.15 million; actual
US$15.71 million) was to support project implementation through the Municipal Development Agency, including staff,
operating costs, monitoring and evaluation, and cost of audits.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The final project cost of US$ 159.1 million is close to the estimated amount of US$ 157 million.There
was some variance, however, of final costs at the level of components, i.e., the actual cost of component 1 was about
35% lower than the appraised estimate, and the actual cost of component 3 was more that twice as much as the
estimate.

Financing: Bank appraised a credit of US$ 80 million and disbursed US$ 77.2 million at project closure. Co-financing
was provided by the French Agency for Development (AFD), which disbursed US$ 20.5 million compared to the
appraised US$ 18 million.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower provided a significant contribution in the amount of US$ 61.3 million at project
closure that matched and slightly exceeded its commitment of US$ 59 million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of two years. The first extension was granted on
October 27, 2011 for 21 months (from December 31, 2011 to September 30, 2013) to allow for completion of physical
and institutional activities. The second extension, for 2.5 months from September 30, 2013 to December 16, 2013,
was granted on September 12, 2013 to allow time for completion of the key drainage works in Rufisque.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The project development objectives were relevant to the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper covering
2006-2010 and the National Strategy for Economic and Social Development (SNDES) 2013-2017 focusing on growth,
sustainable development, and institutions. The project objectives remain relevant to the Bank's Partnership Strategy
FY2013-2017 , especially with its objective of improving public sector accountability and service delivery that covers
the municipal level too. They were also relevant to the Bank's Country Strategy for FY2007-2010 at appraisal, which
aimed at increasing public sector accountability, through support to local governments in delivering services to meet
basic social and infrastructure needs.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of the development objectives was clear, and there was a clear causal chain between the activities
financed by the project and outcomes related to the attainment of the project objectives. For example, implementing
the 67 municipalities' contracts that involved mobilization of local resources, programming and financing of service
delivery, and improvement of assets and financial management could be expected to lead to revenue increases in the
municipal budgets, as the project objective intended. Setting up a sustainable financing mechanism with a specific
technical assistance program was expected to lead to the strengthened CADAK's and CAR's role as inter-communal
bodies in charge of infrastructure for Dakar and Rufisque respectively, together covering the Greater Dakar area.
These, along with investments in infrastructure, aimed directly at improving resource mobilization and the provision of
infrastructure and services in urban areas, as the project intended.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
 (a) To strengthen the urban municipalities’ capacity to improve resource mobilization , municipal and urban
management. Modest.

Outputs (based on ICR's Annex 2, and p.15).
  Street naming activities were carried out, including development of the street naming software (ArcGIS,
    Autocad), urban sketches and geo- referenced ortho-photographs, and a simplified street naming plan of Dakar
    (scale 1/7500),
  Old city maps dating from 1997 were updated for the municipalities of Mbour, Thiès, Kaolack, Ziguinchor,
    Rufisque, Saint Louis, Richard-Toll, Tambacounda, Mbaklé and Kolda.
  12 training modules were carried out for more than 2600 elected officials, municipal agents, treasury and taxes
    agents, and other stakeholders involved in decentralization in Dakar.
    The following studies were carried out for the two institutions CADAK and CAR: (i) studies of the development
     prospects of the Dakar Metropolitan region; (ii) studies on institutional arrangement and financing of the ’
     intercommunalité’’; (iii) study on the management and financing of household waste; and (iv) study of
     inter-communal roads management and maintenance.

Outcome

Improved Resource mobilization. Between 2005 and 2012 the actual municipalities' revenues increased by 54.9%,
surpassing the target of 30%. However, the municipalities supported by the project did better than the rest of the
country only in 2012 (ICR, Table 1, p.34). The data on the evolution of tax revenues by commune was mixed; in 2012,
28 communes (42% of the project- supported communes) did not register any real increase in tax revenues over the
period of 2007-2012, and 17 communes (25% of the project- supported communes) registered absolute drops.
Overall, the ICR p.36 assesses that at least 41 of the 67 communes (61%) did not achieve the project’s outcome of
increasing tax revenues by 30% over the period of 2005 -2012; half of these communes are located in the region of
Dakar, and the surrounding regions of Thies, Djourbel and Fatick. Local revenues, however, increased most in the
poorest regions of Senegal, i.e., Tambacounda, Kolda and Kedougou (ICR, p.36).

Improved Municipal and Urban Management. The annual allocation of local budgets to finance infrastructure
maintenance reached 10.84% by project closure, exceeding the 7% target. However, only 60 municipalities were
using maintenance funds for infrastructure, which was below the target of 67. The percentage of repayments of
municipal loans and contributions exceeded the target of 95% and reached 97.2%; however, as explained by the ICR
p.16, this represents the total amount repaid, while only 18 municipalities repaid on time. Among the possible
explanations, the ICR p. 16 mentions an overestimated borrowing capacity of mid-size Senegalese municipalities, and
a lack of built-in incentives to reimburse the loans under the project. With regard to the improvement of Dakar's
metropolitan area management, the ICR p.13 assesses that the two institutions in charge of the Dakar's metropolitan
area, CADAK and CAR, were still not efficient, and management of the Greater Dakar Area still remained to be
improved at completion.


(b) To improve the provision of infrastructure and services in urban areas . Modest.

Outputs

    The infrastructure and service were provided through the inter-communal investment programs and priority
     investment programs in 67 urban municipalities. The works mainly consisted of rehabilitation and extension of
     road infrastructure (103 km), electricity network (178 km), potable water network (18km), as well as rehabilitation
     and construction of administrative buildings (20), 43 social and community facilities (43), market places and bus
     stations (26), sanitary facilities (health posts and health centers (19), the rehabilitation of 2 historical sites in
     Gorée and Saint Louis, and 2 elementary schools (ICR, p.16).
    The project’s support of about US$1.8 million in Djourbel, for road infrastructure, the rehabilitation of the health
     center and the extension of the market, was cancelled for the particularly high level of the city’s indebtedness to
     the Municipal Development Agency (ICR, Annex 3).

Outcome
No specific post-assessment of outcomes under this sub-objective was carried out at project closure. The ICR p.16
admits that such assessment could have provided more information on the achievement (i.e. percentage of users
satisfied with the rehabilitation or upgrading of the infrastructure or service under the project). The ICR p.16 finds that
the municipalities were slower than expected to effectively use the facilities (79% against the target of 95%). Overall,
with such substantial investments into rehabilitation works (equivalent to 1% of 2012 GDP of Senegal (ICR p.17)), it
would be reasonable to conclude that the provision of infrastructure improved in the selected urban areas.

5. Efficiency:

The ex-post project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 23.8% . The estimated project benefits
included (i) additional demand for labor and goods and services directly generated by the project; (ii) user’s benefits
and contribution to additional growth from road infrastructure (iii) health gains and (iv) benefits from electrification
(ICR, p.46). The ex-ante ERR (54.4%) was only estimated for road works for a total length of 23.2 km representing a
total investment of US$30.3 million (PAD, p.15). As explained by the PAD, the investments to be financed under the
municipal priority investment programs (PIPs) were based on demand, therefore an ex-ante economic analysis was
not possible. In addition, some benefits attached to specific equipment (drainage, environmental investments, and
buildings) were found difficult to quantify. The municipal investment programs were to be implemented with an
objective of at least 20% of the contract amounts redistributed through labor costs. At closure, labor's share of the
total costs of municipal investment programs was 19.02% (ICR, p.viii).
Efficiency is assessed as substantial.



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                         No

      ICR estimate                     Yes                                      23.8%                                    100%
                                           * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design substantial. With modest efficacy, and substantial
efficiency, the overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Financial Risk.

     The financial risk is still significant in relation to the ability of municipalities to repay their loans. The clearing of
      the arrears of the CCC (Compte de Crédit Communal) closed under the previous Bank -supported project that
      introduced the 'municipal contract' model (Urban Development and Decentralization Project-P002365) was
      carried out under this project. Only 18 municipalities were on time with their repayments under the project;
      payment defaults occurred with some of the operations (in Djourbel), causing PIP financing for these
      municipalities to be cancelled or reduced (timely reimbursement of loans was an eligibility criteria under the
      project).The reasons suggested by the ICR p.16 include an overestimated borrowing capacity of mid-size
      municipalities in Senegal, and lack of built-in incentives to reimburse the loans. Also, the results of the Dakar
      Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment carried out during project implementation show the slow
      implementation of a direct loan made by the French Agency for Development (AFD) to the city of Dakar. A similar
      offer was considered but dropped from IFC due to high risks, even for a city like Dakar (ICR, p.25).

     In addition, the capacity of MDA to further assume its financial role will not be sustainable, especially in the
      context of the Third Act of Decentralization where the number of municipalities is expected to significantly
      increase. The ICR p. 25 notes that the ability to maintain a sustainable flow of financial transfers from the center
      to the local level was not taken into account by the Government when the decision was made to increase the
      number of communes from 67 to 172. Without commensurate increases in transfers, each municipality will
      receive far fewer resources in the future.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was built on a continuous Bank's engagement in supporting the urban sector and local
government development in Senegal since 1972. This included the Urban Development and Decentralization
Project (UDDP) that closed in 2004 and was rated highly satisfactory by IEG. The UDDP project introduced
'municipal contacts' that exposed the municipalities to borrowing, i.e., all 67 municipal governments in Senegal
signed the Municipal Adjustment Program (MAP) agreements in order to be able to receive grant or loan financing
for infrastructure projects. The Municipal Development Agency (MDA) was created for implementing the UDDP in
1997, and was selected as the implementing agency for this project by both the Bank and co-financier AFD. Close
cooperation with AFD allowed for joint identification and appraisal missions, a substantial commitment of AFD
co-financing (reaching US$18 million equivalent), and a single project design and implementation mechanism
approved by both donors. The project also used the Public Works Executing Agency (AGETIP) as Contract
Management Agency (CMA) for a two- year period covering 48 out of 67 municipal contracts. The overload of the
AGETIP/CMA after effectiveness however was not expected resulting in implementation delays.
   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p. 21 reports that two supervision missions were carried out each year from 2007 to 2012, and four
supervision missions were carried out during the last year of implementation in 2013. Procurement reviews, as
well as environment and social dedicated missions took place, compelling the implementing agencies to strictly
follow IDA procedures and regulations and providing support when needed. The reassessment of the risks was
made at mid-term review, and action plans were prepared to deal with challenges in support to CADAK and CAR,
the Grant System for Local Governments (FECL) reform and bottlenecks at AGETIP and MDA.

The project benefited from the project team leader continuity until mid-2011. There were three other Bank team
leaders after that. The transitions caused a slow-down of project implementation due to delays in no-objections
pending the resolution of numerous contract management issues. The ICR p.22 also assesses that the overload
of AGETIP’s work program by parallel Bank task teams could have better managed from the Bank's side.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    During project preparation and implementation, the Government showed its commitment to the project
exercising adequate institutional oversight (ICR, p.22). The Government implemented the decentralization policy
as defined in the Letter of Sector Policy that was prepared under the previous project and remained valid. The
Government also exceeded the financing targets set up under the project and adequately managed the fiscal
transfers to local authorities (although with a one-year delay that negatively impacted the investment programs,
ICR p.22), in particular increasing the FECL from US$9.8 million in 1998 to US$33.8 million in 2013 (ICR, p.13). It
financed its share (50% of the MDA’s operating costs) and various legal and administrative measures that allowed
for continued MDA functioning, including facilitating implementation of municipal contracts. However, institutional
disruptions following local elections of March 2009 and in preparation of the presidential elections of March 2012
affected the course of implementation, and the Government was not able to: (i) submit the Public Works Contract
Law (MOP) by MTR to the National Assembly, as planned; (ii) empower CADAK and CAR as needed; and (iii)
pursue the reform of the FECL, while allowing the creation of a large number of new urban communes (from 67 to
172).

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented by the Municipal Development Agency (MDA), which used a Contract
Management Agency for the works. For a two-year period this was the Public Works Executing Agency
(AGETIP), and at a later stage, Regional Development Agencies.

MDA had the implementation responsibility for the overall project and for Components A and C. As described by
the ICR p.23, the MDA had to work in a difficult context with a complex institutional decentralization set-up. The
project was well managed though; and monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out. Procurement
activities and Environmental and Social Safeguards were in compliance with Bank guidelines.

AGETIP: carried out most of the works for which it was contracted but did it so with noticeable delays. The delays
were triggered by the internal management organization and processes within AGETIP, not adequately designed
to handle the number of contracts and work sites to manage (ICR, p.23) These bottlenecks and related mitigation
measures were identified in due time by MDA. However, all measures to overcome them were not implemented as
expected, leading to non-completion of some works.

Regional Development Agencies. The ICR p. 23 reports that these agencies were always available to the Bank
supervision teams and worked together to resolve issues during project preparation and implementation.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    Not all the key outcome indicators were appropriately linked with the project development objectives. While
strengthened urban municipalities’ capacity to improve resource mobilization, municipal and urban management was
to be measured through the level of resource mobilization and share allocated annually through the local authorities’
budget to finance infrastructure and maintenance, the improved provision of infrastructure and services lacked
appropriate indicators to measure the outcome. Also, as the ICR p. 8 notes, no specific indicators were linked directly
to progress on infrastructure assets implementation; the output indicators did not allow proper tracking of physical
investments, which accounted for 84 percent of project financing.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The M&E prepared before appraisal was applied throughout the project life. Although the very large amount of
information to be collected created an important workload at the MDA level, data was provided at least quarterly, twice
yearly or yearly, as planned. A web site was created and managed by the MDA to increase the dissemination of
project and sector information as well as transparency. While the M&E framework did not allow monitoring of the
progress of implementing the project's physical assets, it could follow up disbursement.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   In addition to providing information for M&E, the data collection helped MDA provide the Government with
important sector analyses, including some leading to publication (on paper and the Internet) for the public. Some of
the indicators and other data were still being collected by the MDA at project closure as input to specific reports.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “B” project that triggered two safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, and OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.

The ICR p.21 reports that "the project complied with Bank fiduciary and safeguards policies". A project Environmental
Assessment (EA), Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) were prepared, approved and published before Approval. In addition, by Mid-Term Review, the Bank had
approved three key documents to improve the environmental management of the project: an updated version of the
ESMF and RPF, the Project Implementation Manual for Environment and Social Management and an institutional
diagnosis. The MDA also developed and successfully utilized an environmental and social screening mechanism to
help categorize the small subprojects submitted by the 67 municipalities. A few simplified resettlement plans were
produced. All detailed environmental and social analyses, as well as all resettlement plans produced, were approved
by the Bank. Appropriate mitigation measures were prepared and implemented, or included in bidding documents
when appropriate. Environmental and social reviews were carried out by Bank staff and by the MDA with external
consultants to ensure quality of environment and social activities,
including resettlement, and confirm they were adequately following the Bank procedures.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement. Procurement was carried out essentially through two existing institutions: (i) the MDA, which was
responsible for procurement under the Municipal Adjustment Program (recruiting consultants and training agencies),
implementing cross-cutting institutional support, technical and financial audits, and consultants for M&E (Component
A); and (ii) AGETIP responsible for procurement of works infrastructure (Component B). The ICR p. 9 evaluates
procurement management as satisfactory as both agencies were familiar with World Bank procedures and both had
procurement units. Procurement reviews were carried out to ensure quality of procurement by these agencies and
confirm they were adequately using the Bank procedures. Three external technical audits were carried out: one in
2010 for MTR, and two by Scet Tunisie in 2011 and 2013. They all included a review of the procurement activities by
the two agencies.procurement activities for a few municipalities were handled by Regional Development Agencies
(RDA) recently created by the Government. Although each RDA could not handle a large volume of procurement
activities, or handle large contracts, the test demonstrated that RDAs can offer a valid solution for small-scale
procurement activities in small communes.

Financial management. The MDA was responsible for the financial management of all project activities, including
consolidation of financial data provided by the CMA. A Finance and Administrative Director and an External Auditor
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank were recruited by the MDA. An Internal Auditor was
recruited by the MDA during project implementation to improve internal controls. The external audits were produced
on a regular basis. MDA’s administrative, accounting and financial manual were approved at the beginning of the
project and updated when needed. Adequate reporting was made available to the Bank most of the time, whereas
some shortcomings were noticed in internal controls (ICR, p.10). The project team clarified that these included the
absence of appointed substitutes authorized to sign payment checks on behalf of the Director of ADM and Chief
Financial Officer. Overall, the ICR p.21 reports that the project complied with Bank fiduciary policy.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately          Relevance of objectives is rated high,
                                                            Satisfactory        and that of design substantial. With
                                                                                modest efficacy, and substantial
                                                                                efficiency, the overall outcome rating is
                                                                                Moderately Satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant         Financial risk is significant in relation to
                     Outcome:                                                   the municipalities' capacity to reimburse
                                                                                the loans.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 IEG selected a number of lessons from the ICR, with some adaptation:

    The 'municipal contract ' model that allows borrowing is still relevant for municipal financing , however design
     should be adjusted to ensure sustainability of the model . Not all municipalities were able to repay the loans,
     and payment defaults occurred under this project. The option of having different types of contracts could be
     considered for: (i) municipalities with proven capacity to borrow and pay back in due time; (ii) those who could
     afford some self-financing; and (iii) those who could not do without a 100 percent subsidy. Also, disciplinary
     measures could be considered for municipalities that do not reimburse their loans.

    Continued strong international support is still important for the 'municipal contract ' system work in Senegal .
     Lending to local institutions remains problematic in Senegal. The clearing of the arrears of the CCC (Compte
     de Crédit Communal) closed under the previous Bank- supported project (UDDP) was carried out under this
     project. Not all small or medium-size cities in Senegal are ready for borrowing, however. Although there may
    be opportunities for a few municipalities to benefit from longer-term financing, it is very likely that most of
    municipal financing would still depend on Government transfers and donor funds in Senegal.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

In its main text of 26 pages, the ICR lacks a number of important details. Repetition, such about the relevance of
project objectives in paras. 46 and 48, makes the report longer than it need be. Despite this, the description of project
investments and technical assistance was cursory and, at times, uninformative. The ICR, for instance, introduces
Component A of Institutional Development and Capacity Building, arguably the project's most important, over nearly
one full page of the report's text. Within this large space it still does not specify exactly what the US$9.24 million of
Bank funding were spent on. Instead it describes the component interventions generically as "activities", leaving the
reader uninformed about what they were. Even when better specified later in the report, it is still difficult to see from
the ICR material how the institutional strengthening activities could have led to the listed outcomes of improved tax
revenue collection, for instance. The ICR could have paid more attention to the attribution of observed results to the
project interventions. In the case of municipal revenues, the ICR itself alludes to another possible cause of their more
rapid growth (48.3 percent for all municipalities over the 2007-2012 project period) than Senegal's GDP of 32.6
percent over the same period (ICR p. 17). The cause could be delays to central government fiscal transfers to local
government following the international financial crisis of 2008 (ICR p .18), forcing local governments to make up the
difference. Also, it is not always clear from the ICR what types of civil works were carried out, in particular
rehabilitation or construction. Also, there are a number of statements of evidence that are not referenced or sourced,
in particular those related to the outcomes of the infrastructure works financed under the project (e.g., p.16, last para
under (b) ). For this example, the Bank later clarified to IEG that the source of the ICR material was the Borrower ICR
itself. The ICR's conclusion (p. 17) that the project had a significant impact in Senegal because the project's total
investment of US$133.6 million (on page 17, although page 27 reports US$159.1 million) was equivalent to one
percent of Senegal's GDP for 2012 is not well founded. Project spending was made over a seven year period and the
GDP cited refers to only one year. A more meaningful comparison would be between the project's total spending and
Senegal's accumulated GDP over the same period. This would realistically report a much lower impact. The project's
average annual spending was some US$20 million, around one fifth of Senegal's 2012 GDP. Another unusual finding
of the ICR, this time in relation to the risk to the project's development outcome, is that the "the infrastructure built
under the project is unlikely to disappear" (p. 20). Instead, the ICR assessment should have been about the likely
resilience of the project's benefit streams into the future, which could remain weak even if the infrastructure does not
disappear.

Overall, the more insightful analysis are found in the ICR's Annex 3. To be more accessible to readers, the ICR would
have benefitted from incorporating such analysis in a succinct manner into the main text of the report.

Several errors in the ICR point to hasty finalizing of the report. For instance: (i) ICR Annex 1 Tables of Project Costs
and Financing provide incorrect figures for actual costs as percentages of the appraisal costs (ICR p.27); (ii) ex-post
ERRs reported as 23.8% on p.46 but differently on p.17 as 26.8%; (iii) reporting CMA operating costs at completion as
3.8% of the total as an achievement when reporting at the same time that the baseline figure was already below 5%;
(iv) list of acronyms on report's opening page appears truncated at letter 'r'; explaining perhaps why widely used
acronyms, such as "SSA" and "UDDP", for instance, do not appear in that list.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
