                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR0000985




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-41450 IDA-41451)




                                 ON A

                              LOAN/CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.9 MILLION
                    (US$ 46.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                 FOR A

        SECOND PARTNERSHIP FOR POLIO ERADICATION PROJECT

                            December 30, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2008)

                            Currency Unit = PKRs
                            PKRs 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                               US$ 1.00 = 68.10

                               FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1- June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  AFP    Acute Flaccid Paralysis
  AJK    Azad Jammu and Kashmir
  BMGF   Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
  CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
  DO     Development Objective
  EMRO   Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office (WHO)
  EPI    Expanded Program on Immunization
  FANA   Federally Administered Northern Area
  FATA   Federally Administered Tribal Areas
  GoP    Government of Pakistan
  GPEI   Global Polio Eradication Initiative
  IACC   Inter-Agency Coordination Committee
  IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
  ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
  IDA    International Development Association
  IEG    Independent Evaluation Group
  IMR    Infant Mortality Rate
  ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
  JICA   Japan International Cooperation Agency
  MDG    Millennium Development Goal/s
  M & E  Monitoring & Evaluation
  NID    National Immunization Days
  NIH    National Institute of Health
  NWFP   North Western Frontier Province
  OPV    Oral Polio Vaccine
  PAD    Project Appraisal Document
  PDO    Project Development Objective
  PEI    Polio Eradication Initiative
  PKR    Pakistani Rupee
  PPEP   Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
  PPF    Project Preparation Facility
  PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
  PSES   Pakistan Socio Economic Survey

QEA   Quality at Entry
QSA   Quality at Supervision
SASHD South Asia Human Development Division
SIAs  Supplementary Immunization Activities
SNID  Sub-National Immunization Days
SPPEP Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
TAG   Technical Advisory Group
UNF   United Nations Foundation
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
WHO   World Health Organization
WPV   Wild Polio Virus



                     Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                   Country Director: Yusupha B. Crookes
                    Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
               Project Team Leader: Inaam Haq
                  ICR Team Leader: Preeti Kudesia

                                                Pakistan
                       Second Partnership for Polio Eradication




                                             CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 20
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 21
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 22
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 27
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Pakistan: Second
Country:                Pakistan               Project Name:          Partnership for Polio
                                                                      Eradication Project
Project ID:             P097402                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-41450,IDA-41451
ICR Date:               12/30/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      OF PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 32.9M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 46.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Expanded Program on Immunization, Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/10/2005    Effectiveness:        03/08/2006          03/08/2006
Appraisal:             10/24/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/26/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              06/30/2008          06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                        100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                  Primary           Primary
Other communicable diseases                                   Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero               Praful C. Patel
Country Director:         Yusupha B. Crookes               John W. Wall
Sector Manager:           Julie McLaughlin                 Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:      Inaam Haq                        Inaam Haq
ICR Team Leader:          Preeti Kudesia
ICR Primary Author:      Preeti Kudesia



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective is to assist Pakistan's effort to eradicate polio through supply of the oral
polio vaccine (OPV), for the country's supplementary immunization activities (SIAs)
during 2006-07. This is an input into the Government of Pakistan#s (GoP's) program to
eradicate Polio and is a follow-on project of the Partnership for Polio Eradication Project.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval            Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   OPV immunization coverage in the targeted population in each of the four
                provinces
                                                                             For the target group

Value                                      Coverage of 85%                   (<5yrs) more than

quantitative or 97%                        achieved in the                   85% coverage

Qualitative)                               provinces in 2006                 achieved in all four
                                           and 2007                          provinces in 2006,
                                                                             2007 and 2008
Date achieved 08/30/2005                   06/30/2008                        06/30/2008

Comments        Post campaign coverage independent survey of Jan 2008: Punjab: 99%, Sindh:

(incl. %        95%, NWFP/FATA: 97% and Balochistan: 94%; Post campaign coverage for

achievement)    2006: Punjab: 98%, NWFP/FATA: 96.13%, Sindh: 96.63% and Balochistan:
                95.88%;
Indicator 2 :   Number of confirmed Polio Cases reported
                                                                             2006: 40 cases
Value                                                                        2007: 32 cases
quantitative or 28                         0                                 2008 17 cases (until
Qualitative)                                                                 June 30, 2008)

Date achieved 12/31/2005                   06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        After June 30, 2008 (project closing) the number of reported cases has increased

achievement)    substantially - 81 cases have been reported until October, 15 2008


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Timely arrival of the OPV at the central stores of the EPI Supply of vaccine 5
                weeks prior to SIA rounds in 2006 and 2007
                                                              Arrival at
                                                              district stores2007 (June 14 to

Value           0% arrived in stipulated                      5 days prior toDec 31): 89.5% of

(quantitative   time; 70% arrival          Arrival 5 weeks    each SIA,      4 rounds

or Qualitative) between 20-34 days         prior to each SIA  measured in at 2008 (till June 30):

                                                              least one-third80% of one round

                                                              of districts
Date achieved 09/30/2006                   06/13/2007         06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments        2006: 0% of 8 rounds
(incl. %        2007 (till June 13): 20% of 5 rounds
achievement)


                                                iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1   04/03/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           27.23
  2   10/03/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           27.23
  3   04/20/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           47.92
  4   09/06/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           69.06
  5   03/21/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           69.06
  6   06/30/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           69.24



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Pakistan is committed, though not on track1, to achieving the health related Millennium
Development Goals (MDG) with an infant mortality rate at 78 per 1,000 live births, under-five
mortality rate at 94 per 1,000 live births, and maternal mortality ratio at 276 maternal deaths per
100,000 births2. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), April 2006 supports the country's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). For achieving health outcomes, the strategy is to
continue and strengthen the shift from curative services to preventive and primary health care;
and prioritize control of communicable diseases, reproductive health, child health and nutrition.
A multivariate analysis using the Pakistan Socio Economic Survey (PSES) suggests that
expanded immunization coverage linked with other services is associated with the largest
potential decline in IMR3 .

In 1988, the 41st World Health Assembly launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI)
to eradicate polio by the end of the year 2003. GPEI is the largest public health initiative that has
successfully supported elimination of polio from all but four countries4 in the world. Despite this
progress, the situation remains fragile as between 2003-05, 25 previously polio-free countries
were re-infected due to imports of the virus. Persistent pockets of polio transmission in northern
India, northern Nigeria, and the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan are key
epidemiological challenges. Polio virus transmission in endemic countries remains the last
hurdle for a polio free world, as a single infected child can put the entire world's children at risk.

The Polio Eradication Initiative (PEI) started in Pakistan in 1994 with initiation of Supplemental
Immunization Activities (SIA) as part of the routine Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI).
In 1999, immunization activities were intensified with house-to-house immunization.
Subsequently Sub-National Immunization Days (SNID) were introduced to target high risk
districts and the areas bordering Afghanistan and Iran. The Government of Pakistan (GoP)
financed National Immunization Days (NID) during 1994-96 primarily using its own resources.
Subsequently, to further intensify efforts, assistance was secured from various global
development partners. As the prospect of elimination5 of polio came closer, additional financing
was needed to meet the enhanced vaccine requirements.

IDA has supported Pakistan's PEI since 2003. This was done through an innovative financing
mechanism ­ the buy-down arrangement through the Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
(PPEP) (2003-05) which included a supplementary credit similar to the project under review.
Funds provided by partners, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) and United Nations
Foundation (UNF) established the Polio Eradication Trust Fund (managed by the World Bank).



1Draft Health Sector Review, September 2008
2Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey, 2006-07
3World Bank 2005 ­ South Asia Human Development Sector, Discussion Paper Series, Report No.8
4Afghanistan, India, Nigeria and Pakistan
5In the country context, the appropriate description is `elimination', while `eradication' is used in the global context.


                                                           1

These funds were used to pay the service fees for the Credit during implementation and "buy-
down" the net present value of the IDA Credit when the project was certified by competent
technical authorities to have been successfully completed. Since the IDA buy-down mechanism
converts the credit into a grant only upon satisfactory implementation, it encourages the
government to focus on sound implementation and results. At the same time, the buy-down
mechanism is preferred over a normal IDA credit as polio eradication is a responsibility of the
global community and not just the last few polio-endemic countries. Also, the incentive for a
single country to invest in elimination is limited. Through the partnership, the partners were also
able to access rigor of the Bank's project preparation and supervision in support of their efforts
for polio eradication. Following successful completion of the first partnership project, there was
a need to continue with the SIA's for at least another three years. For this, stable and secure
financing of oral polio vaccine (OPV), which comprised more than half of SIA expenditures was
required for 2006-07, and thus the agreement for IDA to support this follow-on project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objective was to assist Pakistan's effort to eradicate polio through supply of the oral polio
vaccine (OPV), for the country's supplementary immunization activities (SIAs) during 2006-07.

The Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project (SPPEP) was part of the WHO-led multi-
country effort and would contribute to a global public good, i.e., the eradication of polio from the
world. SPPEP was a follow-on project of the first Partnership for Polio Eradication Project.

The key indicators to measure project performance were the following:

    · Timely arrival of the OPV at the central stores of the Expanded Program on
        Immunization, Islamabad; (Target: at least five weeks before each of the SIAs);
    · SIA coverage in the targeted population (under-five children) in each of the four
        provinces during 2006 and 2007 (Target 85%); and
    · Number of confirmed cases reported (Target Zero Case).

Achievement of the targets for the first two key indicators would be the trigger for the IDA buy-
down.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
At the time of Additional Financing for the SPPEP (described in Section 1.7), which became
effective on June 14, 2007, the PDO remained the same. However, there was a change in one of
the key performance monitoring indicators. The first indicator ­ arrival of OPV at the central
stores at least five weeks before each SIA ­ was revised to "timely arrival of OPV at the District
stores five days before each SIA".

This revision was deemed necessary since the original indicator was difficult to achieve due to a
global supply shortage of OPV and delayed supply of monovalent OPV due to the tight global
supply situation, compounded by the fact that the change in type of vaccine to be used in some
rounds was realized at short notice (due to the changing epidemiology). SPPEP was approved by
the Board on January 26, 2006 and became effective on March 08, 2006. The first PPEP closed



                                                  2

on June 30, 2006, and the same key indicators as the first project were retained for SPPEP.
Subsequently, the third party performance audit (August 28 ­ September 5, 2006) for the first
PPEP highlighted that this indicator was inappropriate (ambitious and unachievable) to assess
GoP performance as OPV arrival was determined by the global supply situation which was
beyond the control of GoP. Implementation of SPPEP during its first year also substantiated that
the indicator was ambitious. Therefore, at the time of additional financing the Borrower and the
Bank agreed to revise the indicator to one which was within the control of GoP and hence,
realistic to measure its performance.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The beneficiaries of the project were all under-five children of Pakistan. The SIAs particularly
targeted poor, remote and underprivileged communities, and children whose mothers were
unable to take them to health facilities due to restricted female mobility, as these groups were
more difficult to access through routine immunization. Children, who for different reasons, did
not receive the immunization, would also potentially have benefitted from the herd immunity
developed when immunization coverage of at least 80% was achieved.

Additionally, the children being administered OPV as part of NIDs, also received Vitamin A,
which besides reducing the incidence of Vitamin A deficiency-related blindness, also plays an
important role in the reduction of infant mortality.

Polio immunization with the objective of polio eradication is a global public good and therefore,
the beneficiaries extend beyond the immediate target group to all children in the world and a
polio-free future.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had a single component, financing for the timely procurement and supply of OPV
and its effective use during 2006- 07 SIAs.

The project supported the PEI, by financing its first component (US$ 61.40 million). The three
components of PEI are: (i) OPV procurement; (b) supplemental operations; and (iii) surveillance.
Co-financiers funded the second and third components ­ supplemental operations (US$ 36.00
million) and surveillance (US$ 3 million), thereby amounting to a total support of US$ 100.40
million.

The other two components of PEI were supported by UNICEF and WHO. The second
component of supplemental activities included: (a) maintenance of the cold chain; (b) social
mobilization; and (c) training. International and national contractual staff, with WHO and
UNICEF oversight, supported the national units and field units/activities at the provincial and
district levels and below. The third component of surveillance included laboratory and
epidemiological surveillance, which is fully operational in Pakistan and is regularly reviewed by
technical experts ­ the Technical Advisory Group (TAG) - a group of international and national
experts.

1.6 Revised Components Not Applicable




                                                  3

  1.7 Other significant changes
  Additional Financing: The original credit for SPPEP of US$ 46.70 million was disbursed about
  ten months (July 2007) earlier than envisaged. Despite effective implementation of SIAs with
  high coverage of the targeted population in 2006, the number of polio cases had increased from
  28 in 2005 to 40 in 2006. This increased number of polio cases was to some extent due to the
  resurgence of one of the three types of the polio virus. Wild Polio Virus (WPV) transmission
  continued in four geographical zones and extended up to Southern Afghanistan. However,
  despite the increased number of cases, there was epidemiological evidence that virus
  transmission had been restricted in the country and the opportunity for elimination in Pakistan
  remained strong. The TAG endorsed intensifying the SIAs besides improving their quality,
  increasing the number of SNIDs and case response campaigns, enhancing co-ordination with
  Afghanistan, and increasing the use of type-specific monovalent vaccine for specific rounds.
  The increased number of proposed rounds increased the potential vaccine requirement.
  Therefore, an additional Credit of US$ 21.14 million was proposed by GoP, approved by IDA on
  June 07, 2007 and became effective on June 14, 2007, in order to finance the procurement of
  additional OPV required for SIAs planned between August 2007 ­ January 2008. The PDO,
  project component and other aspects of the project remained the same. One key performance
  indicator was changed as described in Section1.3.

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

  2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
  This project was the second partnership for polio eradication following a successful first, similar
  project (PPEP). The project was prepared prior to closure of the first project. At that time (Oct-
  Nov. 2005), the number of polio cases in Pakistan had declined significantly, and it was expected
  that the country was most likely to interrupt WPV transmission by the end of 2005, when the
  incidence fell to 28 cases.

Year   1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007                                Until
                                                                                          06/30/2008*
No.    1147 341         558      199      119     90   103    53    28      40    32      17
of
cases
  * 81 cases had been reported until October 15 2008

  As per WHO recommendations to certify the country as polio-free, it would require at least 12
  months to demonstrate that interruption had occurred, and Pakistan would need to continue SIAs
  for at least three years following the last confirmed case to ensure total elimination. Until global
  eradication was achieved, SIAs with high coverage would be necessary to prevent reintroduction
  of the virus into Pakistan. Based on these facts, and recommendations of the TAG, GoP was
  fully committed to polio elimination, and had prepared a plan for supplementary immunization
  activities for 2006-08 as follows:

                    Year       No. of NIDs          No. of mop-ups/outbreak response rounds
                    2006       6                    4
                    2007       4                    2
                    2008       4                    2


                                                       4

In order to support this plan, GoP requested the Bank to support the first component of it's PEI
and address the critical financing gap by procuring requisite quantities of OPV utilizing the IDA
buy-down mechanism, which had been piloted for the first project. Thus the project supported
an effective program strategy that had been fully endorsed by international experts, utilizing a
simple and clearly defined design that was working for the first project. Project design reflected
lessons learned, and was to be implemented through the existing EPI program management
structures rather than a separate project management unit. Though the IDA buy-down
mechanism had not yet been triggered to draw-down the credit (subsequently attained) as the
first project was ongoing, the program was reported to be achieving its objectives. The
performance-based project design enabled the country's PEI to focus on outcomes and results. A
technically validated monitoring and evaluation system was in place to measure these results.
The only weakness in the design was the choice of the indicator of timely arrival of the vaccine,
which is described in Section 1.3.

At project preparation, the primary risk assessed was the delay in achieving polio eradication
both nationally and internationally, despite high coverage of SIAs. In hindsight, this risk has
proved to be real. The program revised its strategy to include the use of monovalent OPV in
response to the changing viral epidemiology. Prior to project appraisal and negotiations, Pakistan
was affected by a devastating earthquake on Oct 08, 2005. Although it was envisaged that the
risk of reestablishment of polio virus in the affected areas of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK)
and North Western Frontier Province (NWFP) was low, GoP started preemptive OPV
immunization targeting all children in the tented villages and attending field hospitals, and
through mobile teams in accessible areas.

2.2 Implementation
Several factors contributed to implementation of the project, which was overall moderately
successful. These include: (i) a consistent commitment of the government to polio elimination
and establishment of a strong partnership with donors and technical experts; (ii) timely
preparation (which ensured a smooth transition from the first to second project, thereby ensuring
no interruption in OPV supplies for planned SIAs; (iii) utilizing the same design and financing
mechanism as the first project; (iv) existence and effective use of a reliable monitoring and
surveillance system enabling identification of high-risk areas and changing viral epidemiology;
(v) a well functioning cold chain, social mobilization, and training which were critical factors
enabling the project to achieve the high coverage rates of SIAs; and (vi) high quality technical
oversight of the program by national and international experts coupled with an adequate response
to surveillance data.

During implementation, as described in Section 1.7, the project responded to the need for
additional financing to enable procurement of OPV required for the period Aug 2007 ­ Jan 2008.
GoP had explored alternate financing options, including from other development partners.
However, it was determined that Bank financing and the leverage of IDA buy-down was the
preferred option.

Procurement of OPV, which constituted the single component of the project, was efficiently
managed by adopting the same arrangement as used for the first project. UNICEF was the
designated procurement agent for OPV. This was deemed necessary due to the very tight supply


                                                  5

and demand situation of OPV required for the global eradication effort. OPV was procured and
supplied to GoP under an agreement between GoP and UNICEF. UNICEF's international
procurement division, based in Copenhagen, undertook the procurement following UNICEF's
procurement procedures. The National Program Manger, EPI, was responsible for receiving the
OPV at the National Institute of Health (NIH), Islamabad, and for its in-country storage,
distribution, administration and use. UNICEF's internal controls on use of funds, procurement
and utilization of vaccine were considered adequate and it was agreed that the Bank would rely
on these. Disbursements were made under a single blanket Withdrawal Application for the full
amount of credit. Vaccine requirements were forecasted by the National Program Manger, EPI,
with the technical support of WHO and UNICEF. This was based on the latest estimates of the
population of children under five years of age and the number of rounds/doses to be given per
child during the given year. These requirements were endorsed by the Inter-Agency
Coordination Committee (IACC)6 and the TAG based on surveillance data.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design:

The monitoring and surveillance system for the program, including for SIAs, was well
established even prior to the first project. SPPEP made use of the same system, thereby ensuring
utilization, and further strengthening of the existing capacity and sustainability. The M&E
system included: (i) SIA coverage data; (ii) output monitoring of quality and coverage of SIA;
(iii) SIA outcome monitoring through Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) surveillance; (iv) periodic
progress assessment reports of the TAG/independent coverage and quality evaluations; (v)
Vaccine Arrival Reports (VAR) which, besides vaccine arrival time, also provided details of
vaccine condition at arrival ­ right temperature, quantities and expiration dates; and (vi) WHO
performance audit within three months of project closing which would report on timely vaccine
procurement, vaccine use, and coverage of target population.

The indicators utilized by the project, and the revision, have been described in Sections 1.2 and
1.3. The coverage indicator was retained at 85% though reported baseline average coverage was
higher. This was because a minimum level of 85% is important for herd immunity. Since June
2008 the program has been utilizing finger marking checks rather than recall. This has indicated
the potential for over-reporting of coverage rates based on recall alone. Based on these recent
reports, WHO has recommended that, in the future, the coverage indicator should remain 85% as
reported by finger marking.

M&E Implementation:

        (i)    SIA coverage data was regularly reported by recording the number of children
               immunized during each round against the number in the target group. This target
               was calculated by applying growth rate projections to the 1998 population census
               figure.



6Members of IACC ­ Ministry of Health, GoP, federal and provincial EPI program officers, UNICEF, WHO,
World Bank, JICA, DFID, public health advisors ­ national and from EMRO.


                                                      6

         (ii)     Output monitoring of quality and coverage was undertaken immediately after
                  each SIA in all districts. This was done by district-level semi-independent teams
                  consisting of national and district staff and WHO/UNICEF consultants. Output
                  indicators of quality included information on percentage of missed/poorly covered
                  areas, teams that had recorded unvaccinated children, teams with at least one
                  female member, training attendance, and communication efforts including display
                  of posters and announcements in mosques.
         (iii)    The AFP surveillance system in Pakistan has been fully operational and has
                  achieved and maintained international standards for quality in key indicators since
                  2000. These indicators are: (a) non-polio AFP rate - at least one non-polio AFP
                  case per 100,000 persons aged < 15 years7; and (b) completeness and timeliness
                  of stool specimen collection ­ at least 80% of AFP cases with two adequate stool
                  specimens collected from patients within 14 days of onset of paralysis. The
                  surveillance system is supported by nearly 67 WHO Surveillance Officers
                  throughout the country.
         (iv)     The TAG reviews (both by national and international professionals) the status of
                  PEI. A review in early 2008 reported that despite security challenges significant
                  efforts were being made by the program to address constraints and that its
                  previous recommendations were being implemented. It also emphasized areas for
                  follow-up and strengthening.
         (v)      A post-campaign independent assessment for the January 22- 24, 2008 NID was
                  undertaken by the Health Services Academy, Islamabad. Campaign coverage was
                  reported based on a randomized cluster survey in identified districts in all four
                  provinces of the country, including a cluster from 12 towns of Karachi8. This
                  survey also reported on the reasons for non-vaccination of children, the level of
                  awareness of households, and how communities get their information.
         (vi)     The WHO/EMRO Audit Report was carried out between August 17-28, 2008, and
                  its findings concluded that the targets for the project had been achieved. These
                  findings would be used to trigger the IDA buy-down.

M&E Utilization: The program has effectively utilized data for planning SIAs, including vaccine
requirements and geographical areas/population groups needing focused attention. The last
supervision mission for the project in Feb-Mar 2008 reported that despite effective
implementation of SIAs, polio virus transmission persisted in two zones of the country and also
spread to some polio-free districts of NWFP and Sindh province in 2007. The increasing number
of cases and persisting transmission was due to: resurgence of the P3 sub-type of the polio virus;
inaccessibility to children due to the highly volatile and changing security situation in areas
(mainly NWFP and parts of Balochistan) and federally administered tribal areas (FATA); gaps in




7This is for non-endemic countries. The appropriate indicator for endemic countries is at least 2 non-polio AFP
cases per 100,000 persons < 15 years of age.

8The results of this assessment indicated that at the national level the vaccination coverage among children less than
five years of age was 96%. Coverage at the provincial level ranged from 94% to 99%, with Balochistan showing the
lowest , and Punjab the highest coverage.


                                                           7

performance due to inadequate management and significant changes in health manpower in the
provinces and many of the high risk districts; pockets of refusals; and continued low coverage
with routine immunization in polio free areas. Based on these findings and in order to address
persistent transmission of the polio virus, in March 2008, the Bank team recommended to the
program that the current technical and implementation strategy needed to be reviewed. This is
subsequently being addressed by the program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment: The environmental screening category for the project was C as it was determined
to have no significant negative environmental impact. OPV is supplied in small plastic vials
which are disposed in accordance to the WHO guidelines9.

Social: The safeguard policy regarding projects in disputed areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60) was triggered
as the project credit supported SIAs in AJK, a disputed area between India and Pakistan since
194710.

Financial Management: Based on the financing agreement, IDA funds were directly transferred
to UNICEF, and hence GoP was not involved in the management and accounting of funds.
UNICEF maintained a separate ledger account for credit transactions with the Bank and was
meant to provide updated funds utilization reports detailing purchase orders that were fully
executed and delivered. The current project, like other polio eradication projects, was granted an
exemption from the audit requirement. In Feb-March 2008, the Bank team reported that
UNICEF had abandoned the practice of mentioning the source of funding for each supply on
respective purchase orders. It was recommended that this be maintained; and is being
subsequently done. Submission of quarterly project reports (sources and use of funds) by the
program to the Bank was delayed, as was the case during the first project also. However, this did
not compromise monitoring by the Bank since UNICEF provided regular reports, providing
similar information. In February 2008, the Bank team observed that the Bank financed activities
as part of the overall UNICEF activities were subject to two types of audit. The first was an
institution-wide internal audit, and the second, an external audit of annual financial statements
carried out by a professional firm of accountants. Both these audits were necessary to provide
adequate fiduciary assurance to the stakeholders that the funds were utilized for the purposes
intended. UNICEF confirmed that none of these audit reports contained any audit observation
with respect to the procurement done utilizing Bank funds.

Procurement: UNICEF was contracted by GoP on a single source basis for procurement of
OPV; which was done using UNICEF's own procedures. UNICEF procured and made available
509, 000,000 doses of OPV (both mono and tri-valent vaccines) utilizing US$ 67.84 million of
IDA funds from both the original and supplementary credits until end June 2008. The amount of
vaccines procured and delivered by UNICEF to EPI tally with vaccine amounts in EPI records.



9Incineration of used vials and burial of residual waste. SIAs (with WHO oversight) ensure that every used OPV
vial (matched with no. of OPV doses administered) is accounted for at the EPI center after returning from the field.
Subsequently, the used vials are subjected to the standard agreed treatment.
10By supporting the project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on
the disputed areas


                                                          8

There were no procurement related issues except not meeting the original OPV supply indicator,
the reasons for which are described in Sections 1.3.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Since polio virus transmission persists in Pakistan, GoP would need to continue to implement
SIAs. The Global PEI is currently reviewing the situation and debating the optimal strategy to
be implemented. The EPI program has prepared a three year (2008-2010) program strategy and
financing plan, which envisages the country needing about US$ 193 million. This includes the
cost of SIA operations, surveillance, OPV procurement, and technical assistance. The Ministry
of Health, GoP, has requested the Bank in March 2008 (with a formal request on August 15,
2008) to explore options for a follow-on project using the IDA buy-down mechanism for
procurement of OPV. A proposed next operation with about US$ 70 million for IDA buy-down
is likely to be appraised in December 2008.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory

Polio eradication continues to remain a priority for the global community, and though significant
strides have been made towards achieving this goal, the challenge remains. Pakistan is one of
the four endemic countries for polio. The project objective remains highly relevant as the project
supported the polio elimination program of the country by agreeing to finance the critical gap of
OPV procurement. The Pakistan CAS of April 2006 and the Government's PRSP and Medium
Term Development Framework 2005-10 all highlight the importance of preventive care for
communicable diseases, including immunization, and maternal and child health, especially for
the poor. Global polio eradication will become a reality only when every endemic country
eliminates the disease and virus transmission is interrupted. Till such time, the requirement for
OPV and immunization needs will persist.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Since 1994, when Pakistan started its polio elimination efforts, there has been a significant
reduction in the number of polio cases. Although, during the project period, the number of cases
reported has been increasing, there is epidemiological evidence that the program had managed to
geographically restrict virus transmission: the number of districts reporting cases has reduced
from 22 in 2006, 18 in 2007 to 16 in 2008 (January to June, 2008). Subsequently, the latter half
of 2008 is seeing an increasing number of cases11. Currently there are 3 main transmission
zones: Central NWFP (reporting 24 cases), Karachi towns (reporting 4 cases) and Central
Pakistan (corridor extending from southern Punjab, Northern Sindh to North West Balochistan ­
reporting 12 cases). The remaining 41 cases have been reported from non transmission zones,
but most of them can be linked to virus spread from the transmission zones. Federally



1181( 59 P1, 22 P3) cases till October 15, 2008 ­ Punjab (22 P1; 0 P3), Sindh (16 P1, 0 P3), NWFP (9 P1, 15 P3),
FATA (2 P1, 5 P3), Balochistan (7 P1, 0P3), Islamabad (3 P1, 2 P3)


                                                         9

Administered Northern Area (FANA) and AJK continue to remain polio free since 1998 and
2000 respectively. Islamabad, which was polio free since 2003, had reported two cases in the
first six months of June 2008. Thus, despite regular implementation of good quality SIAs, high
(97%) coverage of the target population, and a well-functioning surveillance system, the project
indicator of zero reported cases of polio cases was not met during the project period, and a
further concern is the increasing numbers of reported cases during the last few months (after
project completion). Recent (mid-2008) TAG meetings specially convened to review the polio
situation in Sindh and NWFP concluded that the upsurge in cases was due to a confluence of
factors which included: (i) persistent transmission of wild polioviruses in key reservoir areas; (ii)
deterioration of security in the key reservoirs of NWFP and FATA resulting in a decrease in
campaign quality and intensification of transmission in that area; (ii) large-scale population
movements from security-compromised reservoir areas (e.g. NWFP & FATA) into previously
polio-free areas; (iii) increase in population susceptibility in polio-free areas due to the recent
reduction in the number of polio campaigns and the deterioration of an already weak routine
immunization service delivery system in 2008 (due to vaccine stock outs among other factors);
and (iv) suboptimal impact of monovalent OPV largely as the result of insufficient coverage in
reservoir areas thereby allowing transmission of each serotype to persist and eventually spread.

The project achieved its second key indicator: SIA coverage in the targeted population (under-
five children) in each of the four provinces during 2006, 2007 and until June 30, 2008 (Target
85%) (Annex 2)

The project contributed to the successful implementation of a total of 18 NIDs/SNIDs (Annex 2,
Table 1) during the project period by financing 509million doses of OPV. Each round
immunized about 30 million children in the target age group.

As described in Section 1.3, the original indicator of timely arrival of the OPV at the central
stores at least five weeks before each of the SIAs was revised in May 2007 to: "timely arrival of
OPV at the District stores five days before each SIA". This indicator was not fully met. From
January 2006 ­ June 13, 2007 (measured against original indicator): none of the eight SIAs for
2006, and only 20% of the June 2007 SIAs met the target. During this period 69% of the total
IDA Credit (US$47.92 of US$69.24) was utilized.

From June 14, 2007 ­ June 30, 2008 (measured against the revised indicator): 89.5% of 4 SIAs
for 2007; and 80% of one SIA for 2008 met the target. During this period remainder of the 31%
of IDA Credit was utilized.

All districts received OPV three-four days prior to each SIA. The WHO Performance Audit
(August 2008) carried out a detailed analysis of vaccine arrival, logistics of distribution
throughout the country for use in the SIAs. The audit concluded that despite a variable system of
distribution for each province, it was highly commendable that so far no SIA12 was delayed,
postponed or re-scheduled due to late arrival of vaccine at the district level for distribution to the
team of vaccinators. This, according to the WHO Performance Audit, is an indication of the
remarkable capacity that has been developed at the provincial level and below. The WHO audit


12Since 1994, when NIDs were held for the first time, until August 2008, 83 SIAs have been held in Pakistan


                                                       10

also noted that facilities for storage of vaccine at minus 20 degrees Centigrade were available
only at the central and provincial stores, and divisional stores at Sindh. Therefore to maintain the
integrity of the cold chain it was desirable that the vaccine arrived in the districts only about 2-3
days before the SIA. The audit recommended that the indicator dealing with timely arrival of
vaccine at the district level should be arrival 3-5 days before the SIA instead of five days,
measured in one third of randomly selected districts.

3.3 Efficiency
The project objective supported elimination of poliomyelitis from Pakistan. Elimination of polio
from the remaining four endemic countries, including Pakistan, is facing challenges with an
increasing number of reported cases. Currently there is an ongoing debate regarding eradication
versus effective control of poliomyelitis. Worldwide eradication of wild polioviruses is likely to
yield substantial health and financial benefits. International research13suggests that the intensity
of immunization (and concomitant increased costs) must be increased to achieve eradication, and
that even small decreases in intensity could lead to large outbreaks. It has also been demonstrated
that any circulation of wild polio virus will lead to outbreaks, even at a time when global
population immunity is at its highest. In 2002-03, GPEI scaled back its immunization campaigns
because of limited financial resources. Political challenges to vaccination in northern Nigeria
and coverage gaps in India led to large outbreaks. These conditions led to exportation and a
resurgence of wild polio virus cases in countries previously free of viral transmission and
necessitated additional expenses exceeding $ 400 million during 2004-06 to again stop virus
circulation in those countries.

Therefore, one school of thought is that a wavering commitment to eradication would lead to a
much larger number of cases and greater cumulative costs. On the other hand, the merit of
strengthening routine immunization and its impact on polio elimination in the endemic countries
is also being advocated. At the time of writing this report, the global discussion continues.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The development objective of the project was clearly defined and highly relevant to the
continuing global goal of polio eradication. The project enabled (by financing the requisite
doses of mono and trivalent OPV) the national program to plan and implement supplementary
immunization activities, recommended by technical experts as the methodology for interrupting
polio virus transmission in endemic countries. This component of the project was strongly
supported by the high quality training, communication, monitoring and surveillance activities,
which are an integral part of Pakistan's PEI, and supported by WHO/UNICEF. Although, even
the revised target of vaccine supply within the stipulated time prior to the SIAs was not met, no
SIA was postponed and there was no shortage of OPV during the SIAs. Despite these efforts, an
increasing number of polio cases have been reported, resulting in the global community debating
the feasibility of polio eradication. Towards the close of the project (April-June 2008) the project
supported the following: (i) a detailed review of reasons for delayed arrival of OPV; and (ii) a
revised technical and implementation strategy to address the persisting transmission of the virus



13Eradication versus control of poliomyelitis: an economic analysis, K.M.Thompson, R.J. Duintjer Tebbens, 2007


                                                       11

in Pakistan. Based on the monitoring and surveillance data that was available, these reviews
could have been done earlier, to substantially influence the 2008-10 program strategy.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As noted in Section 1.4, SIAs targeted poor, remote and underprivileged communities whose
immunization coverage tends to be lowest; and vulnerability to polio, the highest due to
unsanitary and crowded living conditions. The social mobilization and communication strategy
maintained the awareness and knowledge among the population through mass media and
intensified inter-personal communication in high risk districts through District Social
Mobilization Teams. However, recent reviews indicate that there continue to be pockets of
refusal to accept the vaccine, and more work will need to be done to make them beneficiaries of
the program. SIAs worked with the Lady Health Workers (the community outreach workers),
teachers and other local functionaries, and emphasized inclusion of women in the vaccination
teams, in order to address the stringent norms of seclusion and restriction of female mobility in
parts of the country.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The PEI, and more specifically the SIAs, demanded an elaborate system of organizing large scale
campaigns, and the program effectively responded to the same. Each NID round involved
organizing about 80,000 teams, including 70,000 mobile teams, 9,000 fixed teams and 4,600
transit teams to cover about 30 million eligible children across the country. In addition, each
campaign was supervised and monitored by about 800 campaign support persons, 15,000 area in-
charges and 2,700 zonal supervisors. Over the years, the national program staff at various levels,
including those working in vaccine stores, have acquired much experience and valuable skills in
ensuring that the vaccine reaches the districts in time for the scheduled SIA.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
While about 15 days prior to each SIA, all program and non-program health functionaries at all
levels are focused on the micro-planning, it is debatable and variable whether the SIAs
negatively impacted routine immunization. During the time of the first and the current polio
projects, the proportion of fully immunized children in Pakistan increased from 53% to 76%. It
was reported that in provinces/districts with good management capacities, the SIAs, including
the communication activities, were actually used to enhance the effectiveness of routine
immunization. On the other hand, for those with low capacity, the SIAs tended to compromise
routine activities. Coverage of routine immunization, particularly in high risk districts, has been
reported to be of concern, and the revised implementation strategy of the program is planning to
pay particular emphasis to this.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes) Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant




                                                     12

Pakistan continues to face the challenge of persisting and increasing polio virus transmission,
although the government is committed to polio elimination and is fine-tuning its technical and
implementation strategy in order to address the identified weaknesses. The key
constraints/challenges to elimination in Pakistan have been described in earlier sections. EPI has
prepared a plan for 2008-10 and projected the financial requirements for the same. The program
would, through different strategies, specifically focus on the difficult to reach areas/populations,
the changing epidemiology of the disease, and the volatile and unpredictable security situation.
Social mobilization and community involvement has played an important role in the success of
the program to date, and would have to be further strengthened to ensure full coverage and
acceptance by certain groups. The institutional arrangements for program management are well
established and sustainable. However, polio elimination in Pakistan will continue to be
challenging, both in terms of mobilizing adequate resources and responding to the changing
epidemiology. This is indicated by the upsurge of polio cases during 2008.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

This project was a follow-on project to the first Partnership for Polio Eradication Project, and
was prepared while that project was being implemented, thereby ensuring no interruption to the
planned immunization activities. The Bank responded to the projected need by GoP for
continued financing for OPV for use in supplemental immunization activities during 2006-07.
Since the financing mechanism of IDA buy-down seemed to be working well for the first project,
and in Nigeria, it was agreed to adopt the same mechanism, with its clear advantages.
Procurement arrangements, with UNICEF as the sole procurement agent, also remained the same
as the first project. The project was appraised between October 18 ­ November 02, 2005 while
ensuring that it did not disturb the ongoing earthquake relief operations. Despite sound
preparation, the team however failed to adequately recognize the inappropriateness of the
performance indicator of arrival of the vaccine at the central store five weeks prior to each SIA,
which was used for the first project. The ICR for the first project and the WHO Performance
Audit both highlighted this issue. However, these reports were not available at the time of project
appraisal. As a result of this, the same indicator was also retained for this project and was revised
only in the second year of its implementation. The issue of the project supporting routine
immunization was discussed during preparation. It was determined that routine immunization
was being supported by GAVI, WHO and UNICEF, and this was considered adequate.
Therefore, the project did not support routine immunization.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Two formal supervision missions were carried out during the two and a half years life of the
project. These missions included participation of fiduciary specialists. The mandated six-
monthly supervision missions by the Bank were not deemed necessary by the task team as the
project was reasonably simple, and the task team, including the team leader, was based in


                                                  13

Islamabad; thereby saving on the much sought after supervision resources. Being in the field
facilitated interaction and follow-up, by the team leader with client counterparts, on a routine
basis. In addition, the team worked closely with counterparts - UNICEF (particularly focus on
vaccine arrival and quarterly submission of project progress reports) and participation in SIAs
(interaction with WHO/UNICEF teams; and was a member of the IACC). The IACC met every
3-6 months (more often, if required, as has been the case during 2008) and discussed policy and
technical issues to provide guidance to the program. VARs, which record the quality of vaccine
at arrival, were monitored by the task team. The first supervision mission, conducted about 11
months after project effectiveness, highlighted the challenge of the SIAs not being able to reach
certain high risk groups ­ nomadic migrant populations, minorities and infants. Subsequently,
plans were prepared and implemented by the program to address the same. The project did not
have a formal mid-term review. The second supervision mission was conducted about four
months prior to project closure on June 30, 2008. This mission highlighted several critical issues
and recommended follow-up measures - plan to deal with the large-scale migration and its
impact on polio transmission/resurgence, access to security compromised areas, and focused
communication strategy. These are now being incorporated into the government's project
implementation plan for a proposed third follow-on project. It is likely that more frequent
supervision missions could have highlighted the critical issues earlier.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance was moderately satisfactory. The Bank responded promptly to the
request of GoP for a second project, which became effective prior to closing of the first project,
thereby ensuring no financing gap for OPV. The project design remained simple with a decision
to continue using the IDA buy-down mechanism. However, this simplicity may have
compromised the Bank's leverage to provide inputs to the other two components of the PEI.
Supervision of the project did not depend entirely on formal supervision missions, rather on
routine follow-up with the program and technical partners. The indicator measuring vaccine
arrival could have been revised earlier (soon after the ICR for the first project and WHO
performance audits were available). Also, the important ground reality of appropriate vaccine
storage facilities not being available at the district level (as analyzed by the recent WHO
performance audit) could potentially have been identified much earlier in collaboration with the
program. This weakness resulted in the project using an inappropriate indicator for half the
project period, though it did not adversely affect project outcomes. Additionally, there was no
social development specialist on the task team during supervision, who could have worked with
the program, to address the critical issue of access to difficult to reach population groups.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government commitment at the highest level for polio elimination from the country is evident in
the successful collaboration with donor partners for both the first and second projects. The
commitment continues with the 2008-10 EPI plan towards polio elimination. Organizing SIAs
across the country is an elaborate process requiring the support and engagement of not only
health sector personnel, but several allied departments and donor partners at the provincial and


                                                   14

district levels. Financing for human resources and recurrent costs, primarily from government
sources, was estimated to be a substantial part of program costs. Government, political and
religious functionaries have played a significant role in creating public awareness of the
necessity of polio immunization and supporting the program to try and reach the more remote
and difficult areas/populations. However, greater insight into the reasons for underperformance
in some geographical areas has recently been determined to be due to frequent changes of key
health personnel resulting in an inadequate understanding and commitment to the program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The EPI program management which is responsible for implementation of the PEI has been able
to successfully plan and execute all planned SIA activities during the project period. This is
reflected by the fact that all 18 SIAs during project period were carried out as planned, with
about 97% coverage of the target population, with availability of adequate OPV at all
vaccination sites. Despite this, challenges remain with a persisting viral transmission. A
reflection of the continued commitment to polio elimination and a revised implementation
strategy was the subject of a technical consultation14 held in Karachi at the request of GoP on
June 24-25, 2008. This consultation highlighted both the achievements and challenges
individually for the four provinces, thereby the future need for a more province-specific strategy
for EPI. In June 2008, the TAG reported that the rapid institutionalization of the
recommendation of campaign evaluation through independent monitoring of finger marking had
been impressive and yielded positive results.

The program could have more pro-actively highlighted to the Bank task team the ambitious
nature of the performance indicator related to vaccine arrival in the country, including the
inadequate vaccine storage facilities at district levels, which could potentially jeopardize the cold
chain. There was also a weakness in regular reporting since the quarterly progress reports meant
to be submitted to the Bank were delayed. In addition, the reported increase in population
susceptibility in the polio-free area, which according to the experts has been due to a reduction in
the number of polio campaigns in those areas, and the deterioration of an already weak routine
immunization service delivery system in 2008 (due to vaccine stock outs among other factors), is
an indication of program management weakness.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. GoP remains fully committed to
polio elimination, and the EPI has successfully implemented all planned SIAs, with timely
supply of vaccines to the vaccinators, sound post-campaign assessments of coverage and quality,




14The consultation included senior officials of health from the federal and provincial levels, nine members of the
TAG, experts from WHO, UNICEF, World Bank, DFID, Rotary International and Japan International Cooperation
Agency




                                                          15

and a well performing surveillance system. The remaining challenge is to collect, analyze, and
respond to disaggregated data for districts to be able to focus on the high risk areas/population
groups, and measure effectiveness of specific strategies designed to target these groups.

6. Lessons Learned
Important lessons have been learned from implementation of this project:

   Simple design: The project had a simple design, procurement by UNICEF, and a
   straightforward objective of supporting one component of a larger effectively functioning
   national program. With a relatively simple project design and objectives, it was easier to
   measure success. This principle could be applied to projects across sectors and countries;
   however it does need to be acknowledged that development issues often do not have simple
   solutions, and hence the complexity of many Bank projects. Also, the simple design could
   have compromised the Bank's role to have an effective dialogue for the entire EPI.

   IDA buy-down mechanism: The project successfully used the innovative IDA-buy down
   financing mechanism, which had been used for the first project and a similar project in
   Nigeria. Based on the Pakistan and Nigeria experience, the World Bank HNP Anchor is
   expanding the pilot program for using the buy-down financing mechanism. Potential health
   sector projects under preparation would be selected based on three minimum eligibility
   criteria: significant cross-border externalities, measurable outcomes, and meet standard Bank
   appraisal requirements. Currently, Botswana and Swaziland (middle-income countries) are
   exploring buy-downs for HIV-AIDS prevention projects supported by IBRD loans.

   Utilizing existing program management: The project was entirely implemented by the
   existing EPI management unit and hence sustainable after project completion.

   Awareness and ability to respond to changing environment: At project appraisal, the program
   was expecting that Pakistan would eradicate polio by the end of that year. This however did
   not happen, and polio transmission continues to pose a challenge. This is partly due to the
   complex viral epidemiology and emerging security concerns resulting in inaccessibility to
   certain geographical areas. However, it has been acknowledged that it is also due to weak
   implementation at the provincial/district levels in certain cases. For the next few years, the
   remaining polio endemic countries will need to be continuously responsive to the changing
   environment.

   Realistic indicators and close monitoring: Ensuring realistic indictors to measure project
   success is important. The OPV supply indicator as developed was ambitious, and when
   developed did not take into account the global OPV demand-supply situation. At the same
   time, an early recognition of the inappropriateness of an indicator and revising/changing it
   can be critical to project success.

   Polio eradication versus effective control and routine immunization: Any future Bank
   support for polio elimination from Pakistan and the other endemic countries would need to
   reach consensus on the ongoing global debate of the seemingly difficult challenge of polio
   eradication. At the same time, the merits of routine immunization strengthening (and the



                                                 16

    striking the right balance with polio immunization campaigns) would need to be addressed as
    a priority. Future Bank projects may also need to assess whether the simple provision of
    OPV for SIAs is sufficient, or supporting other elements of the program may provide greater
    leverage for effective policy dialogue and program implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies ­ Borrower has reviewed the ICR with no additional comments.
Borrower's ICR inputs in Annex 7.

(b) Co financiers; - No comments received.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)- No comments received.
Inputs from WHO and UNICEF in Annex 8.




                                                17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                     Actual/Latest
             Components                   Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
                                            (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                        millions)               Appraisal

Procurement and supply of Oral
Polio Vaccine and its effective use              46.70                      67.84*                145%


                 Total Baseline Cost               0.00                     67.84

Physical Contingencies                             0.00                      0.00                  0.00

Price Contingencies                                0.00                      0.00                  0.00
                  Total Project Costs              0.00                     67.84
Front-end fee PUFF                                 0.00                      0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee BIRD                                 0.00                      0.00                  0.00
         Total Financing Required                46.70                      67.84                 145%



(b) Financing15
                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
             Source of Funds                    Estimate         Estimate        Percentage of

                                             (USD millions)(USD millions)         Appraisal

Borrower                                     1.90            1.90               100%
International Development Association
(IDA)                                        46.70           67.84*             145%


Agency (JICA)
JAPAN: Japan International Cooperation 12.80                 12.80              100%


* includes additional IDA credit




15Financing for the entire program ­ Total USD 100.40 million at appraisal included (in USD million): Borrower
1.90, IDA 46.70; JICA 12.80; UNICEF 7.30 and WHO 31.70




                                                      18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


SIA coverage during project period from different sources of data collection


Table 1: Reported SIA coverage by province

               NIDs       SNIDs        Punjab      NWFP/FATA       Sindh     Baluchistan
  2006          6           2          100.50%         98.13%     108.74%     100.50%
  2007          4           5          99.34%          96.54%     114.27%      90.70%
  2008          1            -         99.44%          91.35%     113.57%      93.52%




Table 2: Post campaign coverage of target groups by province

           Province                           2006                        2008*
            Punjab                             98                          99%
         NWFP/FATA                           96.125                        97%
             Sindh                           96.625                        95%
          Baluchistan                        95.875                        94%
*Independent survey Jan 2008




                                              19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Cost benefit analysis does not easily apply to disease eradication, especially disease elimination
at the country level. Net present value/economic rate of return were not estimated at project
appraisal, or for this report, since the benefit is largely a global public good.


Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                                 Title                    Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Inaam Haq                        Senior Health Specialist              SASHD      Task Team Leader
Amie E. Batson                   Senior Health Specialist              SASHD
Anwar Ali Bhatti                 Financial Analyst                     SACPK
Asif Ali                         Senior Procurement Specialist         SCARPS
Furqan Ahmad Saleem              Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
Amna W. Mir                      Program Assistant                     SASHD
Supervision
Inaam Haq                        Senior Health Specialist                SASHD Task Team Leader
Asif Ali                         Senior Procurement Specialist          SCARPS
Amie E. Batson                   Senior Health Specialist                HDNHE
Anwar Ali Bhatti                 Financial Analyst                       SACPK
Shahnaz Kazi                     Senior Economist                        SASHD
Nasreen Shah Kazmi               Team Assistant                          SASHD
Amna W. Mir                      Program Assistant                       SASHD
Furqan Ahmad Saleem              Financial Management Specialist         SARFM

Hasan Saqib                      Senior Financial Management
                                 Specialist                              SARFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                              No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY06                                               10                             23.48
   FY07                                                                               0.00
   FY08                                                                               0.00
                                 Total:               10                             23.48
Supervision/ICR
   FY06                                                1                              1.14
   FY07                                                6                              8.87
   FY08                                               10                             20.91
   FY09                                                1                              0.00
                                 Total:               18                             30.92


                                                    20

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) Not Applicable




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) Not Applicable




                                          21

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

                                       Federal EPI Cell
                                  National Institute of Health
                                           Islamabad
                                              *****

                 Pakistan: Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
                           (P097402 ­ Credit # 4145 and 4145-1-PAK)

                              Implementation Completion Report

Introduction and Back ground

Pakistan Polio Eradication Initiative had been a major national effort since 1994, and has been
supported by several donors. WHO and UNICEF are the lead technical partners for polio
eradication globally and in Pakistan. Through them, the donors are providing grant funds for the
operations, surveillance and vaccine costs. During 2003-05 the World Bank in collaboration with
other partners including Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation UN Foundation, CDC and Rotary
International financed the polio eradication program for procurement of OPV to bridge the
funding gap using an innovation financing mechanism of IDA Buy-down project with an
assistance of US$ 42.69 million (ref IDA credit # 3167 and 3167-1) for procurement of oral
polio vaccine (OPV). After successful completion of project and third party performance
assessment IDA buy down was triggered and the credit amount was converted to `Grant' for the
Government of Pakistan.

Persistent virus circulation in Pak-Afghan block compelled Global Polio Eradication Technical
Advisory Committee to further intensify supplementary immunization activities for next two
years. This required an estimated quantity of 461.28 million doses for 2006-07 with an estimated
cost of US$61.4 million.

The Bank was approached for continuation of IDA Buy down assistance to address the financial
gap of approximately US$46.7 million. The project (P097402) was approved on 22 December
2005. The allocated funds were utilized by early 2007 and on the request of GoP an additional
financing for the Project amounting US$21.14 million was approved on May 10, 2007 for the
rest of 2007 and early 2008.

Project information

Following is the selected data pertaining to Second Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication
Project:

                                  P097402 (original)        ID P104900 (supplementary)
Board Approval ( Original)        January 26, 2006          May 10, 2007
Effectiveness date (Original)     March 08, 2006            June 14, 2007
Closing date                      June 30, 2008             June 30, 2008



                                               22

Original Credit Amount            US$ 46.700 million           US$ 21.140 million
TOTAL (a+b)                                           US$ 67.840 million
Amount disbursed                                      US$ 67.840 million

Key Performance Indicators

The following two indicators and their means of verification were agreed to be used to measure
project performance:

                           Indicator                               Means of verification
1      Timely arrival of OPV at the district stores 5 days WHO monitoring reports
       before each SIA (ID P104900)

2      SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining Cluster            Sampling      Survey
       endemic provinces during financing period.              according to WHO approved
                                                               Methodology.

Achievement of Development Objectives

The project purpose was to assist GoP in eradicating poliomyelitis. The objective was to finance
and provide oral polio vaccine (OPV), needed during 2006-08 and monitors its effective use in
the country's Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs). Pakistan has made significant
efforts towards polio eradication. As a result, the numbers of confirmed polio cases decreased
substantially from 104 in 2003 to only 32 in 2007 (an overall reduction of 69%). The number of
confirmed polio cases decreased substantially in all the provinces during project implementation
period. Although localized virus transmission persists in most of the provinces while no case
reported from AJK and FANA since 2000. Technical advisory group reviewed the current
situation and quite confident that Pakistan is likely to interrupt transmission of wild polio virus if
all the recommendations are fully implemented.

The project implementation was completed by the end of 1st quarter of 2008 with full
disbursement and utilization of original and supplementary credit. The Project financed
approximately 85% of OPV for polio eradication during 2006-2007 and first quarter of 2008
through the original and additional credit. On the request of the Government of Pakistan, the
Bank is considering, "Polio Eradication 3rd Project through IDA Buy Down" to finance the
procurement of additional OPV required during 2009-2011

During the project period 11 NIDs and 7 SNIDs (4 case responses/mop ups) were undertaken,
administering about 590 million doses of OPV to the target children. The project through
procurement and distribution of OPV through UNICEF contributed significantly to ensuring
timely availability of vaccine for each round. Pakistan has successfully met the challenge of
preparing, implementing, and evaluating multiple, nationwide immunization rounds while
maintaining and improving quality of SIA with an average coverage of more than 95% during
the project period. SIA monitoring has provided quick feedback to identify low-performing areas
and rectify problems during the round under implementation or for more effective planning of
the next round.



                                                 23

AFP surveillance has remained sensitive and has improved overall in Pakistan. Surveillance
quality is measured by two primary indicators: 1) the non polio AFP rate (at least one non polio
AFP case per 100,000 persons aged <15 years) and 2) the completeness and timeliness of stool-
specimen collection (at least 80% of AFP cases with two adequate stool specimens collected
from patients within 14 days of paralysis onset). Both indicators were at target values or higher
at the national and provincial levels. Overall AFP surveillance in Pakistan meets or exceeds
WHO performance-indicator targets in most areas and is continuously reviewed to detect quality
gaps and respond to them quickly. The social mobilization and communication strategy continue
to maintain awareness and knowledge among the mass audiences through mass media, including
newspapers, radio and television, and intensified inter personal communication in high risk
districts through use of District Social Mobilization teams.

Assessment of the Key Performance Indicators

OPV Procurement:          UNICEF was disbursed US$ 67,870,000 for procurement of OPV.
UNICEF procured and made available to GOP about 401 million doses of OPV using IDA funds.
Of the total amount disbursed to UNICEF, it is estimated that UNICEF has utilized US $ 67.87
million for supply of OPV. All the vaccine delivered by UNICEF was made available to the
provincial and district offices prior to planned SIAs.

Timely arrival of vaccine at the district stores: The revised target for this indicator was
"timely arrival of OPV at the district stores five days before each of the supplementary
immunization activities (SIAs)" and this indicator would be measured in at least one third of all
districts (to be randomly selected) for each round.

The timing of vaccine arrival in the central stores is a major determinant of the vaccine arriving
in the districts, 5 days before the SIAs. The time of vaccine arrival in Central stores in relation to
the SIAs, during the period January 2006 to January 2008, has been quite variable. The vaccine
(for most SIAs there are 2-3 shipments) arrived from a minimum of 5 days to a maximum of 7
weeks before the SIA for which it was meant to be used. There are a variety of reasons for the
late arrival of vaccine in Pakistan which were not under the control of the GOP.

It was worth noting that even though in the instances where the vaccine arrived in Islamabad less
than two weeks before the start of the campaigns (NIDs of 24-26 Jan 2006, NIDs of 4-6 April
2006, NIDs of 18-20 July 2006, NIDs of 12-14 September 2006, SNIDs of 27-29 March 2007,
SNIDs of 22-24 May 2007 and SNIDs of 11-13 Dec 2007), it was able to reach 100% of the
districts, 3-5 days before the campaign was to begin.

Since 2007, the process of procurement of vaccine and its distribution in the country has become
slightly more complex as more than one type of vaccine was being used in any given SIA and the
frequency of SIAs in the country has increased. NO SIAs was either delayed, postponed or re-
scheduled due to the late arrival of vaccine at the district level for distribution to the teams.

SIAs Coverage: The quality of SIAs is regularly monitored through post campaign monitoring
that some times involves external experts and even by independent firms/institutions to have



                                                 24

unbiased results. An independent assessment was also carried out for January 2008 NIDs using
WHO standard 30 household cluster survey technique. Data was collected by independent
monitors and the services of Health Services Academy were hired for the sampling technique,
compilation, analysis and report writing.

The Independent Post Campaign Coverage Assessment carried out for 24-26th January 2008 used
randomized cluster sampling in 67 districts/towns of the four main provinces of the country. 2/3
of the districts were from the districts in known transmission zones and 1/3 from the non-
transmission zones. The areas for assessment were randomly selected within each district. In
each cluster selected, data was collected from 7 households having at least one child within the
target age group for polio immunization (<5 years of age) through a house-to-house survey using
a standardized checklist. The total number of clusters taken was 2070, with 450 from districts in
Punjab, 720 from districts/towns in Sindh, 540 from districts in NWFP/FATA and 360 from
districts in Balochistan.

The results of this independent assessment showed that at the national level the vaccination
coverage among children less than 5 years of age was 96%.

The following table shows that coverage at the provincial level ranged from 94% to 99%, with
Balochistan showing the lowest coverage and Punjab the highest. The coverage among infants
less than 6 months was 93% ranged from 89% to 97%, with the lowest coverage from Sindh
province followed by Balochistan (93%).

     Table showing National & provincial coverage of children assessed for January 08 NIDs

                Total number of   Total number of               Total number of
                                                                                 <6 months
     Provinces  children <5 years children <5 years Percentages   <6 months                  Percentages
                                                                                 vaccinated
                    checked          vaccinated                    checked

  Punjab              6983              6884            99            623           603          97
  Sindh              12436             11774            95           1156          1028          89
  NWFP/FATA          11232             10878            97           1333          1267          95
  Balochistan         7995              7554            94            844           782          93
  Total              38646             37090            96           3965          3680          93

REPORT OF WHO/EMRO MISSION FOR CARRYING OUT A PERFORMANCE AUDIT
OF THE SECOND PAKISTAN PARTNERSHIP FOR POLIO ERADICATION PROJECT;
IDA BUY DOWN

The performance audit of this project conducted by WHO/EMRO mission (17 - 28 August 2008)
speaks that the coverage data for the SIAs conducted during the project period showed the
coverage at the provincial level was above the target set for this indicator (85%) and the Mission
was highly impressed by the mechanisms put in place by the Government of Pakistan at the
federal level and by the provincial health departments at the provincial level to ensure that the
vaccine reached the districts in time for distribution for the SIAs. No SIAs was either delayed,
postponed or re-scheduled due to the late arrival of vaccine at the district level for distribution to
the team of vaccinators even when the vaccine had arrived in Islamabad less than 2 weeks before
the campaign.




                                                         25

The report concludes with the remarks, "The Performance Audit of the Second Pakistan,
Partnership of Polio Eradication Project has shown that the targets set in the Project Appraisal
Document between the Government of Pakistan and World Bank/IDA have been achieved".

The assistance and support of the World Bank mission in Pakistan for facilitation and
coordination between UNICEF and Ministry of Health in resolving financial disbursements and
procurement related issues was extremely helpful in successful implementation of project.

Lessons Learnt.

Procurement and supply of additional OPV through this mechanism has assisted in getting close
to our objectives. The project has benefited all children of Pakistan below the age of 5 years.
This highly effective and efficient source of funding would help Pakistan achieve polio
eradication thereby freeing its resources for other sectoral priorities.

The two indicators attached to the evaluation of the project have been successfully achieved. The
urgency to meet the two IDA Buy down indicators has kept other components of the whole polio
eradication system on the go.

The program strongly supports the observation of the WHO mission that considering varied
geopolitical situation in the country the process indicator should be rephrased as arrival of
vaccine at the districts from 3-5 days before the campaign rather than 5 days before the campaign.




                                                 26

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

    (A) WHO.


                              Implementation Completion Report

Introduction and Back ground

Pakistan has made tremendous progress in polio eradication since the launch of the program in
1994, the number of cases declined from more than 1000 a year to only 28 in 2005.
Unfortunately, because of some operational issues and security problems the progress halted in
the last three years and Pakistan remains one of only 4 remaining polio endemic countries.
However, there is reduction in the biodiversity of polio viruses circulating in the country. The
emergency consultation meeting held in Karachi in June, 2008 concluded that Pakistan is in a
strong position to eradicate polio if the planned activities implemented correctly.

The First Partnership approved in 2003 and covered the vaccine procurement for the period
2003-2005. The original project financing was for US $ 20 million. However, in view of the
persistent low intensity transmission, intensification of the SIAs was recommended by the
Technical Advisory Group. This required supplementary financing of US $ 21.51 million
bringing the total financing for the project to US $ 41.51. The whole amount was written off as
the performance audit done by WHO showed satisfactory performance.

The Second Partnership approved in January 2006 and covered the vaccine required for January
2006- December 2007. US $ 46.7 million provided to the GoP through IDA Buy-Down in
partnership with Bill & Melinda Gate Foundation. Supplementary IDA approved in June 2007
through which and additional US $21.14 provided to the GoP in partnership with CDC and UN
Foundation.

Measuring the performance:

The performance is measured against only two objectively measurable indicators these are:
                           Indicator                              Means of verification
1     Timely arrival of OPV at the district stores 5 days WHO monitoring reports
      before each SIA (ID P104900)

2     SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining Cluster            Sampling     Survey
      endemic provinces during financing period.              according to WHO approved
                                                              Methodology.

Achievement of Development Objectives

The project purpose was to assist GOP in eradicating poliomyelitis. The objective was to finance
and provide oral polio vaccine (OPV), needed during 2006-07 and monitor its effective use in the
country's Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs).



                                                 27

The project completely met the set objective of making oral polio vaccine available for all
supplementary immunization activities during the project implementation period.

The project implementation was completed by the end of 1st quarter of 2008 with full
disbursement and utilization of original and supplementary credit. The Project financed
approximately 85% of OPV for polio eradication during 2006-2007 through the original and
additional credit.

During the project period 11 rounds of National Immunization Days (NIDs), 5 sub national
immunization days (SNIDs) and 4 case responses/mop ups were undertaken, administering about
550 million doses of OPV to the target children. The project through procurement and
distribution of OPV through UNICEF contributed significantly to ensuring timely availability of
vaccine for each round.

Pakistan has successfully met the challenge of preparing, implementing, and evaluating multiple,
nationwide immunization rounds while maintaining and improving quality of SIA with an
average coverage of more than 95% during the project period. WHO and UNICEF jointly
supported GOP to implement the project through:

    1.      Forecasting the type and quantity of vaccine required
    2.      Collection of OPV utilization report from the provinces.
    3.      Support the government in submission of quarterly OPV arrival and utilization report
            to the WB
    4.      Monitoring and evaluation of the program activities and submission of
            recommendations to the Government stakeholders
    5.      Hiring of independent consultants for assessment of the project implementation
            against the agreed indicators.

Monitoring and Evaluation of the campaign activities plays a vital role in successful
implementation. WHO, UNICEF and other partners extend financial assistance for hiring
services of the qualified, skilled, experienced and committed professionals, who facilitate the
District Health Management Teams for smooth implementation of campaigns to achieve the set
targets. This activity has provided quick feedback to identify low-performing areas and rectify
problems during the round under implementation or for more effective planning of the next
round.

AFP surveillance has remained sensitive and has improved overall in Pakistan. Surveillance
Officers hired by WHO work in close collaboration with the District Surveillance Coordinators
and District Superintendents Vaccination to achieve the set targets and improve the Surveillance
quality which is measured by two primary indicators: 1) the non polio AFP rate (at least one non
polio AFP case per 100,000 persons aged <15 years) and 2) the completeness and timeliness of
stool-specimen collection (at least 80% of AFP cases with two adequate stool specimens
collected from patients within 14 days of paralysis onset). Both indicators were at target values
or higher at the national and provincial levels. Overall AFP surveillance in Pakistan meets or
exceeds WHO performance-indicator targets in most areas and is continuously reviewed to
detect quality gaps and respond to them quickly. The social mobilization and communication



                                               28

strategy continue to maintain awareness and knowledge among the mass audiences through mass
media, including newspapers, radio and television, and intensified inter personal communication
in high risk districts through use of District Social Mobilization teams.

Assessment of the Key Performance Indicators

WHO carried out and independent performance audit of the second Pakistan partnership for
polio eradication project: IDA Buy Down for the period 17 -28 August which concluded that that
the project met all the objective by timely providing the required amount of OPV for
supplementary immunization activities.

SIA Coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining endemic provinces in the financing
period:
The mission examined various sets of coverage data for the SIAs conducted during the project
period which showed that the coverage at the provincial level was above the target set for this
indicator (85%).

Timely Arrival of OPV at the district store 5 days before each SIA:

Regarding the second indicator, the Mission concluded that despite the occasions in which this
indicator could not have been met this indicator was also achieved because no single planned
activity postponed or cancelled due to late arrival of the vaccine and it was suggested that this
indicator needs be revisited and vaccine arrival 3-5 days before the campaign should be used
rather than at least 5 days.

The key reasons behind successful implementation of the project are:
    1. Simple design and objectively verifiable monitoring indicators. The project is dealing
        with only one component of polio eradication initiative which is vaccine procurement.
        The two indicators developed to monitor the performance are very SMART. There was
        no need to develop specific data collection instrument to report on the two indicators
        because the required data are routinely generated by the program.
    2. Using UNICEF system for vaccine procurement
    3. Presence of well structured polio eradication management system at the federal and
        peripheral level with inbuilt monitoring mechanism
    4. Strong partnership

Lessons learnt:
    1. The program should be more flexible in estimating the vaccine requirement taking into
        consideration the rapidly changing economical and political situation of the country. A
        large stockpile should be considered to avoid as much as possible the need for
        supplementary projects.
    2. Ensuring fast cold chain system is very necessary to maintain the vaccine efficacy in the
        presence of an average 6 hour a day load shedding. So regarding a minimum of 5 days as
        a cut off point for timely arrival of vaccine at district level may be too long and should be
        reduced to 3 days.




                                                  29

   (B) UNICEF.

                  Pakistan Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
                                  (ID P097402 & IDP104900)

                             Implementation Completion Report

In order to maintain the pace of successful implementation of Polio Eradication Project, the
Ministry of Health, Government of Pakistan approached the Bank for financial assistance under
the World Bank IDA Buy-Down Project to meet the shortfall of Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV) for
supplementary Immunization Activities in 2003 (First Partnership).

After successful completion of First Partnership, the Second Partnership was approved in
January 2006 and covered the vaccine required for January 2006- December 2007. US $ 46.7
million provided to the GoP through IDA Buy-Down in partnership with Bill & Melinda Gate
Foundation. Supplementary IDA approved in June 2007 through which and additional US $21.14
provided to the GoP in partnership with CDC and UN Foundation.

The following two performance indicators were agreed and were monitored during the course of
partnership:

                            Indicator                             Means of verification

 1    Timely arrival of OPV at the district stores 5 days
      before each SIA (ID P104900)                            WHO monitoring reports

      SIA coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining Cluster              Sampling    Survey
 2    endemic provinces during financing period.              according to WHO approved
                                                              Methodology.

The objective of the project was to finance and ensure availability of OPV, needed during 2006-
07 and monitor its effective use in the country's Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs).
UNICEF was mandated to procure and ensure timely availability of vaccine in the country.

Despite short notices by the program for changes in type of OPV and / or increase in quantity,
UNICEF Supply Division made all the efforts and successfully met the deadlines. The
coordination and cooperation between country supply team and Ministry of Foreign Affairs in
obtaining exemptions proved instrumental in ensuring timely availability at the facilities. The
project completely met the set objective of making oral polio vaccine available for all
supplementary immunization activities during the project implementation period.

The project implementation was completed by the end of 1st quarter of 2008 with full
disbursement and utilization of original and supplementary credit. The Project financed
approximately 85% of OPV for polio eradication during 2006-2007 through the original and
additional credit.

WHO and UNICEF jointly supported GOP to implement the project through forecasting the type
and quantity of vaccine required, collection of OPV utilization report from the provinces, support



                                                30

the government in submission of quarterly OPV arrival and utilization report to the WB,
monitoring and evaluation of the program activities and submission of recommendations to the
Government stakeholders and hiring of independent consultants for assessment of the project
implementation against the agreed indicators.

WHO, UNICEF and other partners extend financial assistance for hiring services of the qualified,
skilled, experienced and committed professionals, who facilitate the District Health Management
Teams for smooth implementation of campaigns to achieve the set targets. This provided quick
feedback to identify low-performing areas and rectify problems.

WHO carried out and independent performance audit of the second Pakistan partnership for
polio eradication project: IDA Buy Down for the period 17-28 August which concluded that that
the project met all the objective by timely providing the required amount of OPV for
supplementary immunization activities.

        SIA Coverage of 80% achieved in the remaining endemic provinces in the financing
        period: The mission examined various sets of coverage data for the SIAs conducted
        during the project period which showed that the coverage at the provincial level was
        above the target set for this indicator (85%).

        Timely Arrival of OPV at the district store 5 days before each SIA: Regarding the second
        indicator, the Mission concluded that despite the occasions in which this indicator could
        not have been met this indicator was also achieved because no single planned activity
        postponed or cancelled due to late arrival of the vaccine.

The Project is dealing with only one component of polio eradication initiative which is vaccine
procurement. The two indicators developed to monitor the performance are very SMART.
Presence of a well structured polio eradication management system at the federal and peripheral
level with inbuilt monitoring mechanism and strong partnership were the key success factors.

Lessons learnt:
    1. The program should be able to timely intimate on changing vaccine forecast, and the
        project should have enough flexibility in accommodating the changes that are purely
        based on virus epidemiology.
    2. A large stockpile of all three types of vaccines should be considered by the program in
        the very beginning.
    3. An improved capacity of vaccine management especially at districts and sub-district
        levels and a fast cold chain system would be an asset to maintain the vaccine efficacy in
        the presence power interruption for an average 10-12 hour a day.




                                                  31

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Islamic Republic of Pakistan: April 28,
      2004
  2. Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the period FY 06-
      09: April 4, 2006
  3. International Development Association Project Paper for a proposed additional financing
      credit in the amount of SDR 14 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a second
      partnership for polio eradication project: May 10, 2007
  4. Project Appraisal Document for the second partnership for polio eradication project:
      December 22, 2005
  5. Financing Agreement between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and IDA for second
      partnership for polio eradication project: February 17, 2006
  6. Project Implementation Plan of Pakistan: Polio eradication 2nd project through IDA buy
      down
  7. Implementation completion and results report on a loan/credit of SDR 20.23 million to
      Pakistan for Partnership for polio eradication: January 25, 2007
  8. Implementation Status and Results Report of June 30, 2008 for Pakistan, second
      partnership for polio eradication project
  9. Management Letter and Aide Memoire of March 18, 2008
  10. Management Letter and Aide Memoire of February 26, 2007
  11. Polio Eradication Initiative Pakistan: WHO (2002-08)
  12. WHO national surveillance bulletin: Issue 8 August 2008
  13. WHO's Post campaign independent coverage assessment report of January 2008 NIDs
  14. Summary report: World Bank (IDA) Polio Eradication buy downs: January 24, 2008
  15. Summary of IDA buy-downs
  16. Report on expanded pilot for IDA credit buy-downs
  17. Report of WHO/EMRO mission for carrying out a performance audit of the second
      Pakistan Partnership for Polio Eradication Project: IDA buy down: August 17-28, 2008
  18. Progress and Predicaments: Health Status in Pakistan: Draft Discussion: September 16,
      2008
  19. CR Report on the Emergency Technical Consultation on Polio Eradication in Pakistan:
      June 24-25, 2008-10-14
  20. Pakistan: Demography and Health Survey: 2006-07
  21. Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey (2005-06)
  22. Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey (2004-05)
  23. Wild Poliovirus Weekly update: WHO: September 24, 2008
  24. Eradication versus control for poliomyelitis: an economic analysis
  25. IEG ICR review of the Pakistan-Partnership for Polio Eradication




                                               32

33

