Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4145-1-PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the  
Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of the Global Program 
to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds)
 
Dated June 7, 2007  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4145-1-PAK
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 7, 2007, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF PAKISTAN
 (the “Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) acting in its own capacity and as administrator of 
the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds (the “Trust Funds”) for the 
purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement and in the original Financing Agreement (as defined 
in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 14,000,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
2.08. 
The Association shall: 
(a) 
as administrator of the Trust Funds and on behalf of the Recipient, pay 
all commitment charges and service charges, as they fall due under this 
Agreement, until the earlier of: (i) the date of the Assignment and 
Release Agreement; or (ii) the Buy-Down Completion Date;  
(b) 
acting in its own capacity and following the Assignment Trigger, assign 
its rights, title and interest in the debt payable by the Recipient under this 
Agreement to the Association as administrator of Trust Funds in return 
for receipt of the Repayment Amount, by concluding an Assignment and 
Release Agreement with the Recipient and the Association as 
administrator of the Trust Funds, substantially in the form of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and  
(c) 
acting in its own capacity, cancel the indebtedness of the Recipient under 
this Agreement, through the assignment of the principal amount of the 
Credit to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds in the 
manner specified in Section 2.08(b). 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Polio Eradication Initiative, or a significant part thereof, will 
be carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01.  The financing Agreement shall not become effective until a legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Association, showing that the Financing Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the 
Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms, 
has been received by the Association. 
Page  5
3
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, 
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary or Section Officer of that Division. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Islamabad 
Pakistan 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
 ECDIV-05-634 
 92 
51 
9205971 
Islamabad 
    92 
51 
9218976 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(acting in its own capacity and as administrator of the Global 
 
Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds) 
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts under its Polio 
Eradication Initiative (PEI) to eradicate polio from its territory. 
 
The Project consists of the following part: 
Procurement and Use of Additional Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV)
Provision and use of OPV (in addition to that provided under the Original 
Project) for purposes of immunizing children under five (5) years of age under the 
Supplemental Immunization Activities (SIAs) from August 2007 to January 2008.
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain at the national level (including for ICT and FANA), the Inter-Agency 
Coordination Committee, at the level of the Provinces, AJK and FATA, 
provincial coordination committees, and at the district level, district coordination 
committees, all as established under PEI to be responsible within their respective 
territories for the coordination of OPV supply as well as the planning, 
implementation and monitoring of PEI activities under the Project. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) supplemental immunization activities (SIAs) 
organized under PEI will be carried out with due diligence and efficiency; and 
(b) the disease surveillance systems established under PEI will be maintained, all 
throughout the period of Project implementation.   
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
Page  9
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period 
indicated in the Association’s request.  The audited Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods.
 All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
The following method of procurement may be used for goods:  
 
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
:
OPV shall be procured from 
UNICEF in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Procurement 
Guidelines. Such procurement may include large quantities.  
 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contract shall be subject to Prior Review:  
 
The OPV Procurement Agreement. 
Page  10
8
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to the Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in said Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent) 
 
%
of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
Procurement of Oral Polio 
Vaccine 
 
SDR 14,000,000 
 
100% 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
 
Page  11
9
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 1 and August 1 
 
Commencing August 1, 2017 to and 
including February 1, 2027 
1.25% 
Commencing August 1, 2027 to and 
including February 1, 2042 
2.50% 
Page  12
10
SCHEDULE 4 
Form of Assignment and Release Agreement 
Assignment and Release Agreement 
 
AGREEMENT, dated ______________, 2007, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) in its own capacity and as 
administrator of the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has been determined to be eligible for assistance 
from the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds (the Trust Funds) upon 
successful completion of the Second Partnership for Polio Eradication Project (the 
Project) as described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement between the Recipient 
and the Association dated ______________, 2007, (the Financing Agreement), through 
the transfer of the principal amount of the Credit to the Association as administrator of  
the Trust Funds, and for the cancellation of such debt by the Association as administrator 
of the Trust Funds; 
 
(B) 
the Association has received a certificate from the World Health 
Organization (the WHO Certificate) stating that the Project has been successfully carried 
out;  
 
(C) 
upon payment of the Repayment Amount, the Association is prepared to 
transfer its claim for payment under the Financing Agreement to the Association as 
administrator of the Trust Funds, following which the Association, as administrator of the 
Trust Funds, shall cancel such claims and release and discharge the Recipient from such 
debt. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Financing Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
Page  13
11
ARTICLE II 
 
Assignment 
 
Section 2.01. In consideration of the payment of the Repayment Amount of 
twenty one million one hundred and forty one thousand United States Dollars  
(US$21,141,000), receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Association hereby 
transfers, assigns and sets over the debt due under the Financing Agreement and all the 
Association’s rights, title and interest therein to the Association as administrator of the 
Trust Funds, and its successors and assigns, to have and to hold, absolutely and forever. 
 
Section 2.02. Notwithstanding the transfer and assignment of the debt due under 
the Financing Agreement to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, the 
Association acknowledges and agrees that the Association as administrator of the Trust 
Funds, does not assume and shall not be responsible for any of the liabilities or 
obligations of the Association under, or in respect of, the Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Representations and Warranties 
 
Section 3.01. The Association hereby represents and warrants that: 
 
(a) 
it is the sole beneficial owner of the debt due under the Financing 
Agreement with good and marketable title thereto free and clear of any liens, mortgages, 
security interests, charges, encumbrances or rights of others (except for the rights of the 
Association as administrator of the Trust Funds under this Agreement) and is exclusively 
entitled to possess and dispose of the debt due under the Financing Agreement in 
accordance with this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
it has all necessary power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver 
this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder; 
 
(c) 
the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of 
the transactions evidenced and contemplated hereby or hereunder have been duly 
authorized by all necessary action on its part; 
 
(d) 
this Agreement constitutes its valid and binding agreement and 
obligation enforceable and effective in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(e) 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement does not and 
will not conflict with: (i) any applicable law or regulation or any judicial order in effect at 
the date hereof; (ii) its constitutive documents; or (iii) any agreement or document to 
which it is a party or which is binding on it. 
 
Page  14
12
Section 3.02. The Recipient represents and warrants that: 
 
(a) 
it is indebted to the Association in the principal amount specified in the 
Financing Agreement, together with all charges accrued and unpaid thereon; 
 
(b) 
its liabilities in respect of the debt due under the Financing Agreement 
are not subject to reduction or diminution in any manner whatsoever including, without 
limitation, by way of set-off, compensation, counterclaim, defense, damages or 
otherwise; and 
 
(c) 
it hereby consents to the transfer and assignment of the debt due under 
the Financing Agreement to the Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds, 
pursuant to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Release 
 
Section 4.01. The Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds, having 
become the owner under this Agreement of the debt due under the Financing Agreement, 
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases and forever discharges the Recipient 
from any and all liabilities and payment obligations of whatsoever nature, whether 
present or future, arising in relation to the debt due under the Financing Agreement, all of 
which are hereby irrevocably cancelled. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration   
 
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Association 
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. 
Neither the Recipient nor the Association shall be entitled in any proceeding under this 
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or 
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Association.  
 
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or 
remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in 
such default.  No action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it 
in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect 
of any other or subsequent default.  
 
Page  15
13
 
Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
claim by either such party against the other party arising under this Agreement which has 
not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an 
Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.  
 
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Association and the Recipient. 
 
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Association, a second arbitrator shall be 
appointed by the Recipient, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the 
Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the 
President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, 
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the parties shall fail to 
appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any 
arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to 
act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for 
the appointment of the original arbitrator, and such successor shall have all the powers 
and duties of such original arbitrator. 
 
(d) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to 
arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the 
party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the other party 
shall notify to the party instituting such preceding the name of the arbitrator appointed 
such other party. 
 
(e) 
If within sixty (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section. 
 
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it 
shall sit.  
 
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties 
shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall 
be by majority vote. 
 
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall 
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by 
a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed 
counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon the parties 
Page  16
14
to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such award rendered 
by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and 
such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If 
the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances.  
Each party shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of 
the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the parties. Any 
question concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for 
payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. 
 
(j) 
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of 
any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this 
Agreement or of any claim by either party against the other party arising hereunder. 
 
(k) 
The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the 
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to 
pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except 
as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section. If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall 
have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the 
Association, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of the award 
against the Association. 
 
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant 
to this Section shall be made in the manner provided in Section 6.01 of this Agreement. 
The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any 
such notice or process. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  17
15
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Islamabad, Pakistan
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
 ECDIV-05-634 
 92 
51 
9205971 
 
Islamabad 
    92 
51 
9218976 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties. 
 
Page  18
16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(acting in its own capacity and as administrator of the Global 
Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds 
 
By  
Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
Page  19
17
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“AJK” means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir. 
 
3. 
“Assignment and Release Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement, to be entered into between the Recipient and the 
Association (in its own capacity and as administrator of the Trust Funds) upon 
the successful completion of the Project. 
 
4. 
“Assignment Trigger” means the receipt by the Association of the WHO 
Certificate (as hereinafter defined), satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5. 
“Balochistan” means the Province of Balochistan of the Recipient. 
 
6. 
“Buy-Down” means the transfer of the principal amount of the Credit to the 
Association as administrator of the Trust Funds under and in accordance with this 
Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Buy-Down Completion Date” means the date on which the Buy-Down takes 
place and shall be a date not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
8. 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“FANA” means the Federally Administered Northern Areas of the Recipient. 
 
10. 
“FATA” means the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of the Recipient. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association’s 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
12. 
“Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds” means the Trust Funds 
consisting of funds contributed or to be contributed by the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation and the United Nations Foundation, and administered by the 
Association, to provide relief on debt incurred in eradicating polio. 
 
13. 
“ICT” means the Islamabad Capital Territory administered by the Recipient. 
Page  20
18
14. 
 “NIDs” or “National Immunization Days” means the dates selected under PEI 
for the nationwide administration of OPV. 
 
15. 
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province of the Recipient. 
 
16. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for the Second 
Partnership for Polio Eradication Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated February 17, 2006 (Credit No. 4145-PAK). 
17. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
18. 
“OPV” means Oral Polio Vaccine. 
19. 
“OPV Procurement Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and UNICEF, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for the procurement of OPV under the Project. 
20. 
“Polio Eradication Initiative” or “PEI” means the Recipient’s initiative to 
eradicate polio, which consists of: (i) the procurement and supply of OPV; (ii) 
the use of such OPV for purposes of conducting SIAs (as hereinafter defined); 
and (iii) the implementation of a disease surveillance system to detect cases or 
outbreaks of polio, and the monitoring and evaluation of SIAs. 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
22. 
“Provinces” means Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab and Sindh collectively. 
23. 
“Punjab” means the Province of Punjab of the Recipient. 
24. 
“Repayment Amount” means the amount to be paid to the Association under 
Section 2.08(b) of this Agreement, which amount shall be calculated by the 
Association, based on prevailing exchange and interest rates at the time the 
Financing Agreement is signed, as the United States Dollar equivalent of the net 
present value of the principal repayments due by the Recipient under 
 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. To determine the net present value, the discount 
rate shall be an SDR-basket rate for maturities greater than 8.5 years calculated 
using the Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRR) published by the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation Development (OECD) for the 
component currencies of the SDR. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event 
that there are insufficient funds in the Trust Funds to pay the Repayment Amount 
as so calculated, the Repayment Amount shall be an amount equal to the amount 
of funds available in the Trust Funds for such purpose. 
Page  21
19
25. 
“SIAs” means the Recipient’s supplementary immunization activities consisting 
of NIDs, SNIDs and mop-up operations conducted under PEI. 
26. 
“Sindh” means the province of Sindh of the Recipient. 
27. 
“SNIDs” or “Sub-National Immunization Days” means the dates selected under 
PEI for the administration of OPV in selected areas. 
28. 
“UNICEF” means United Nations Children’s Fund, an international inter-
governmental organization established by the General Assembly of the United 
Nations by Resolution No. 57(1) of December 11, 1946. 
29. 
“WHO” means World Health Organization, the United Nations specialized 
agency for health established on April 7, 1948. 
30. 
“WHO Certificate” means the certificate to be furnished by WHO to the 
Association stating that the Project has been successfully carried out based upon 
the results of an independent performance audit of the Project conducted by 
WHO, all in accordance with the letters dated March 3, 2003, and 
 
March 13, 2003, exchanged between the Association and WHO. 
 
