Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20341-TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = US Dollars
LC = US$ 1
US$ 1 = LC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMS                         Autonomous Medical Store
AusAID                      Australian Agency for International Development
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
ECHO                        European Commission Humanitarian Assistance
GPA                         Governance and Public Administration
HPMU                        Health Program Management Unit
IDA                         International Development Association
IHA                         Interim Health Authority
JAM                         Joint Assessment Mission
JICA                        Japan International Cooperation Agency
NGO                         Non-government organization
OH                          Office of Health
TFET                        Trust Fund for East Timor
UNICEF                      United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                       United Nations Population Fund
UNTAET                      United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
WHO                         World Health Organization
Vice President: Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Team Leader: Fadia Saadah



EAST TIMOR
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .............3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................                      4
3. Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and strategic choices ........................................6
C   Project Description  Summary .................................................................8
1. Project components .................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported  by the project .............................................9
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................ 10
D  Project Rationale ................................................................                                               11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies ................... 11
3. Lessons learned and  reflected in the project design .............................................................. 13
4. Indications of Recipient commitment and ownership .......................................................... 13
5. Value added of IDA  support in this project ................................................................                      14
E   Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                       14
1. Economic ................................................................                                                        14
2. Financial ................................................................                                                        14
3. Technical ................................................................                                                       14
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                   14
5. Social ................................................................                                                          15
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                        15
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                          15
F   Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                       16
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                  16
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                   16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................ 17



G Main Grant Conditions .......................                                       17
1. Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                   17
2. Other .......................                                                      17
H Readiness for Implementation .......................                                20
I Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                               20
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Economic Analysis
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance
Map No. IBRD 30885



East Timor
Health Sector Rehabilitation And Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia And Pacific Region
Pacific Islands Country Unit
Date: May 24,2000                             Team Leader: Fadia Saadah
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland       Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: P0-70294                          Sector: HNP
Lending Instrument: Emergency Relief Grant    Theme(s): Health, nutrition and population
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit    [X] Grant      [] Guarantee    [ ] Other (Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 12.7 million
Proposed       [] To be defined     [] Multicurrency    [xl Single currency
terms:
[] Standard         [] Fixed             [] LIBOR-
Variable                                 based
Financing plan:        a3 To be defined
Sourme                         Local           Forein          Total
Special Financing: IDA Managed Trust Fund for      2.2             10.5             12.7
East Timor
Total:                                             2.2             10.5             12.7
Grantee: UNTAET
Guarantor: NA
Responsible Agency: UNTAET Office of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY
Annual      12.7
Cumulative      12.7
Project implementation period: 15 months
Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 2000    Expected closing date: February 28, 2002
Implementing agency: UTNTAET Office of Health
Contact person: Dr James Tulloch
Address: C/o UNTAET, Dili, E. Timor



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall goal of the program is to address immediate basic health needs of the population of East
Timor and develop health policies and health system appropriate to the country. This goal will be
achieved through two specific objectives: restoring access to services to a basic package of services, and
laying the foundations for health policies and health system development.
Restoring access to basic health services involves a) implementing a transitional strategy for service
provision focused on basic necessities for a functioning system b) a pharmaceutical logistics system to
assure the timely availability of drugs and medical supplies c) reconstruction, rehabilitation and re-
equipping of a number of health facilities, d) establishing a referral system and facilities e) re-building an
administrative infrastructure, f) capacity strengthening and g) a small grant scheme to support community
and stakeholder participation.
Policies and system development involves the identification and exploration of policy issues, consensus
building, and pilot programs. It also involves planning for health system design - the organizational
structure and supporting systems, and human resources development
Donor assistance to the health sector will be coordinated within an overall framework, or sector wide
program.
The overall program is planned for three years. The program will be implemented in phases, with the first
one covering a 15 months implementation period. The first grant agreement that will support this Project
funds the first phase of the program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for the first phase of the program are:
Li Children under one year of age fully immunized (at least 30% by mid-term and 60% by completion)
Li Villages with access to a permanent source of health care (at least 90 % by completion)
Li Health facilities selected in the district health plans appropriately utilized (at least 40% by mid-term
and 80% by completion)
Li Health facilities with less than two weeks of stock-out of selected essential drugs over a three-month
period (at least 90% by completion)
o  Options paper on health financing (completed by mid-term)
o  Options paper on the role of the private sector (completed by mid-term)
o  Regulations on pharmaceuticals (promulgated by mid-term)
o  Consultations with stakeholders regarding health policy (at least on quarterly basis)
In addition to the above indicators, the program will consider others in the subsequent phases of the
program. For instance, two economic indicators that have been shown in other settings to be very good
proxies for quality in primary health care systems are: 1) "the average salary levels of medical personnel
(adjusted for changes in consumer prices)," and 2) "the proportion of pharmaceuticals and supplies in the
total budget." The reason that these indicators are so quality-sensitive is the tendency of government-
managed systems to employ more health workers than they can afford to pay adequately and to reduce
non-personnel expenditures to free up funds to pay the salaries of their numerous employees. The result
is under-paid health workers who lack the incentive to provide good-quality care, as well as acute
shortages of necessary complementary inputs. Moreover, the program will consider two other indicators:



Page 3
the number of outpatient visits to primary care facilities per primary care provider and hospital occupancy
rates (see Annex 4 for more details).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document nurnber: 20341-TP                     Date of latest CAS discussion: NA
Donor support for the reconstruction of East Timor is taking place through the United Nations
Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET). Established by the Security Council Resolution
1272 (S/RES/1272) on October 25, 1999, UNTAET is expected to continue for approximately 2.5-3
years. During that time, UNTAET's mandate is to oversee the country's reconstruction, develop Timorese
administrative and technical capacities, and implement a strategy to hand over functions to an East
Timorese administration. Funding for the UNTAET effort is provided through (i) a $31 million
UNTAET trust fund funded through assessments on UN member states, which supports UNTAETs $700
million administrative costs; (ii) a $126 million short-term humanitarian pledge; and (iii) a $146 million
medium term development trust fund (Trust Fund for East Timor, TFET) pledge that is managed by IDA.
Additional resources are provided through bilateral and NGO contributions, which are likely to be
significant.
No CAS has yet been prepared for East Timor, which voted for independence from Indonesia August 30,
1999. The World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) in November 1999 identified priority short-
term reconstruction initiatives and estimates of external financing needs. To foster compatibility with
longer term development objectives the JAM used a comprehensive development framework approach
covering eight sectors, including health, and incorporated international technical expertise from five
donor countries, four UN agencies, the European Commission, the Asian Development Bank and the
World Bank.
One of the poorest regions in Indonesia before the disruption, East Timor now faces the need for
extensive rebuilding and rehabilitation, while at the same time establishing its political, economic and
social structures and planning for long term development. In the violence that followed the referendum it
is estimated that over 75 percent of the population of 850,000 was displaced, and of those who went to
West Timor approximately 100,000 are still refugees. Almost 70 percent of physical infrastructure was
destroyed or rendered inoperable. The situation is exacerbated by the exodus of higher level personnel, as
the Indonesians who occupied most technical and managerial positions have now left the country. Even
before the disturbances the territory lagged behind the rest of Indonesia in most social indicators, and 30
percent of the population lived below the poverty line - twice the national average. Per capita income is
now estimated to be $210 - 40 to 50 percent below its 1996 level.
The JAM found that virtually the entire pre-independence govemance structure had disappeared - at
every level. flowever, this also presents an opportunity for reform. Under Indonesian occupation the
civil service was characterized by overstaffing, multiple layers of bureaucracy, duplication of functions
between line ministries and decentralized departments, a top down organizational culture, and very low
levels of pay, encouraging the establishment of fringe benefits. Policy recommendations for the
transitional period are that the aggregate numbers for the civil service should not exceed 12,200. The
number pre-supposes no rehiring of paid civil servants at the village level, substantial cuts in management
and administrative staff, and replacing the previous full-time paid civil service positions at the sub-district
level with the community-elected sub-district council being developed through the Community
Empowerment and Local Govemance Project.



Page 4
After the disturbances the economy was hit by a dramatic supply shock, due to the destruction or looting
of local inventories of manufactured goods, the closing of the border with West Timor, and the lack of
civilian access to ports. The physical infrastructure and equipment in every bank was destroyed or looted,
and financial systems broke down. Commerce within East Timor has re-started, though it is constrained
by continued closure of borders with Indonesia, small port capacity, and almost non-existent mail and
land line telephone services. There are also only limited financial services. It is hoped that the precursors
of the Central Bank and the Treasury will be in place by July 1. The presence of many intemational
NGOs, and the international staff of UNTAET is creating something of a dual market. There is very little
cash in the indigenous market, and very little to start the economy moving again.
The social sectors were also hard hit by the violence. In the Eastern part of East Timor, schools, clinics
and other public buildings were targeted for destruction, while in the West and Central areas, the
destruction was even more widespread and included houses and businesses. Few health facilities and
even fewer schools remain usable, and most senior level staff, who were Indonesian, have left the
territory. In any case, the previous system is not a good model for the future. With respect to health, a
working group which included the main stakeholders in the sector made the following assessment of the
effects of the Indonesian system in January 2000: "The facilities or services provided in East Timor were
based on a standard that was not relevant to local population needs, situation and/or capacity to
maintain... .This legacy is evidenced in the high ratio of facilities to the population served as well as the
presence of facilities that are unnecessary or too costly to maintain." In addition, "this highly-centralized
system employed too few East Timorese at managerial administrative and decision-making levels
(provincial), resulting in a severe dearth of current managerial capacity in health. Conversely, the very
low field presence of doctors meant that more junior East Timorese health professionals (especially
nurses and midwives) were put in charge of the facilities, which then fueled the need to quickly produce
paramedical level personnel resulting in the current over-capacity."
It is against this background that the proposed health program supports the main objectives of the Trust
Fund for East Timor. These are to help in the reconstruction and development process, specifically to: (a)
start rehabilitation processes and ensure access to basic health services; and (b) begin long-term building
of a health system that will contribute to the development process in East Timor. Such a system aims to
improve health outcomes for the East Timorese population and establish a sustainable, efficient and
equitable health care system. Building needed capacity for the East Timorese to provide services and to
plan and manage their health care system is essential to achievement of these objectives..
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The health sector in East Timor faces many challenges including
> A shatteredgovernment health care system. Extensive destruction to the health infrastructure, loss of
senior staff at central, district and sub-district levels, and of consumables and equipment during the
post-referendum violence caused a breakdown of the health system. A survey conducted in January
2000 found only 23 percent of facilities not damaged. Only 20-30 of the 160 doctors working in the
country before the disturbances remain in the territory; the rest returned to Indonesia. On the more
positive side, most of the nurses and midwives who comprised about 80 percent of the technical staff
are East Timorese locals and still in the territory. Clearly a major reconstruction effort is needed. It
will be important, however, not to simply rebuild all facilities without consideration of the new
structure of the health system. Efforts to establish a Central Health Authority have started, with an
Interim Health Authority (IHA) being formed in February consisting of 16 members from East Timor
and seven international UNTAET staff. For the transition from the emergency to the post-conflict
rehabilitation phase, the Interim Health Authority has prepared a work plan for 2000 which
emphasizes immediate needs for reconstruction and delivery of basic services, while beginning work



Page 5
on essential elements of a functioning health system - minimum standards, monitoring and evaluation,
logistics systems and guiding principles. There is general agreement that the transitional strategy
should provide flexibility for the future and should not put in place elements that could distort the
future development of the health system. It also has to be realistic and take into account the present
limited capacity for management and technical oversight.
> Heavy reliance on NGOs for health care services. With the collapse of the government health care
system, NGOs (mostly international) became the main service providers. The Church and religious
charities continued to operate clinics and some small hospitals, as they have done for many years, and
the coffee cooperatives also have their own health facilities. In general, the services focus mostly on
essential curative services, medical screening of returnees, and detection and prevention of
communicable diseases such as malaria and measles. Very few public health interventions (non-
clinical) are provided. In terms of geographic coverage, at least some sub-districts in all districts
receive some health services. It is estimated that about 71 facilities at sub-district level or higher are
operating in the 13 districts were operating in February 2000, compared with 96 before the
disturbances. Services below the sub-district level (i.e., at the community level) are scarce. (Getting a
firm baseline figure is difficult as many clinics are operating in temporary premises.) In order to
ensure coverage of as many districts and sub-districts as possible, many NGOs have assumed primary
responsibility for service delivery in a specific area. These de facto arrangements help to increase
access to services and reduce duplication of effort in some districts. However, each NGO has its own
personnel, approach, budget and drug supply systems. Many of the NGOs receive support as part of
the humanitarian and emergency relief funds - most of which will be ending in the near future. There
is a clear need for a transition strategy from this "relief' type of service delivery toward a more
systematic approach for health care delivery that ensures the delivery of a basic package of services at
the district level to a common standard.
> A previous system that did not perform well. Health status was poor in East Timor before the
disturbances. UN figures estimate life expectancy at below 50 in 1995. The previous health care
system in East Timor had many limitations and public health services such as clean water and
sanitation were also limited. The massive destruction presents an opportunity for addressing the main
constraints that limited the performance of the previous health system. These include:
o  A system that was chronically under-funded and public subsidies that were not pro-poor.
o  An incentive system that did not match the stated goals of the health system, especially with
regard to being pro-poor.
O  Poor quality of services and low utilization of public health sector facilities.
O  Lack of responsiveness to needs and demand of the beneficiaries, especially the poor.
u  Inadequate quality assurance systems and regulatory framework
o  Highly centralized system that could not adequately respond to local needs
o  Health information system that was inadequate for planning and/or evaluation of health services
Clearly, East Timor will not be inclined to rebuild the previous system. Moreover, the development
of the new system should ensure that the appropriate lessons learned are reflected in the design of the
new system.
> Little knowledge of consumer needs, demands and expectations. Under the Indonesian system,
people had little to say about the nature of the health services they received. Many consumers sought
traditional health care, and utilization rates of public health sector facilities were very low. The
information provided to the beneficiaries was inadequate, at best. Not surprisingly this situation has
not changed much in recent months. Very little has been done during the emergency period to provide
preventive services and information. However, if the health system is to work well in the future, it is
important to give careful consideration to the provision of information to consumers, to ensure that



Page 6
people participate in decisions about the health care system and that they can provide necessary
feedback to health care providers. Moreover, efforts to provide health promotion need to start as soon
as possible.
> Future policy direction and health system definition needs to be developed Development of the
system over the long term will require a clear health policy. East Timor is in a unique position to
formulate and apply health policies and legislation suited to its particular needs. Different options can
be considered and tried out, to avoid rapid decisions that may have long-term deleterious effects.
However, policy work will be especially challenging because while it is necessary to address urgent
policy issues, it would be best if this were done within an overall policy framework that shows clearly
how the various pieces fit together. The outline of a simple but fairly general health policy framework
might include the following elements: sector objectives and context; role of government in financing
and/or provision of health services, basic health services (i.e., what should be included, and to what
population groups, raising issues such as health promotion, targeting, financing options, quality vs
access) and beyond basic services (i.e., what will be the government role in provision and financing as
incomes rise in the future).
D 3ependence on donors. East Timor is totally dependent on donor support, and this will continue for
the next two to three years. Although the main channels for donor support have been the UNTAET
trust fund and TFET, several donors have also provided support to NGOs working in health. While
invaluable during the emergency phase, there is a need for a more coordinated approach for the
transition period, and beyond. The IHA recognizing that national capacity to deal with many separate
donors will remain limited for the foreseeable future, has indicated that it wishes to see such
coordination. In addition, the 1IHA wishes to see assistance to the sector guided by an overall strategy
for the transition period, and beyond. Bilateral projects that are not within the strategic framework
could seriously jeopardize future development (e.g. un-programmed investments in hospital care that
incur high running costs). Moreover, defining a clear health policy for East Timor would provide a
firm basis for such a sector-wide approach beyond the period of post-conflict rehabilitation. There is
an opportunity here to work on one sectoral program that is supported by different donors.
Against this background, what is the strategy of the transitional government and what are the strategic
choices that need to be considered? A major issue that runs throughout the choices below is the question
of balance between addressing urgent needs and considering future development. It is important that
what is addressed in the short term does not distort the medium to long term development of the system.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issue                  Strategic choices
A shattered government Civil works, pharmaceuticals and human resource development have been
health care system     identified as key elements that need to be addressed immediately. Policy and
systems development are longer term issues. Addressing these issues will
start in the first year of implementation of the program.
The IHA is giving priority to services at the district level, to definition of a
basic package that will meet the main needs of the communities, to be
delivered through a system with fewer but more strategically placed physical
facilities than previously. The emphasis is therefore on primary rather than
tertiary health care, and services with public goods aspects, and externalities.
The program will also build on existing East Timorese capacity. To this end,
the nurses and midwives are critical to delivery of a basic package of services
to the community at district and sub-district level and human resource
_development will pay particular attention to their training and career needs.



Page 7
Heavy reliance on     An important strategic choice for the transition period is what agency or
NGOs                  agencies is best able to ensure a basic package at the community level, and
involves consideration of the role of government in assuring health services.
The option chosen by the project is for government to finance services, but
for the NGOs to be the service providers, according to standards set by
government. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between government
and the main NGO service providers will define the contractual relationship.
It will provide a bridge from the emergency period to the assumption of
responsibility by the East Timorese health authority, while providing
flexibility as systems and policies become better defined. Moreover, The
European Commission's Humanitarian Office (ECHO) which has been one of
the major agencies funding NGOs in East Timor is going to provide
additional funding to NGOs to help bridge the emergency to the rehabilitation
phase. There is a strong commitment by ECHO to co-operate and co-ordinate
closely with the Interim Health Authority and to adhere to its principles,
guidelines and conditions.
Little knowledge of   The program has identified health promotion as an immediate need that will
consumer needs,       be addressed starting with the first phase of the project. In addition,
demands and           establishing two-way communication between the health service and the
expectations          consumer will be part of the formal process of systems development. District
level and some sub-district level health committees are planned, and the IHA
is looking at the most effective ways to use them to strengthen community
participation. However, institution building of this kind will take time, and
many existing community and non-govemment organizations can act as a link
between individuals and the health system. Thus in the short term a small
grants program will stimulate and support organizations of civil society active
in the health field.
Policy direction and  An important strategic issue for East Timor is deciding on whether to get the
health system design    policy and systems right before delivering any services, or to begin providing
need to be developed    services at the community level to meet the urgent needs of the poor, with the
attendant risk of future distortion of the system. Also, there is a big risk if a
health policy framework is imposed without adequate consultation. Many
countries have good policy papers, but they do not reflect reality. The best
option is to allow some time for building capacity and conducting needed
studies and analytic work, as well as employing a wide consultative process.
However, there are some urgent policy choices that need to be made fairly
soon to minimize distortion of future development of the system.
Dependence on donors  The options for donors are to stick to a traditional bilateral project approach or
to support policy development and implementation through a sector program.
For the transition from emergency to post-conflict rehabilitation, the Interim
Health Authority has opted for one single sector rehabilitation program to be
financed through the TFET and to discourage individual donors from bilateral
projects outside this strategic framework. The donors contributing to the
TFET have chosen to abstain from bilateral projects and will provide funding
outside TFET only to activities that fall within the strategic framework. This
provides a good starting point for a sector wide approach to health if the
future govemment wishes to continue with this model.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
lnjwatle            IDA-    % of WDA.
000   -< -.$m)   Total    IgA           2
Conoii:                            ::                  :     ::it  I;:L:: of.....E 0  fC h4hol   f  tiodin}!_t000. 0000:
Component 1. Restoring access to        HB             17.5  85%        10.0    57%
basic health services.
This will include the following activities:
A transitional strategy for service
provision focusing on accelerated
delivery of selected high priority
programs (e.g. immunization, TB,
nutrition, health promotion) and
supported by a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between the
health authority (IHA/HO) and service
providers at the district level to provide a
basic package of services to the
maximum number of people in each
district. The transitional strategy will
also support temporary repairs, some
new building, and re-equipment. It will
re-establish an administrative
infrastructure at the central and district
levels, and training for the delivery of
basic services, and for management and
administration. Moreover, a plan for
addressing hospitals needs and preparing
an action plan for excess hospital
capacity will be developed. A major part
of the this component involves the
establishment of a
pharmaceuticals/logistic systems for East
Timor. Stakeholder participation will
also be supported through various
consultation mechanisms including a
small grants scheme and establishment
of health boards at the district and sub-
district levels.



Page 9
Component 2: Health Policies and    HB/HY              1.9   9%         1.8    95%
Health System Development.
This component addresses medium to
long tenn issues. Through capacity
building, studies and stakeholder
consultations it will begin the process of
defining and developing health policies
appropriate to the country. It will also
support a strategy for human resource
development. The Project will also
support technical assistance, study tours
and specific policy papers. These papers
will address issues of private practice
and health financing. Moreover, a
number of regulations related to the
health sector wvill be issued including
regulations on pharmaceuticals.
Component 3: Program Management  BU/BY                  1.2   6%        0.9    75%
Unit.
This component will include provision
for program management and
administration at the central and district
level. It will develop and support
capacity to monitor and evaluate, and
provide technical assistance to the
program management team (IHA/OH)
Total      20.7  100%   = 12.7    62%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
> Ensure that the system development is guided by a clear policy for the future of the health sector;
E Ensure that government subsidies are targeted to the poor and to public goods and other areas that
may require government interventions (e.g. market failures)
> Define the role of government in a) financing and b) delivery of health services
>  Institute mechanisms for community participation in the choices about their health care and provision
of information to consumers of health services
>  Maintain oversight over policies in other sectors that affect health outcomes
> Create an Autonomous Medical Stores (AMS), responsible to government but run on commercial
lines by non-government employees.
3. Benefits and target population:
Except in a few urban areas poverty is almost universal, with currently only limited NGO services to
provide for basic needs. The whole population will benefit therefore from the restoration of the health
services, and the development of appropriate health policies and systems. However, the emphasis is on
the district and sub-district level, with the objective of reaching the majority of the population living in
rural areas whose agricultural livelihoods were disrupted by the violence, and of establishing mechanisms



Page 1 0
to serve those in the most remote areas whose access to health services is very limited, and in some cases
non-existent.
Women of reproductive age (1 5 to 49) and children under 5, who represent 23 percent and 15 percent of
the population respectively, will benefit significantly from the project. One of the most urgent and
widespread needs is for maternal and child health services - particularly maternity care and care of the
newborn. Even when there were government services providing family planning, ante natal care,
assistance at delivery and some post natal care, fertility was high - between 4 and 5 children per woman
(UN figures), and child survival was low - one in five children dying before their fifth birthday. This
situation is now undoubtedly worse. Many districts report deaths of mothers in childbirth, though there
are no firm figures.
The re-establishment of a health system will provide employment opportunities to health workers.
In addition, there will be benefits to local builders and craftsmen involved in the re-building of the health
facilities, with similar benefits to the community, and with the additional benefit of the psychological
impact of seeing reconstruction efforts.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The first grant agreement funds implementation for 15 months of this three year
program.
Project Management. The project will be implemented by UNTAET/GPA. The Office of Health (OH) in
the Directorate of Social Services in the GPA is the responsible unit for health services in East Timor and
will be the Health Program Management Unit (HPMU). The OH and East Timorese health staff have
formed an Interim Health Authority (IHA) that is working closely to implement the health program. The
IHA has two coordinators, the Head of the OH and the senior of the East Timorese health staff.
The OH will be designated the HPMU with overall responsibility for project activities. The Head of the
GPA/OH will be designated the Project Director and will be accountable for policy development, physical
and financial progress of the Project in accordance with the agreed implementation program. Moreover,
the key counterpart for the Project Director in the IHA (the co-coordinator) will be appointed as the
Deputy Project Director. The Project Director will also be responsible for monitoring quality delivery of
basic health services by the service providers and the efficient procurement of drugs and medical supplies
and their distribution by the proposed AMS. The staff of the IHA will work in parallel with the Project
Director and his staff in all aspects of Project implementation.
The Program Director will be supported by key technical specialists in the following areas: (a) health
policy, regulation and legislation development; (b) health service delivery; (c) management of physical
infrastructure (re)construction; (d) procurement; and (e) financial and administrative management. These
key technical specialist will be supported by specialists on short-term consultant assignments or long-term
staff assignments, and support staff as required. In general, there will be a national counterpart for each
appointed international staff to be trained to take over the responsibilities in a reasonable period of time.
The establishment of the HPMU and the appointment of the procurement andfinancial management
specialists are conditions of effectiveness.
Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 15 months
from date of effectiveness. Disbursement will start using traditional disbursement methods - direct
payments or Statement of Expenditure (SOE) reimbursements. All disbursements against contracts for
goods costing $200,000 equivalent or more and works costing US$ 250,000 equivalent or more, and
operating costs, training, fellowships and workshop, services of consulting firms costing US$ 100,000



Page t 1
equivalent or more and individual consultants costing US$ 50,000 equivalent or more will be fully
docurnented. All contracts below the above thresholds will be made against certified Statements of
Expenditures. The documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by the PMU for at least
one year after the receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
Financial Management. A Financial Manager (FM) with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
will be appointed within the Health Program Management Unit (HPMU). The UNTAET Central Fiscal
Authority will provide guidance and oversight of the FM. The HPMI will also recruit adequate
budgeting, accounting and support staff. The Financial Manager will establish appropriate accounting
and internal control procedures for authorizing payments, recording of all project related expenditures,
periodic financial reporting and preparation of annual financial statements for external audit. The
accounting system will be designed to maintain separate project accounts for TFET funded activities in
accordance with the Grant Agreement. Details of financial management arrangements are given in Annex
6.
Audit The HPMIJ will prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an
independent external auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the
financial statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will be appointed on terms of reference
acceptable to IDA no later than December 31, 2000. The first audit will be carried out for the financial
year ending June 30, 2001 and annually thereafter.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Option 1: Rebuild the old system: This is perhaps the easiest option that East Timor could choose.
However, as discussed above, the previous system had many limitations and did not provide the desired
quality services, especially to those in the remote areas and the poor. The IHA has decided against this
model.
Option 2: Address immediate needs through the delivery of basic services, and leave policy
development until later. This option was not favored, as to the extent possible the IHA. wishes to develop
an overall policy framework that would take into account activities to be undertaken in the short term, as
well as over the medium to long term. It is thought that this would provide a coherent system in which
the pieces all fit together, rather than an uncoordinated patchwork of services.
Option 3: Concentrate only on health policy and system development, and leave service delivery
until decisions have been made on overall direction and the package of services. In a country as
devastated as East Timor, it would not be advisable, either from a health or political standpoint to delay
addressing the urgent needs of the population until the health policy options are addressed.
Option 4: Balancing the short and medium to long term. This is the option chosen for project design:
a) restoring access to basic health services while retaining sufficient flexibility that future development of
policy and the health system would not be distorted, and b) making a start on addressing the major policy
issues on which East Timor will have to decide. This approach protects basic services while providing the
technical inputs needed for policy development. The approach also allows for a wide consultative process
that will ensure higher ownership and participation in the development of policy.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(Comtpleted, ongoing and planned)



Page 12
Secorissue  P!rojec)i ;5\      ;    ; ~ t;  0. _;            Lat; s bt Supeviio (For  590)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Community             The Community Empowerment and       NA -             NA
Empowerment           Local Governance Project aims to build   Project declared
equitable, accountable, transparent and   effective March
participatory local governance structures  21, 2000.
through which communities can work to
rehabilitate basic economic
infrastructure. The elected sub-district
councils provide the potential for broader
community participation in other sectors
- including health
Education             School System Revitalization to raise the NA         NA
rehabilitation       quality of the educational program in the  Project under
medium term, and rebuild the schools as  preparation
quickly as possible.
Employment creation   Small labor intensive works and job  NA              NA
and debris collection   creation to provide short term
employment and income opportunities
for the poor in the capital, Dili. The
solid waste and debris activities will
reduce the risks to health in the poor
areas of Dili, while increased income
would contribute to improved nutrition.
Other development
agencies
Roads, transport, ports and power project NA         NA
Transport             supporting rehabilitation and long term
infrastructure       planning for infrastructure investment.
This project is critical to health sector
development as access, referral, and drug
supply depend heavily on adequate
roads, a well functioning transport
system and ports.
Water and Sanitation   A joint mission will be appraising the    NA        NA
ADB                   project at the end of April. Water supply  Project not yet
and sanitation needs are urgent, and a  appraised
significant contributor to poor health.



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learnedfrom other post-conflict situations
Lessons from many post-conflict situations (including Cambodia, Mozambique, Bosnia, West and Central
Africa, the Palestinian territories) point to the following factors as key for addressing health sector issues
in a post-conflict situation:
>  need to maximize the value of donor international community inputs to the formulation and
development of health policy
>  need to develop a clear conceptual framework to guide health system development as countries
emerge from conflict; this should be informed by multidisciplinary approaches to understanding the
wider context and consequences for health
>  the approach should establish processes to involve a wide range of stakeholders in a participatory and
transparent process of identifying needs and priorities and considering alternative models and
approaches to health system development
>  careful consideration should be given to limited capacity of a range of different stakeholders
(government at central and local level, UN agencies, NGOs, traditional, public and private sector
providers) in financing, providing and overseeing health service provision
>  the need to promote evidence-based policy and planning to ensure that more good than harm results
from interventions proposed and that resources are used as equitably and efficiently as possible.
Lessons learnedfrom health sector development programs in other countries
Key findings for IDA's work in the health sector identified in the recent OED reviewv are a) that the most
complex projects are found in countries with least capacity to implement, b) that project documentation
provides plentiful lists of suggested indicators but country capacity to collect data and to monitor and
evaluate is rarely assessed, and progress towards development objectives is rarely a focus of supervision,
and c) that institutional assessment is weak. These findings present important lessons for work in East
Timor. First, despite the broad and pressing needs facing the East Timorese in establishing a functioning
health system, the re-structuring must be calibrated with emerging capacity; second, the Interim Health
Authority and UNTAET need agreement on a few monitorable indicators that will guide program
direction and project implementation, and third, proposals for health systems development need to take
into account the broader political and government framework designed to take the country forward after
the transition period.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership:
UNTAET as the provisional govemment is the recipient of the funds, and established an Interim Health
Authority (IHA) in February 2000. The IHA has 16 members from East Timor, and seven international
staff. The IHA has already started work. It has:
*  formed itself into working groups to address main sector issues
*  surveyed facilities to determine their physical condition and whether and how they are functioning
*  is working on developing a human resource roster to identify all employed and currently unemployed
health workers
*  begun work on developing national minimum standards.
l Investing in Health. Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition and Population Sector. World
Bank 1999.



Page 14
The IHA team worked very closely with the mission and showed a high level of commitment to the
program. IHA ownership of the program has been facilitated by the leadership of its two coordinators - a
highly qualified East Timorese doctor and, on the international side, by a WHO expert who is head of the
Office of Health at UNTAET. Many of the staff have also had experience of running a district, or a
hospital, and their understanding of the issues and the needs of the country has helped project design.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
The health system of East Timor was devastated by the recent violence, and rebuilding is hampered by the
failure of the previous system to train more than a few East Timorese for health management. In
response, the international community has pledged assistance and funds, and at the multi-donor agency
meeting IDA was entrusted the mandate for this type of Project, with the assumption that IDA can
mobilize both in-house and external highly qualified technical assistance to rebuild the health system.
IDA has drawn on its experience in the health sector over the past thirty years, its expertise in policy
development and financing issues and, with the full cooperation of major donors to TFET whose
representatives were part of the joint mission, has secured agreement on a sector approach and an overall
framework for assistance to the sector in the transition period. Such an approach reduces the risk of over-
stretching very limited capacity with numerous separate projects.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
See Annex 4.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)   NPV=US$                    million; FRR=       %
3. Technical: This is an unusual situation in which the recipient of the grant is the UN as a transitional
administration, charged with both meeting immediate needs and building capacity among the East
Timorese to take responsibility for the health system, both management and service delivery, at the
end of a two to three year period. The Project design tried to build on potential strengths in the
system. Key among them is the presence of several NGOs with the capacity to deliver services at
district level and below. The IHA will contract with the NGOs to deliver services during the transition
period, and though the system will rely heavily on expatriate doctors, the agreement will include
provision for staffing with and training of the more plentiful East Timorese nurses and midwives.
Upgrading their skills to enable them to play a larger role in service delivery will reduce the reliance
on doctors in the future. The program will also focus its efforts on a limited package of services in
the short term - heavily focused on priority programs such as immunization which have broken
down, and drawing on the expertise of other agencies - WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA. Moreover, the
policy development component will pay special attention to both the content as well as the process of
developing health policies. To this end, the process will be highly consultative and will involve key
stakeholders and beneficiaries. Such a process is likely to strengthen the ownership in the policies to
be adopted. As regards the civil works and other implementation issues, the program management
unit will include highly qualified staff to assist with these important implementation issues and avoid
bottlenecks. Finally, there were three main investment cost assessments: for civil works and
equipment, for pharmaceuticals and for training. These used available local data for building costs,
information from NGOs on equipment and pharmaceuticals, and information on overseas training
programs, checked against the international experience of the experts on the team..
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: UNTAET is the formal implementing agency.



Page 15
b. Project management: In order to build capacity, the Office of Health has established a joint team
with East Timorese counterparts - the Interim Health Authority - and this will be the Health
Project Management Unit. The project director will be the head of the Office of Health, and the
East Timorese co-coordinator of the IHA will be deputy project director. The IHA will be
strengthened by several experts contracted to provide technical assistance. A key consultant will
be the project financial officer, whose appointment will be a condition of effectiveness. All
consultants will work closely with one or several East Timorese, who besides this on the job
training will also attend courses overseas.
5. Social:
The objective of the program is to support the reconstruction and development program by restoring
access to basic health services, and build systems and policies that ensure access to health services for the
poor. The impact of the program is expected to be population wide - and especially important to the 80
percent of the population in rural areas. In order to achieve the positive impact hoped for, it is important
that services are of adequate quality to create demand. If not, people will continue to turn to church
providers, to traditional medicine, or in the case of women in childbirth to family members. There is
some danger of a backlash with regard to the transitional authority and other donor agencies, if the
promised benefits of assistance are seen as slow to materialize.
The program also makes provision for a small grants program to finance the activities of groups within
civil society. This small grants scheme recognizes that many organizations are eager to participate in the
re-building of the country, but often feel somewhat excluded. The grants will therefore fund activities of
professional associations, community groups, women's groups, local NGOs, groups which will not be
government service providers but whose activities help to build a broad constituency for health.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   [] A     [] B   [X] C
The project will have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. It involves rehabilitation and some
new construction of health centers, to repair or replace those damaged or destroyed in the violence in
September 1999 that followed the Referendum. The construction will take place in villages and town,
mainly in the same locations as previously, and there will be little or no new development. In fact, the
environment will be improved both visually and with respect to health by the replacement of unsafe and
burned out structures with functional buildings. Moreover, guidelines for land acquisition have been
drafted and the adoption of these guidelines is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Malaria and dengue fever are both highly endemic in East Timor. However, the health system does not
plan to use mosquito vector control measures (e.g., spraying of pesticides) that would be likely to have
adverse effects on the environment. Instead, other measures will be used that have less serious
environmental effects (e.g., treated bed nets, health education). A water and sanitation project, also to be
financed from the TFET and prepared by the Asian Development Bank will address some of the dangers
posed by poor drainage and standing water which provide breeding grounds for the mosquito. An
additional environmental concern is the disposal of medical waste. The project will provide health
centers with incinerators that will be used to dispose of their own medical waste.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: the mission members and East Timorese counterparts
on the IHA consulted widely with organizations in the communities, including the church. An
anthropologist on the team conducted a wide range of interviews and discussions with local people in



Page 16
several districts to ascertain where they are currently going for services, if at all, and what they would
expect of their health system and providers.
b. Other key stakeholders: The mission and the IHA also had discussions with all the major international
NGOs active in health, and several smaller agencies too. They also met with local NGOs, with women's
groups and with the midwives' association. The specialist agencies of the UN were consulted and their
experience helped to guide program direction. Representatives of three of the main donors to TFET -
from AusAID, the European Commission and Portugal were part of the mission team, and other donors,
e.g. JICA were met with.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
See Annex 4
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Rlsk           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The transitional authority structure and  S     Ensure that key functions needed for the
procedures will not be in place by July 1,      program are built into the HPMU
2000, especially the financial, procurement
and payroll systems.
The recovery program for the economy of the H   Ensure that the health policy options take this
country will be slower than expected            risk into account.
From Components to Outputs
That restoring access to public facilities will  M  The investments in public facilities will focus
not increase utilization and access to basic    on those where the demand is high and other
health services                                 options are not feasible. The program will also
invest in improving quality of the service that
should minimize this risk.
That training studies and stakeholder   M       Policy development is a lengthy process and is
consultations will not translate into increased  both technical and political. The project will
capacity leading to effective policy            ensure the technical inputs and consultations
development and implementation                  fit within the policy development framework
and identify key intermediate outputs.
Moreover, the participation of the East
Timorese staff at the different stages is
considered an integral part of the process.
That NGOs will not be able to provide the    M  Consultations with NGOs indicated that many
basic package of basic services and expand      of them are willing and able to provide these
access                                          services.
The logistic system designed will not ensure  N  The design for this sub-component has taken
that drugs are available in a timely manner     into account the different risks involved and
selected the most feasible and efficient option



Page 17
That rehabilitation /reconstruction and  N      The IHA has asked that all civil works planned
equipping will not be done according to plan    by other agencies and service providers be
cleared with them and be consistent with the
overall plan
That an action plan to downsize the access    M  The IHA has agreed no more than five
bed capacity of hospitals will not be           hospitals will remain in the country and
developed                                       informed stakeholders about this decision.
M
That improved capacity for the IHA/HO will      Efforts to ensure that capacity building efforts
not be achieved.                                and training match the capacity and needs of
the IHA were made. Moreover, the IHA
structure will be revised to fit with the overall
design of the program, thus linking capacity
building with results.
Overall Risk Rating                     S      I__
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial issues in the project design include:
*  A decision not to rebuild all health facilities that existed before the disturbances. The excess capacity
is a particular concern when it comes to hospital bed capacity and dealing with issue is likely to be
controversial.
*  The decision to have an autonomous medical store
* Health financing options as well as those dealing with the role off the government role of the public
and the private sectors may be controversial issues.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions
(a)  that the Health Program Management Unit has been established within UNTAET's
Governance and Public Administration Pillar, with qualified personnel in adequate
numbers, including a financial manager and a procurement specialist acceptable to IDA;
(b)  that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, acceptable to IDA, has been
adopted;
(c)  that an action plan for procurement under the Project, acceptable to IDA, has been adopted;
(d)  that the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, acceptable to IDA, have been issued
by the Recipient; and
(e)  that the Guidelines for the preparation of district health plans, acceptable to IDA, have been
adopted.



Page 18
Others:
Implementation
1.    UJNTAET shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a Health
Program Management Unit within UNTAET's Governance and Public Administration Pillar, with
competent personnel in adequate numbers, including:
(a)    a program director who shall be the senior health professional in UNTAET's Governance
and Public Administration Pillar;
(b)    a health planning and management specialist;
(c)    a procurement specialist; and
(d)    a financial manager.
2.    In carrying out Component 1 of the Project, UNTAET shall enter into agreements with non-
governmental organizations for the delivery of district health services in accordance with guidelines
agreed with IDA.
3.    In carrying out Component 1 of the Project, UNTAET will:
(a) take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of persons and to avoid
the displacement of said persons;
(b) where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is unavoidable,
ensure that the Recipient shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such
acquisition or displacement, make available to Affected Persons, compensation in
accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c) in the event that there are two hundred or more Affected Persons:
(i)  prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement and furnish such plan to IDA for approval; and
(ii) prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected Persons shall have
been compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
4.    In carrying out Component 2 of the Project, UNTAET will:
(a)    not later than October 31, 2000, prepare draft regulations concerning pharmaceuticals,
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
(b)   furnish such draft to IDA for comments; and
(c)   thereafter, taking into consideration the comments of IDA, take the steps required to
promulgate the regulations.
5.    In carrying out Component 2 of the Project, UNTAET will:
(a)    not later than November 30, 2000, prepare an options paper, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, which shall address the issues related to the private provision of
health services;
(b)   furnish the options paper to IDA for comments; and
(c)    promptly thereafter, prepare an action plan taking into consideration the comments of
IDA on the options paper.
6.    In carrying out Component 2 of the Project, UNTAET will:



Page 19
(a)    not later than January 31, 2001, prepare an options paper, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, which shall address the issues of health financing, including fees for
health services;
(c)    furnish the options paper to IDA for comments;. and
(c)    promptly thereafter, prepare an action plan taking into consideration the comments of
IDA on the options paper.
7.     UNTAET will:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators for the Project, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and furnish to IDA, on or about
March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph 7.(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c)    review with IDA, by May 31, 2001, or such later date as IDA shall request, the report
referred to in paragraph 7. (b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and IDA's views on the matter.
Financial:
i.    UNTAET will maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of UNTAET responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
2.     UNTAET will:
(a)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph I above including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable IDA;
(b)  furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, UNTAET will:
(a)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 1 above, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)  retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)  enable IDA representatives to examine such records; and



Page 20
(d)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph 2 above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
The preliminary designs for the civil works were done during the mission.
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
A procurement plan for the first year activities has been prepared as well as terms of reference for
key technical assistance contracts.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
A tentative implementation plan was prepared. A more detailed plan that will be translated to the
local language is under preparation.
[] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
NA
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:  d aadh, Senior Health and Population Specialist, EASHD
Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby, Sector sector, E^II)
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Ro         untry  rector, EACNI



ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program
f#Irarchy of              Key Performance                Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                   Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal: NA   Sector Indicators:          Sector / Country Reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Project Development       Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Address immediate basic                                                                The transitional authority
health needs and develop                                                               structure and procedures will
appropriate health policies                                                            be in place by July 1, 2000,
and systems                                                                            especially the financial,
procurement and payroll
systems.
The recovery program for the
economy of the country will
proceed as expected
Output from each          Output Indicators:              Project Reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:                i) Children under one year of age   Project monitoring and
Restoring Access          fully immunized (at least 30% by   evaluation/EPI statistics  That restoring access to public
mid-term and 60% by                                         facilities that are equipped and
completion)                                                 supplied will increase
utilization and help address
ii) Villages with access to a  Project monitoring and       basic health needs
permanent source of health care   evaluation
(at least 90 % by completion)
iii) Health facilities selected in the  Project monitoring and
district health plans appropriately  evaluation/service statistics
utilized (at least 40% by mid-term
and 80% by completion)
iv) Health facilities with less than  Project monitoring and
two weeks of stock-out of      evaluation - inquiries to health
selected essential drugs over a  centers/records of the AMS
three-month period (at least 90%
by completion)
Policy and system         v) Options paper on health      Project monitoring and       That training, studies and
development               financing (completed by mid-    evaluation/supervision mission  stakeholder consultations will
term)                                                       translate into increased
capacity leading to effective
policy development and
vi) Options paper on the role of    Project monitoring and  implementation.
the private sector (completed by    evaluation/supervision mission
mid-term)
vii) Regulations on
pharmaceuticals (promulgated by
mid-term)
viii) Consultations with
stakeholders regarding health
policy (at least on quarterly basis)



Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each        Project Reports:              (from Components to
components:                component) (US $mill)                                        Outputs)
Restoring Access to Basic          9.5
Services
Transitional strategy for                                 Project monitoring and        That NGOs will be able to
service provision                                         evaluation                    provide the basic package of
* Accelerated                                                                           health services and expand
implementation of                                                                    access
selected high priority
activities
* Further define the basic
package of health
services
* Develop and adopt an
essential drug list and                                                              That the logistics system
standard guidelines                                                                  designed will provide timely
 Pharmaceuticals logistics                                                             availability of drugs
system
* MOU with service
providers at district level
. Ensure
emergency/essential
hospital care
* Provide key specialized
services
Rehabilitation and equipping                              Project reports and site visits    That rehabilitation and
of health centers                                                                       equipping will be done
.  (temporary) repairs to                                                               equipping will n
HCs                                                                                  according to plan
. construction of selected
new HCs
* equipping of HC
- provision of kits
-procurement of standard
equipment
* transport and
communications
. staff support and
operating costs
Hospital services                       1.7               Completion of hospital        That an action plan to
* transitional plan                                       assessment                    downsize hospital capacity will
be developed
Policy and system
development:                            0.9               Completion of training, studies  That studies, training,
*  studies, training,                                     and consultation              consultation will lead to
consultation                                                                         definition of clear options for
. human resource strategy                                                               policy development and system
design
Project implementation and
management                                                Supervision reports           That improved capacity for
*  administration                                                                       administration, monitoring and
. monitoring and                                                                        evaluation, together with
evaluation                                                                           technical assistance will build
.  capacity building/TA                                                                 the capacity of IHA/HO for
support                                                                              program management



Annex 2: Project Description
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
The context
In the violence of September 1999, East Timor was devastated. Over 75 percent of the population
were displaced during the disturbances, and returned to find many homes and most public buildings
- including health centers and hospitals - destroyed. Agriculture and commerce were disrupted,
and most infrastructure services - transport, ports, mail, telephones, banks - were no longer
functioning. The civil service had disintegrated: the exodus of Indonesians included most officials
with management and government experience, and senior health personnel. In this situation, the
IN stepped in to provide a transitional govemment, and start rebuilding a governance structure and
sectoral capacity. Initial efforts have focused on the central level and on establishing district
administration in each of the thirteen districts. During the emergency period international NGOs
and relief agencies have been providing for basic needs.
Restoring access to basic health services for the whole population is an urgent need and one for
which there is a high demand. This will be a main focus of the East Timor Health Sector
Rehabilitation and Development Program (ETHSP) in its first year, and comprises the first
component of the project. At the same time, it is important to start work immediately on
development of health policies and a health system suited to East Timor. This will be the second
focus of the ETHSP in the first year, and the second component. Given the lack of established
administrative and managerial capacity at central level, a third focus, and the third component, will
be to put these quickly in place.
Project Component 1 - Restoring Access to Basic Health Services US$ 10.0 million
Transitional strategy for service provision In East Timor, at present, health services are provided
by a large number of different entities and coverage of the population is uneven both in terms of
physical access and in terms of the services provided. This situation has arisen from a much needed
emergency response but cannot be considered adequate and has now become difficult to manage.
Therefore, a transitional strategy will be implemented during the period between the current
emergency situation and the development of the future health system. This strategy must:
*  be able to be rapidly implemented
*  ensure delivery of basic services to the maximum possible population
*  build capacity among East Timorese health staff
*  ensure more efficient use of resources
*  not interfere with the development of the future health system
*  take into account the principles developed by the East Timor Health Professionals Working
Group, including sensitivity to culture, religion and traditions of the East Timorese people.
It is recognized that many of the current service providers can and will play an important role in the
transitional strategy. There is, however, a need for some reorganization of services to ensure more
equitable coverage, more efficient use of resources, and a clear division of responsibilities along
with greater accountability. This reorganization should be achieved in a way that allows easier
coordination, monitoring and evaluation by the East Timor Interim Health Authority (IHA).



The strategy will include immediate acceleration of selected high priority activities:
immunization, TB control, micronutrient supplementation and targeted health promotion - all of
which are currently either non-existent or are reaching only a minority of the people. These
activities will not be vertical programs, but will be delivered through the health facilities and
integrated into a basic package of services for which there will be standard guidelines adapted to
the East Timorese context. The basic package will include health promotion activities,
management of childhood illness, management of pregnancy and childbirth, other reproductive
health services including family planning, and malaria control. These priority activities and basic
services address the most pressing health needs of East Timor. A heavy toll in maternal and child
mortality and morbidity is undoubtedly being exacted by unassisted pregnancy and childbirth, and
from childhood diseases. In addition to maternal and child health, much of which may be
improved by preventive services, the two most serious health problems are malaria and TB, for
both of which the project will provide treatment according to WHO guidelines. The program will
benefit from the experience of several agencies in these areas: WHO for standard guideline
development, UNICEF in support of immunization, UNFPA for family planning and reproductive
health, and CARITAS for TB control.
The NGOs, mainly international, who with the Church and religious charities, are the main service
providers are playing a crucial role in the health sector. The ETHSP recognizes their importance,
and seeks to build upon their current activities. Though the IHA will gradually take charge of
assuring health services, in the short term it will reach an agreement (MOU) with the service
providers at the district level. The agreement will ensure the provision of the basic package of
services to the maximum number of people in each district, and define the roles and responsibilities
of the IHA with regard to funding, standards, supervision and general oversight, and those of the
NGOs with regard to the services provided. The NGOs will be requested to present District Health
Plans, formulated in consultation with the District Health Committee which will form the basis of
the agreement. Capacity building will be an important element in the MOU, with NGOs being
asked to employ East Timorese staff and ensure their involvement in capacity strengthening
activities.
Standardization of treatment protocols and cost-containment will require limiting the range of
drugs available throughout the health services to a list of essential drugs designed especially for the
conditions of East Timor. This also makes it possible to improve procurement and prescribing.
Under this component Essential Drug Lists for different levels of the health services will be
developed along with Standard Treatment Guidelines (both with technical input from WHO)
These are vital for ensuring cost-effective treatment and for improving drug management.
Pharmaceutical logistic system This is an essential early element of the transition strategy, and
one that is critical to establishing the credibility of the health system. The broad objective is to re-
establish a viable procurement, storage, inventory and delivery system that will ensure a constant
supply of high quality, affordable, safe and effective essential drugs and medical supplies for the
entire population. The pharmaceutical component considered options for achieving this broad
objective, and the lessons from East Timor's own and international experience.
The previous Indonesian system was over-complicated, unresponsive and expensive; recreating it
is not recommended for East Timor. Essential features for the East Timor system are considered to
be: access to internationally competitive prices, integration of storage and distribution for all drugs
and health supplies into a single system, adequate drug financing and professional and
commercially sound management practices.
Internationally, reform of traditional public sector supply organizations has tried to introduce
commercial management practices into restructured medical stores or to contract out services. The



latter is not considered a viable option for East Timor in the short term as the private sector is
functioning at a very low level of activity. While not ruling this out in the future, for now the
choices to be made are within the confines of the public sector.
Two broad alternatives within the public sector were considered. The first was a traditional Central
Medical Store working as a department within the Ministry of Health. This arrangement has
typically failed in many, if not all, countries around the world. Following considerable discussion
of the reasons for failure, the first option was rejected. The second, and eventually agreed, option
is a legally established Autonomous Medical Store (AMS) with a mandate to supply the public
health system with essential drugs and supplies and to be managed following commercial practices
but within the public sector. It will establish a procurement and distribution system operating from
a single warehouse in Dili. The component will support the construction of the central warehouse.
The management will be responsible to a Board of Trustees (BOT) drawn from various
government and non-government organisations. The BOT will be responsible for overseeing the
running of the medical store and for guaranteeing its autonomy. This approach should provide
budgetary independence and rationalise decision making. It could eventually permit management
to hire and fire and pay salaries commensurate with market rates for attracting, retaining and
motivating good staff, although initially this aspect may be controlled by the IHA. This
autonomously managed but public pharmaceutical and medical supplies system, may reasonably be
expected to result in higher productivity, lower costs and a high level service.
For an interim period the management of the autonomous agency will be contracted out to a
company experienced in the procurement and logistics of pharmaceuticals for developing
countries. The contractor will set up and manage a financially self-sustaining, but non-profit,
autonomous supplies organization in East Timor. It will also train and develop local staff and
managers to assume full responsibility for the management within a three year period. The success
of the system will be monitored on the basis of indicators designed to measure drug availability in
health facilities and drug prices against international averages. Program implementation will be
measured against milestones established in the contract. Moreover, the contractor will be
responsible for procurement of pharmaceuticals. Prior to negotiations, UNTAET provided
assurances that adequate budgetary allocations will be made for funds required to finance the
purchase of drugs and that drugs will be procured by the managing contractor of the Autonomous
Medical Store.
Other key elements of the transitional strategy are the provision of laboratory and critical essential
specialized services (e.g. mental health), provision of staff and ensuring operating costs.
The first component also supports the rehabilitation and equipping of health centers, including
communications and transport. Minor and/or temporary repairs (and in a few cases major
reconstruction and rehabilitation) have been undertaken by the current NGO service providers in
some areas. There remains, however, a major need for rapid reconstruction of the physical
infrastructure. The program will focus, in the first year, on the construction of 25 new health
centers at sub-district level in areas where destruction and demand are greatest. A number of
additional health centers will also be built in the second year of the program (no more than 30).
However, the building needs will be constantly re-assessed.
Hospital services. While the reconstruction and rehabilitation will focus on facilities for primary
outpatient care, an assessment of inpatient capacity will also be conducted during the first year
along with the development of a transitional strategy for hospital services. This will include a plan
for the management of the national referral hospital in Dili following the withdrawal of the
International Committee of the Red Cross planned for mid-2001 and for the phased reduction of
inpatient beds where it is excessive.



In addition, the component will support the re-establishment of an administrative infrastructure
at the central and district levels. Buildings previously used by the provincial health administration
have all been destroyed. Rehabilitation of a building for the health authority is an urgent need in
order that the work of the ETHSP can be carried out efficiently. This work, which forms part
setting up the government, will be financed through the UNTAET Trust Fund. In terms of staffing,
the administrative staff for the system will be recruited as civil servants. Technical staff may be
recruited on contractual basis till the health policy is better defined. This will provide the health
system with the flexibility needed to meet the medium to long-term needs while ensuring
employment for the East Timorese staff.
There is a need to standardize the implementation of the basic package of services according to the
standard guidelines, as mentioned above. Some staff will be required to take on supervisory roles
that they did not have before. This will require a well focused but quite extensive training program
in the first year for staff currently providing health services and those being reintegrated into the
system. Similarly, many staff of the IRA are being asked to take on roles for which they have little
training and experience. Capacity strengthening in these two areas will, therefore be an important
part of this component.
Moreover, the project activities will be complemented by a small grant scheme component
(average cost about US$ 300,00 per year) to support stakeholder participation in health sector
issues. This activity will be supported by AusAID and will focus on activities other than health
service provision including community participation in health promotion activities. This
mechanism will allow some small local NGOs to contribute to the overall health program in areas
where they are best placed to do so. Part of this scheme will support the development and
strengthening of health professional organizations.
For all the activities above there will be an extensive process of consultation with service providers
and other key stakeholders. District Health Committees are being established, and may also be
formed at sub-district level also. These health committees will work closely with the civil
administration - including the District Health Officers in the District Administration offices, with
the other organizations being established to ensure community participation in government services
- including those being set up under the Community Empowerment Project, with the Church, and
take account of traditional community decision making arrangements.
Project Component 2-Health Policies and Health System Development US$ 1.8 million
Statements have been made and expectations of the health system raised that if followed could
profoundly affect the nature of the health system in East Timor. Pressure from the population and
the political community to adopt one or other orientation to health care can be expected to grow.
For these reasons there is an urgent need to equip stakeholders in the health sector with a better
understanding of policy options, and their long-term implications, and to start the policy debate.
This component must, therefore, start immediately although it will address issues related to the
medium to long-term development of the system. It has three sub-components: policy
development, system design and implementation, and human resource development
Policy development will require both technical inputs and capacity building. The policy issues
facing E. Timor are the same as those facing every other country in the world, though different
countries decide on different approaches. After discussion with the IHA it was agreed that policy
development should not take place piece-meal, but would take place within an overall framework
with four main dimensions. Some indication of the issues to be addressed within each dimension is
presented below:



Sector objectives and context. This would involve clear statements about the health sector and its
objectives. For example, is poverty reduction an objective influencing health service provision?.
Moreover, such a framework should address the broader determinants of health outcomes and
examine the role of other sectors and keep an oversight over policies in other sectors that will
influence the health outcomes. In addition, health policy development needs to examine broader
issues of political and administrative structure and how the broader government and civil service
context affects the health sector.
Another important area that needs to be addressed in policy development is the role of government.
More specifically, the health sector team will examine and, to the extent possible, define the role of
the government in the areas of regulation, delivery of public goods, financing versus the provision
of services, ensuring equity and so forth. Related issues will be the role of the private sector and
the health financing options to be adopted.
Another area that the health policy development will need to address is basic health services. In
addition to defining the basic package of services, the work will involve consideration of issues
like access versus quality; financing of basic health services; targeting; role of the private sector in
basic services; community participation, and planning and resource allocation. Finally, the health
policy work will address issues of health services that go beyond the basic package. For such
services a better understanding of the future demand, expenditure and financing is needed.
Development ol policies addressing the above issues will be achieved through a combination of
study tours to gain understanding of how decisions taken in other countries have affected the nature
and scope of their health systems, focused studies and training as well as an extensive consultation
process with the key stakeholders and beneficiaries of the future health system. Consultation is
essential. Although it would be technically possible for a group of experts to sit down and draft a
comprehensive health sector policy in a few weeks such a health policy would be unlikely to meet
the needs of East Timor, even in the short run, and in the absence of involving the participation of
key stakeholders would risk being rejected by those whom it is intended to serve. The IHA is
already actively planning the process, which is considered so important that the number of
stakeholder consultations will be monitored as an indicator of progress.
The second part of this component involves the design of a health system appropriate to implement
the agreed health policy and to the demographic, geographic and epidemiologic conditions of East
Timor. This will include the design of the administrative structure and of the supporting systems,
for example, for logistics, information, monitoring and evaluation. Although it may be possible to
resolve a number of important and urgent policy and design issues during the first year (or even
sooner), other health policy issues will require more time to resolve, and the piloting of different
options. In some cases (e.g., the role of the private sector), issues may need to be revisited as more
experience is gained and as the government's regulatory capacity and confidence expands.
Accordingly, it is anticipated that the policy and systems development process will be ongoing
throughout the period of the project. A critical aspect of this process will be dissemination of
policy decisions and the rationale for them.
Underpinning both policy development and system design will be legislation, health regulation and
survey data. Specialized technical input will be required for the conduct of a baseline demographic
and health survey and for the development of specific elements of the strategy, especially those that
require a multi-sectoral approach, for example, for nutrition.
The final sub-component of the medium to long-term system development is a human resource
strategy that takes into account the current profile of health staff and more importantly its future



configuration as determined by the health policy and system design. Clearly there are predictable
elements of human resource development that will need to be addressed before a comprehensive
strategy is developed, for example, the need to create opportunities for medical students part way
through their studies to complete them. In addition, career paths, salary scales and employment
policies for health workers need to be developed that do not repeat the weaknesses of the previous
system - overstaffing, multiple layers of bureaucracy, wages at levels that did not provide incentive
but encourage fringe benefits and unregulated private provision, and poor patient/provider
interaction.
Project Component 3 - Program Management Unit US$ 0.9 million
Since the project will cover most areas of the health sector, a health program management unit
(HIPMU) will be integrated within the Office of Health/IHA and will be designed to maximize its
capacity to manage and implement health programs. The IRA, or its East Timorese members, is
expected to become the future ministry/department of health. This is a key reason for including the
HPMU within the IHA structure, and for the emphasis on building administrative capacity. Critical
areas of capacity building are health planning and management, procurement and financial
management. Monitoring and evaluation of the Program will also be carried out under this
component. Consultant support to the HPMU will be funded under this component - indeed the
hiring of a procurement specialist and a financial manager is a condition of project effectiveness.
The "on the job" training will supplemented by formal training as needed.
In terms of specific functions, the H!PMU will be responsible for implementation of the program.
This includes: coordination of health service delivery; ensuring adequate progress in the
development of health policies and system design; monitoring and evaluation of the quality and
progress of program implementation; and ensuring that adequate follow-up action is taken for the
program to meet its development objectives. Moreover, the HPMU will also be responsible for
financial management and procurement for the program. The UNTAET central fiscal and
procurement authorities will play an oversight role in ensuring that these functions are carried out
in accordance with agreed policies and procedures.
The HPMU will also be responsible for ensuring the efficient procurement of drugs and medical
supplies (and their distribution) by the proposed Autonomous Medical Store and for the quality of
all aspects of the Health Sector Program. In addition, the HPMU will be responsible for reporting
and recording requirements and communications with IDA.
As regards staffing, the head of the HPMUI will be the Program Director who is also the senior
health professional in GPA. A senior East Timorese health professional will be designated as the
Deputy Program Director. The Directors will be accountable for progress of the Program in
accordance with the agreed implementation plan. The Program Director will be supported by key
technical specialists in the following areas: (a) health policy, regulation and legislation
development; (b) health service delivery; (c) management of physical infrastructure
(re)construction; (d) procurement; and (e) financial and administrative management.
In general, there will be a national counterpart for each appointed international staff to be trained to
take over the responsibilities in a reasonable period of time. A comprehensive staff development
and a training program will be implemented to train national staff on all aspects of health
administration.



Natrix of East Timor Health Sector Development Program for the Transitional Period 2000-2002
Overall Goal: Address immediate basic health needs of fhe populatfon of East rimor and develop the
health policies and a health system appropriate to the country
Program Objectives                                                                  Phases
YearI Year2 Year3
1. Restoring access to basic health services
a. Transitional strategy for sevice provision
i-accelerate implementation of selected high priority activities  X
(e.g., immunization, health promotion, TB control)
ii-further define and elaborate the basic package of health services  X
iii-develop and adopt an essential drug list and standard guidelines  X
iv-pharmaceuticals logistics system
-onstruction of new central warehouse                        X
-establishmentlmanageffentftraining contract                 X      X     X
v-phamiaceuticals/medical supplies/lab supplies                 X     X      X
vi-MOU with service providers at the district level (NGOs/DHA/others)  X  X
vii-ensure emergency/essential hospital care                    X     X
viii-provide laboratory and key specialized services            X     X      X
ix-staff support and operating costs                            X     X      X
b. Rehabilitation and equipping of health centers
i-(temporary) repairs to HCs                                    X
ii-construction of new HCs
-25 high priority sub-districts                              X
- additional sub-districts                                          x
iii-equipping of HC
-immnediate provision of kits                                X
-procurement of standard equipment                           X      X
iv-transport and communications                                 X     X
v-others                                                        X     X
c. Hospital services
i-transitional plan for five referral hospitals                 X     X
ii-assess overall capacity and physical status                  X
iii-prepare an action plan for reducing excess capacity         X     X
iv-construction/rehabilitation/equipping as needed                    X      X
v-staff support and operating costs                             X     X      X
d Re-establishment of administrative infrastructure
i-central level                                                 x
ii-district level                                               x
iii-maintenance                                                 X     X      X



Program Objectives                                                              Phases
Year 1 Year2 Year3
e. Capacity strengthening
i-for basic package                                          x      x
ii-for health adrrinistration and management                 X     X
f. Smallgrantscheme/communityparticipation
to support cormmunity partidpation, professional organizations and  X  X  X
selected services outside the basic package based on agreed guidelines
2. Health policies and health system development
a. Policy development
i-studies/TAN surveys                                        x      x
ii-baseline survey                                           X
iii-stakeholder consultation                                 x     X      X
iv-piloting/modification                                           X      X
v-evaluation/ consultation/consensus building                       X     X
vi-development of specific strategy components (e.g., nutrition)  X  X    X
vii-health regulation and legislation                        x      x     x
viii-capacity building                                       X      X     X
ix-dissemination                                             x      x     x
b. System designAmplementation plan
i-organizational stnuctureladministration                          X      X
ii-supporting systems
-logistics                                            X
-information system' monitoring and evaluation              X     X
-others                                                     X     X
c. Human resource development
i-HR strategy                                                X
ii-implementation of HR development program (including fellowships)  X    X
3. Program management unit
a. Project adrirnistration                                           X     X     X
b. Monitoring and evaluation                                         X     X     X
c. Capacity building/support to the health authonty                  X     X     X



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program
Local    Foreign        Tottl
Project Cost By Component a.                      uS-$ milion
Component 1. Restoring access to basic health     1.7          7.6           9.5
services
Component 2. Health policies and system           0.2          1.5           1.7
development
Component 3. Program management unit              0.2          0.7           0.9
Total Baseline Cost                                                         12.1
Physical Contingencies                         0.1          0.5           0.6
Price Contingencies                            0            0             0
Total Project Costs                               2.2          10.5         12.7
L-ocal    Foreign        Total
Project Cost by Category                        US $ million
Goods                                              0.3          2.2          2.5
Works                                              0.9          3.4          4.3
Services (including contract for AMS)              0.4          4.0          4.4
Training                                           0.4          0.7          1.1
Operating Costs                                    0.2          0.2          0.4
Total Project Costs                                2.2         10.5         12.7
A/ numbers may not add up due to rounding errors



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program
1. Analysis of HNP Project Objectives
East Timor is a post-conflict country that is completing a period of emergency assistance
and transitioning to a more development-oriented form of assistance. The country is
currently being administered by the UN Transitional Administration in East Timor
(UNTAET). The majority of Indonesian civil servants have left the territory, and public
records and original plans for building and utilities have been lost or destroyed. East Timor
is left with an infrastructure which is 70 percent destroyed, a population recovering from
conflict, half of which has been displaced, no functioning police force, a civil service that
lacks the majority of its senior staff and an extremely weak revenue base.
No Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) or Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) has
yet been prepared, and there has not yet been any Economic Sector Work (ESW). Strategic
work to date has included a multi-donor supported Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) in
November 1999. A "Health and Education Background Paper" was prepared in connection
with the JAM. This report identifies the immediate provision of health care and the
development of a new health policy as the health sector's two key priorities. According to
the report, achieving these objectives requires: 1) restoration of primary health care
services at the sub-district level, 2) re-establishment of inpatient services, 3) re-
establishment of a central health authority that will ultimately become the country's
ministry of health, and 4) health manpower capacity building. The report identifies two
key overall issues in implementing the provision of basic health services: 1) managerial
and technical inputs (doctors) will have to be provided from external sources during the
initial and much of the transitional phase, and 2) expansion and continuation of the
provision of basic health care is urgent, but the extent thereof should not preempt the
necessary and upcoming health reforms.
The three objectives of the East Timor Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development
Program (ETHSP) essentially parallel the recommendations of the JAM report: 1) ensuring
access to basic services, 2) policy and system development (including human resource
development), and 3) project implementation and management (including support to the
Interim Health Authority). It is likely that the sector's two main objectives, i.e., restoration
of basic services and the development of a new health policy, are achievable within the
time frame of the project. However, the task of health manpower capacity building and the
full implementation of the new health policy can be expected to extend beyond the period
of the project.
The project's policy framework addresses two key cross-cutting issues of risk pooling and
cost containment. The project contributes to broad risk pooling by supporting the
continuing operation of secondary and tertiary care facilities that do not currently charge
fees (but in which user fees may be gradually introduced depending on the country's health
policy). The project supports cost containment by focusing on the provision of a basic set
of primary health care services at the sub-district level within the context of an overall
district health strategy that includes a strong health education component. Many of the
issues that will be addressed in the health policy development component of the project
have additional implications for cost containment. Examples include: 1) the role of the



government in the health system, 2) inter-sectoral linkages in health, 3) user fees and
alternative forms of health financing, 4) basic health services package, 5) basic drugs list,
and 6) the role of the private sector.
2. Range of Alternatives Considered in Project Design
The ETHSP will rely initially on a traditional developing country health sector model in
which the government and (in this case) NGOs are the main provider of health care.
Although some provision of services by local NGOs is anticipated (mainly church-
sponsored clinics), it is not expected that either commercial (for-profit) providers or private
pharmacies will be operating initially' Although some private provision of health services
is expected in the future (possibly through side practices by government health workers),
the Timorese health professionals fear the development of an uncontrolled commercial
health sector before the government has developed the necessary regulatory systems.
The main alternative considered in project design would involve the government leaving
the provision of outpatient curative care to the private sector. Under this alternative,
government would focus exclusively on the provision of public health services (i.e.,
services whose social benefits differ from their private benefits together with a limited set
of highly cost-effective and mostly preventive services) and on the provision of secondary
and tertiary care. Under this alternative, curative outpatient care would be mainly provided
by church-sponsored clinics (about 20 of which are currently in operation) as well as by
village midwives and other private practitioners (most of whom initially would be former
government health workers).
This alternative was rejected mainly for the three reasons. First, the supply of services
would be inadequate initially to meet demand. Consequently, there would be a danger that
foreign commercial providers would establish practices with the intention of making lots of
money by exploiting consumer ignorance and limited government regulatory capacity (as
has occurred in Cambodia). The second reason is that it would be very difficult to provide
good-quality primary care under conditions in which preventive and curative care were
provided separately. Third, the poor would not enjoy the same degree of access to health
services under this alternative model. Although in principle it would be possible for the
government to provide targeted subsidies to the poor that would enable them to access
private services, the capacity to identify the poor effectively (targeting) and to administer
voucher or other demand-side financing schemes is not yet in place.
Another set of alternatives considered during project design involved the drug procurement
and distribution system. In addition to the alternative selected (i.e., an autonomously
managed public sector entity) the alternatives of resurrecting the former Indonesian system
and a purely private sector system were considered. The former Indonesian system, in
which drug procurement for the government health system was managed by a department
of the Indonesian Ministry of Health, was rejected because of its inefficiency and lack of
transparency. A purely private system was rejected because it was judged that the market
was too small (especially in the presence of widespread smuggling) to support an efficient
private enterprise performing the broad range of functions needed. There was also concern
that a purely private distribution system would be limited to the major towns and would act
as an agent for private pharmaceutical firms in promoting branded drugs. The
2 One notable exception is the private clinics and health insurance program administered by the
Coffee Plantation Cooperative.



establishment of an autonomously managed public sector entity, independent of the
Ministry of Health, was judged to be a good compromise between these two alternatives.
There are no surveys or other sources of information presently available that provide
reliable information on demand patterns. In the absence of such information it is difficult
to determine whether Timorese are prepared to utilize health services provided by
government facilities at the sub-district level sufficiently to justify the major investment
the project will make in rehabilitating them. The existence in most districts of church-
sponsored clinics, which mainly provide curative outpatient services and charge fees, could
imply that the population was not entirely satisfied with government-provided services in
the past. On the other hand, current plans are focused on the need to provide better-quality
services in government facilities than were provided previously. Clear evidence of this
intention is the decision to avoid over-staffing of primary care facilities so that the staff
working in them can be paid adequately.
The benefits provided by the project are likely to be equitably distributed among the
Timorese population. The staff of the Interim Health Authority, as well as Timorese
political leaders, have a strong commitment to health equity. Early health policy
documents have stressed the need to provide equal access to basic health services.
Although recent estimates are not available on the incidence of poverty in East Timor (the
1998 estimates were 36%), a majority of the population is believed to be below the poverty
line currently. Accordingly, the IRA does not plan to charge fees for health services
during the immediate future. The project's health policy component will support the
development and testing of effective targeting methods to enable the poor to be exempted
from fees if and when they are imposed in the future.
3. Assessment of Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability
It is hard to estimate the budget envelop for the system since it will depend, to a large
extent, on the policy decisions that will be made by the IRA. The recurrent costs for
operating the health system if no changes are made in the general policy direction of the
system are estimated to be US $7.8 million in year 1, $9.8 million in year 2 and $10.9
million in year 3. By comparison, the size of this year's overall governmental budget
(excluding UN costs) $31 million. If the overall budget increases by 5 percent annually
(i.e., to $32.6 million in year 1 and to $34.2 million in year 2 and $35.9 million in year 3),
recurrent health costs will absorb about 30 percent of the health budget by year 3.
Although these shares are considerably higher than those found in the region, a substantial
share (20-30%) of the recurrent health costs during the project period are due to the extra
costs of employing foreign doctors while Timorese complete their medical training abroad.
Additional savings may be expected from the cost containment measures (discussed above)
that will be considered in the project's health policy development component.
4. Quantitative Analysis (CBA and CEA)
The limited data currently available in East Timor (as a new country), as well as the
questionable reliability of some of the data available from Indonesian sources, makes it
3Some of the more reliable Indonesian data sources involve national surveys (e.g., DHS) in which
East Timor's population (less than one-half of one percent of Indonesia's total) is not very well
represented. This implies that East Timor-specific survey-based statistics have very large sampling
errors.



difficult to prepare empirically based cost-benefit analysis (CBA) or cost-effectiveness
analysis (CEA). The project's design, as a mixture of service delivery, policy and system
development, also complicates the use of quantitative project analysis techniques.
However, it may still be useful to provide order of magnitude estimates of the project's
economic benefits in relation to its costs.
4.1 Cost-benefit analysis
The ETHSP consists of three components: 1) restoring access to basic services, 2) health
policy and system development, and 3) project implementation and management. The
benefits and costs of the first two components are examined separately. The third
component is assumed to support the other two, and its costs are distributed between the
first two components in proportion to their total costs.
4.1.1 Restoring access to basic services
Even prior to the recent post-consultation violence the available evidence suggests that the
health status of East Timor's population was relatively poor, both compared to the rest of
Indonesia and to other countries in the region. For example, the UN estimates that the
under 5 mortality rate for East Timor was 201 during the period 1995-99, while average
life expectancy at birth was only 47.5.4 Other estimates suggest that the under 5 mortality
rate is about 124 and average life expectancy at birth is 55-58 years. According to the 1997
Indonesia DHS (but presumably based on a very small sample for East Timor), the
contraceptive prevalence rate was 27 percent (compared to 57% for all Indonesia) and the
TFR was 4.43 (compared to 2.78 for all Indonesia). Subsequent to the violence, most of
East Timor's doctors (130 of 160), as well as most of its senior health administrators,
returned to Indonesia. Much of the country's health infrastructure was also seriously
damaged or destroyed, along with most of its equipment. Although emergency medical
assistance is currently being provided by more than a dozen international NGOs, it is
anybody's guess whether the territory's current health status is better or worse than it was
before the post-consultation violence.
Despite ambiguities about the current level of health status indicators, it is clear that in the
absence of continuing donor assistance (initially, in the form of relief assistance from
several international NGOs) the availability of even basic medicines and supplies,
including vaccines, would be severely limited. Although many nurses, midwives and other
staff remain, the country's health system would clearly cease to function in the absence of
the assistance provided through the ETHSDP.
Although it is difficult to quantify the impact of a collapsed health system on the health
status and social welfare of East Timorese, it is possible to get some idea by considering
the vulnerability of its population to a number of health problems, based on service
delivery statistics from the former health system (Table 1). In addition to the usual
childhood diseases that could be expected to take a terrible toll in the absence of
immunizations and good-quality primary health care for children under 5, the country's
two most serious health problems are malaria and TB. Both of these diseases would likely
take a heavy toll in lives and morbidity among both prime working age adults (15-44) and
school-age children (5-14) in the absence of a functioning health system. Although these
4The fact that the 1997 Indonesia DHS obtained an estimate of only 49 for the under 5 mortality
rate illustrates the unreliability of the available health data for East Timor.



two age groups have fewer health problems and consequently use the health system less
often than other age groups, the absence of a functioning health system would clearly
affect them as well. In 1998, for example, prime working age adults (15-44) made 538
outpatient visits per 1,000 to government health facilities (health centers and hospitals, net
of referrals) while school-age children made 583 outpatient visits per 1,0005
Table 1. Diseases Observed in New Outpatients at Public Health Centers in East Timor
Age of new outpatients
5-14           15-44                   45+
Diarrhea                             26.8             17.3                 27.6
Dysentery                             4.8             3.7                   5.2
TB (confirmed)                        0.0              4.0                  8.7
Clinical TB                           0.3            20.8                  44.0
Leprosy                               0.2              1.8                  2.1
Malaria (confirmed)                  11.4             8.9                   9.6
Clinical malaria                     53.6            41.1                   0.0
Pneumonia                             1.8             0.9                   1.4
Other                                 1.0              1.5                  1.3
Total                               100.0            100.0                100.0
Source: Indonesian government health service statistics
East Timor's GDP was estimated to be US$ 431 in 1996 (compared to Indonesia's national
average at the time of US$ 1,153). Since it is believed to have declined by 40-45% in 1999,
the current level of GDP per capita is probably around US$ 250. Since East Timor's
economy is predominantly agricultural (and will continue to be during the period of the
project), the significant loss of manpower (including the time of family members caring for
the sick) that would occur from these and other diseases would have a significant adverse
impact on economic output. If the health services provided by the project improved overall
labor productivity by only 5 percent annually, this would translate into annual benefits of
more than US$ 10 million (Table 2).
In addition to agricultural output, the value of non-agricultural home production not
included in GDP (in which women and children probably play the major role) is also likely
to be adversely affected by a collapsed health system. If the value of home production is
equal to only 20 percent of GDP and labor productivity in home work is increased by only
10 percent by the project's health services (given that labor is the main input in home
production), there would be an additional benefits of more than US$ 4 million annually
(Table 2).
In addition, improving the health of school-age children and their teachers ought to
significantly increase the returns to the substantial investments in education that are
projected to occur during the life of the project.6 According to the JAM reports, external
financing of East Timor's schools is expected to be US$14.8 million in 2000, US$25.6
million in 2001, and US$17.4 million in 2002. Even if the gains in educational productivity
5 The comparable figures are 1,260 outpatient visits per 1,000 among children 0-4 and 1,446
outpatient visits per 1,000 adults age 45 and over.
6 In addition to morbidity-related effects, a zero return would be obtained from cumulative
investments in the schooling of children who die before they enter the work force.



due to the health project are only 10 percent, this would translate into additional benefits of
US$ 1.5-2.6 million per year (Table 2).
These are admittedly crude estimates of the annual net economic benefits from the project,
but their magnitude is impressive (US$ 16-20 million annually). When properly discounted
and compared to the discounted annual costs of the project they imply a cost-benefit ratio
of about 0.6 (Table 2).' Moreover, the estimates in Table 2 do not include an imputed
economic value for the substantial (but difficult to estimate) additional welfare gains, due
to reduced pain and suffering and losses of life, that would accrue to the population from
reduced morbidity and mortality.
Table 2. Benefit-cost Analysis of Project's Service Delivery Component
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Totals
Benefits (US$):
GDP                            10687500    11951404    13364777        36003681
Home production                 4275000      4780562      5345911      14401472
Education                       1482100      2559800      1736300       5778200
Total benefits                  16444600    19291765    20446987       56183353
Discounted total benefits      16444600    17537968    16898337        50880905
Costs (US$):
Recurrent cost                  7825000      9848000    10980000       28653000
Capital cost                    1274900      1430300      1004200       3709400
Total costs                     9099900    11278300    11984200        32362400
Discounted total costs          9099900    10253000       9904298      29257198
Discounted net social           7344700      7284968      6994039      21623708
benefits
Cost-benefit ratio                                                      0.575013
Source: See text and footnote #5
4.1.2   Health policy and system development
This component of the project has three sub-components: 1) policy development, 2) system
design/implementation, and 3) human resource development. Since these are basically
investment activities, their benefits can be expected to extend beyond the three-year life of
the project. Their main effect is potentially to reduce the cost of providing a given level
and quality of health services. In the policy component, for example, many of the issues
that will be addressed by the project have the potential to reduce the social cost of
providing health services. One example is user fees. In the absence of user fees, the
government has to rely more heavily on tax financing of health services. Since the
administrative and distortionary costs of financing health services through taxes are likely
to be quite high in East Timor, use of alternative forms of financing could be associated
with significantly lower social costs.. For example, if the social cost of collecting
additional tax revenue is as much as one dollar per dollar of additional revenue raised (i.e.,
7 The assumptions used to obtain the estimates in Table 2, in addition to those already provided in
the text are as follows: GDP per capita is assumed to grow at 10 percent per annum from a year 1
value of US$250; the project's capital cost is assumed to be equal to 10 percent of the cumulative
project investment costs in each year; the 1998 population of East Timor is assumed to be 855,000
and to grow at 1.66% per annum; and the discount rate is assumed to be 10 percent.



higher than estimates for the US but about the same as estimates for Sweden), each dollar
of financing through user fees would be associated with real savings of one dollar. In
addition, user fees can be expected to reduce social losses due to moral hazard (i.e., the
economic burden of excessive consumption due to pricing at less than marginal cost).
To get an order-of-magnitude idea of the potential benefits from user fees alone, assume
that marginal cost pricing were applied to only one-fourth of the recurrent costs of the
health system (Table 2). This would reduce tax financing by approximately US$1.5-2.5
million dollars annually and produce an equivalent economic benefit in only one year (due
to the reduction in deadweight loss of an equivalent amount). If user fees also reduce loss
from moral hazard for these services by an amount equal to 10 percent of recurrent costs,
this would contribute additional economic benefits of US$ 0.6-1.0 million dollars per year.
In other words, the social gains from only one policy reform might produce annual
economic benefits of the same order of magnitude as the project's entire expenditure on the
policy component. The potential social benefits from this component of the project are
indeed large relative to its cost.
The net benefits of the project's investment in developing system capacity are also
substantial. For example, in the case of the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution
system, the World Bank and WHO have estimated that as much as 70 percent of all drug
expenditure when these functions are performed inefficiently.8 Such losses occur from a
variety of inefficiencies, including: ordering unneeded drugs or the wrong quantities,
paying higher than necessary prices, losses due to frequent stockouts and to holding drugs
beyond their expiration date, and losses due to pilferage. In the current project, spending on
drugs is projected to cost US$ 2.6 million in year 1. If drugs were procured and distributed
less efficiently, the cost could be as much as 70 percent higher (US$1.8 million) in year 1
alone. Clearly, the project's investment in an efficient drug procurement and distribution
system has a low cost-benefit ratio.
The economic gains from the project's human resource sub-component are also potentially
quite large. For example, each family doctor trained who is able to replace a foreign doctor
produces a savings to the health system of US$ 20,256 per year (i.e., the difference
between the project's estimated annual cost of a foreign family doctor, US$ 22,800, and
that of a Timorese doctor, US$2,544). The discounted value of these annual savings over a
ten-year period (assuming a discount rate of 10%) would be US$ 124,464. Of course, this
assumes that the Timorese doctors trained abroad return to practice in the Timorese health
system.
4.1.3 Project implementation and management
This component of the project provides both recurrent and capital assistance to the
country's Interim Health Authority (expected eventually to become the country's Ministry
of Health). For the purposes of benefit-cost analysis, the costs of this component are
allocated to the other two components (and sub-components) proportionately (according to
their costs). Since the benefits do not change, the effect of this component is to raise
marginally the project's cost-benefit ratios above what they would otherwise be.
4.2 Cost-effectiveness Analysis
8 The World Bank, Better Health in Africa, 1994, p. 76 ff.



Much of the project's resources will be used to support a package of mainly primary health
services, most components of which have been shown to be cost-effective in a variety of
settings. The IHA has already prepared documents that highlights key services to be
provided in the first phase of the program. These include: health education and promotion,
maternal and child health (including emergency referrals for obstetric complications), other
reproductive health services, TB and malaria control among others.
5. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
5.1 Sensitivity Analysis
Since project benefits are found to exceed project costs in all years, varying the discount
rate has no effect on the qualitative conclusions that are obtained from the cost-benefit
analysis. For example, increasing the discount rate from 10 percent to 12 percent would
not significantly change the cost-benefit ratio in the analysis of the project's service
delivery component (Table 2). However, if the productivity enhancing effects of the
project's health services were assumed to be only half as large as in the analysis presented
in Table 2, the cost-benefit ratio would rise to 1.20 and the service delivery component of
the project would appear no longer to be desirable on economic grounds. However, as
mentioned above, the analysis in Table 2 does not include any imputed value for the
reduced pain and suffering and loss of life that would be directly attributable to the project-
provided health services. If this were included, it is likely that the project would again
appear to reflect a socially desirable use of resources.
5.2 Risk Analysis
The main risk to the project's financial sustainability would arise from the possibility that
economic growth would be slower than anticipated. In this case, the country's rapidly
growing population will increase the demand for health services while the government's
ability to provide them will stagnate. Under these conditions both access and quality are
likely to decline while the distribution of benefits would be likely to become increasingly
skewed toward higher income groups (as is typically the case in other under-funded
government health systems). Alternatively, the same scenario might instead lead to
continuing heavy dependence on donor financing of recurrent health system costs. On the
other hand, the project's policy development component will consider many issues that
have the potential to reduce the cost of the public health system, including: 1) the overall
role of the government in the health system, 2) the role of the private sector, and 3)
alternative financing measures (e.g., user fees, community financing, health insurance).
6. Institutional Capacity
Institutional capacity is currently very limited in East Timor. Most of the senior
government officials, including most doctors and senior health officials, were Indonesian
and have since left the territory. However, the IRA (which is expected soon to become the
territory's Central Health Authority and ultimately the country's Ministry of Health) will
be provided with substantial resources for capacity development through the project.
Moreover, the Interim Health Authority is expected to continue to function under
UNTAET for the first two years of the project, during which it will continue to receive
substantial long-term technical assistance. Accordingly, it is not anticipated that the limited
Timorese institutional capacity at this time will be a serious constraint to the
implementation of the project.



7. Contribution to Poverty Alleviation
No post-conflict poverty assessment (or a poverty profile) is yet available for East Timor.
However, given its predominantly rural population, predominantly agricultural economy
and weak rural infrastructure, it is likely that most poverty is rural and concentrated in the
agricultural sector. Under these conditions, poor health is likely to be a very serious
constraint on the income-earning potential of the poor (whose main source of income is
their own manual labor). In East Timor, poor adult health is largely a consequence of
malaria and TB, both of which can be addressed through an effective and broadly
accessible primary health system. By strengthening this system the project is likely to
contribute significantly to the labor resources of the poor and thereby to contribute to the
alleviation of income poverty even in the short run. At the same time, the improved health
of poor school children that will result from the project will raise their learning
productivity and contribute additionally to poverty alleviation over the longer term.
Finally, the increased access to good-quality primary health care will effectively
supplement the cash incomes of the poor, resulting in substantial improvements in their
welfare beyond what is registered in usual poverty measures.
8. Environmental Impact
Malaria and dengue fever are both highly endemic in East Timor. However, the health
system does not plan to use mosquito vector control measures (e.g., spraying of pesticides)
that would be likely to have adverse effects on the environment. Instead, other measures
will be used that have less serious environmental effects (e.g., treated bed nets, health
education). An additional environmental concern is the disposal of medical waste. The
project will provide hospitals with incinerators that will be used to dispose of their own
medical waste as well as that of nearby health centers.
9. Economic Performance Indicators
In the short-term, the project is design assumes that that good-quality primary health care
services can be provided through a government health system and NGOs and that the
population will use these services if they are available. Although the quality of care can
and should be directly measured and monitored, two economic indicators that have been
shown in other settings to be very good proxies for quality in primary care systems are: 1)
"the average salary levels of medical personnel (adjusted for changes in consumer prices),"
and 2) "the proportion of pharmaceuticals and supplies in the total budget." The reason that
these indicators are so quality-sensitive is the tendency of government-managed systems to
employ more health workers than they can afford to pay adequately and to reduce non-
personnel expenditures to free up funds to pay the salaries of their numerous employees.
The result is under-paid health workers who lack the incentive to provide good-quality
care, as well as acute shortages of necessary complementary inputs.
When salaries shrink and medicines and supplies become scarce, consumers tend to avoid
public health facilities and shift their demand for health care to the private sector. Since
government-managed facilities nevertheless tend to retain their staff when faced with
declining utilization, reductions in utilization are typically manifested in declining labor
productivity. Therefore an additional economic indicator that is sensitive to quality is the
"number of visits to primary care facilities per primary care provider (i.e., doctors, nurses,
midwives)."



Poor quality in the hospital sector also tends to lead to lower utilization of inpatient
services, particularly in secondary hospitals (since quality tends to decline last in tertiary
care facilities). The under-utilization of secondary hospitals is usually most evident in
their occupancy rates, which often hover around 20 percent in poorly funded health
systems. Therefore, the "occupancy rate in secondary hospitals" ought to be a good
economic indicator for inpatient services.
10. Overall Project Justification
An important feature of the ETHSP is that it will involve a Sector-Wide Approach
(SWAP) to donor assistance. The main benefit of a SWAP in the current context is that it
will not overburden the limited capacity of East Timor's Interim Health Authority. In fact
it should help to free up staff time to deal with important policy development issues as well
as to benefit from capacity building resources provided by the project. A secondary benefit
of a SWAP is that it will help IHA avoid a situation in which individual donors channel
assistance to individual programs so that the system becomes a series of vertical programs
with many duplicative functions (e.g., training, logistics, MIS, M&E).
Although the service delivery and financing approaches adopted by the project (i.e., direct
provision by the government, tax and donor financing) are fairly conventional by
developing country standards and appropriately raise questions, the fact that this aspect of
the project has not been preceded (and could not have been) by a systematic policy
development process makes it difficult to strike out in more innovative directions at this
time. Instead, the project will support such a policy development process, at the end of
which the Timorese government is likely to make significant modifications to the service
delivery and financing system that is initially put into place.



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NA



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Procurement Assessment
The UNTAET has recently established a central procurement office that deals with the UNTAET
Trust Fund financed procurements. This central procurement unit is supported by the United
Nations Operational Services (UNOPS) to develop a government procurement unit within the
administrative services component. However, to date, no procurement capacity has been
established in the sectoral units that are likely to evolve into departments or ministries in the future.
Since these units will need to conduct their own procurements, and given the technical nature of
some of these issues the HPMU needs to establish some procurement capacity within the Office of
Health at IJNTAET. This capacity who will consist of a qualified international consultant will
assist the Project Director in all steps of procurements including the preparation of procurement
documents, publishing advertisements, preparation of short lists, evaluation of bids, preparation of
contracts and so forth. The consultant will also ensure that the Bank Guidelines for the
procurement under the project are followed and will prepared reports needed for the supervision
mission. The procurement officer will also work closely with an East Timorese counterpart who
will be identified by the Project Director. This will facilitate transfer of skills and capacity building
efforts. Moreover, procurement training will be conducted as part of the Project Latnch
workshops.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the Grant will follow in all aspects the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999, for Goods and Works and the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
For procurement of works, goods and services under the Grant, the Recipient will use: The Bank's
latest Standard Bidding Documents for ICB procurements, Standard Form of Consulting Contracts
and Requests for Proposals (dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999), and Standard Bid
Evaluation Report Forms.
Inmplementation
A procurement officer will be recruited to support the Project Director in the implementation of the
agreed procurement plan. The appointment of the Project Procurement Off cer is a condition of
effectiveness, as well as adoption of a procurement plan acceptable to IDA.
A procurement agent will be used during the first three months to purchase the basic office
equipment (computers, furniture, supplies, photocopier) and vehicles in order to expedite the
project start-up.
Advertisement
A General Procurement Notice will be published in the May 31, 2000 issue of Development
Business announcing goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting eligible suppliers,



contractors and consultants to express interest and to request expressions of interest and to request
any complementary information from the HPMU (UNTAET - GPA/HO). In addition, specific
procurement notices will be published in newspapers and/or Development Business, depending
upon the value of the individual requirements.
Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) .Medical equipment, non-medical equipment, vehicles,
communications equipment, etc. which are estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more per
contract will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. Total value of goods procured through ICB will account for about 64
percent of total goods value (not to exceed US$ 1.6 million equivalent).
International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for equipment to cost less
than US$ 200,000 (i.e. computers, vehicles and motorcycles, office supplies, equipment and
furniture). These contracts will be awarded after solicitation and evaluation of at least three written
price quotations from suppliers in at least two different countries, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. The total value of IS is estimated to cost no more than US$ 500,000 or
equivalent.
National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items including spare parts, office supplies, medical
supplies and selected equipment costing less than US$ 50,000 per contract may be purchased on
basis of shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Aggregate amount of national shopping is estimated to cost less
than or equal to US$ 200,000 or equivalent.
Procurement from United Nations Agencies (IAPSO) will also be used for contracts estimated to
cost less than US$ 50,000 or equivalent or less with an aggregate value not exceeding US$ 200,000
equivalent will also be used. This will be used for small scale procurements that may not be
feasible through national shopping due to limited local markets. This will includes goods like
computers, other non-medical equipment, supplies, consumables, and spare-parts.
Civil Works
Limited International Bidding (LIB). Given the emergency nature of the situation, LIB procedures
will be used for contracts for civil works which are estimated to cost US$ 250,000 equivalent or
more per contract. Estimated total value for this procedure will not exceed US$ 3.9 million or
equivalent.
Small Works Contracts (SW). SW will involve contracts for less than US$ 50,000 (aggregate not to
exceed US$ 400,000 or equivalent) for building of small units for village health workers and
certain aspects of the construction work that may be handled by local workers (e.g., painting).
Procurement of small scale works will be under lump sum fixed price contract awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained by at least 3 qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation and according to the Bank Guidelines. The invitation would include a detailed
description of the works including basic specifications, the required completion date, a form of
agreement acceptable to IDA and relevant drawings where applicable. The award will be made to
the contractor offering the lowest price quotation for the work and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. Moreover, the capacity of local counterparts is
sufficient to carry out this work.



There are no civil works planned that may cost greater than or equal to US$ 50,000 or equivalent or
less than US$ 250,000 or equivalent.
Consulting Services
The following procurement procedures will be used:
1. Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for the key activities
including: design and supervision of the construction of health centers, baseline survey and
information, education and communication (IEC) materials and campaigns for health
promotion activities. The total value is estimated not to exceed US$ 2.4 million or equivalent.
About 55 percent of consulting services will be procured using the QCBS procedures.
2. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for selection of an auditor to carry out
audit of the Project. The value of contracts awarded through LC selection will not exceed US$
30,000 or equivalent.
3. Individual Consultants (IC) procedures will be used for contracting individuals to provide
services for the following areas: policy and legal issues; essential drugs and standard treatment
guidelines, development of essential drug kits, and IEC materials for health promotion. IC will
also be used for technical assistance in the following areas - health planning and policy
development; health services delivery, implementation of physical construction of health
facilities; procurement; finance and administration. These consultants will be hired as part of
the HJPMU and the Interim Health Authority. Individual consultants will be selected under the
procedures specified in Section V of the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants on the basis of their qualifications through comparison with other qualified
candidates. The total cost of this category will not exceed US$ 1.4 million (about 32% of the
total consulting services)..
4. Single Source Selection (SS). SS will be used to hire a procurement agent to handle the
purchase, consolidation and shipping of the goods required for the start-up purchases and
contracting of the UN Agencies (WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF) to provide technical support to
the program. The services to be contracted from UN agencies relate to technical support to the
Interim Health Authority and Office of Health at UNTAET in the areas of: delivery of child
health services, standard treatments and protocols, training modules and reproductive health
services. In addition, SS may be used to higher consultants for highly specialized policy or
legal assignments. These contracts are estimated to cost less than or equal to US$ 100,000
with a total estimated cost that will not exceed: US$ 600,000 or equivalent (about 14% of the
total cost of consulting services).
Training
Expenses for staff training will be disbursed with prior approval of IDA based on semi-annual
training plans. Training costs will cover in-service training for basic health services as well as
health administration and management for health works, fellowships, and workshops. The total
cost of the training activities will not exceed US$ 1.1 million or equivalent.
Operating costs
This includes operating costs of the HPMU including per diem for HPMU staff and office
consumables (but excluding salaries), and the cost of Project launching and planning workshops.



This will be procured based on the transitional government procedures, acceptable to IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA's prior review of procurement will cover the following:
a) master lists of equipment, packaging of contracts and updated cost estimates;
b) Goods: all ICB; and the first two packages of IS and NS and all procurements through the
United Nations Agencies.
c) Works: all LIB and the first two package of SW;
d) Consultants: terms of reference for all consulting assignments; all consulting contracts costing
more than US$ 100,000 for firms and 50,000 for Individuals, contracts for assignments of a
critical nature9, as reasonably determined by IDA; and all single source contracts.
Disbursement
The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 15 months from date of effectiveness.
Disbursement will start using traditional disbursement methods - direct payments or Statement of
Expenditure reimbursements etc. All disbursements against contracts for goods costing US
200,00 or more and for works costing US$ 250,000 or consulting contracts for firms costing US$
100,000 equivalent or more and individual consultants costing US$ 50,000 equivalent or more will
be fully documented and all single source contracts. All other contracts will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditures. The documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be
retained by the HPMU for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation UNTAET will establish a Special Account
denominated in US$ under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA with a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 700,000. The
replenishment applications should be submitted by HPMU and/or UNTAET/CFA on a monthly
basis or when the balance of the SA is 20 percent of the initial amount, whichever comes first. The
SA will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management Assessment
The UNTAET Financial Office in Dili is currently responsible for all accounting and reporting
activities. There is a proposal to establish a Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) to assume financial
management responsibilities of UNTAET. The financial management functions of CFA are being
established and the staff are being recruited. Therefore, the basic institutional framework is
present to establish sound intemal control procedures and accounting and reporting arrangements.
Most of the staff currently on board need to be trained on the Bank disbursement procedures. A
senior Disbursement Specialist form the World Bank visited Dili at the end of March and
conducted a training seminar on IDA disbursement procedures. However, as most of the financial
staff are still not recruited, additional training workshops will be needed. Subject to the above, it is
the assessment of the Joint mission that JNTAET is taking adequate steps to meet the minimum
standards of financial management and accountability as required by IDA. The following
paragraphs describe the financial management arrangements expected to be put in place for
9 This includes assignments that may have significant implications for the future development and design of
the program.



accounting, reporting and auditing of project expenditures. IDA and UNTAET/ CFA will have to
work closely in the coming months to establish policies, procedures, staffing and systems to
implement the agreed FM arrangements.
Proposed Financial Management Arrangements.
The objectives of the FM arrangements are summarized below:
(a) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of the TFET
funded activities;
(b) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of special
account for TFET funded activities;
(c ) to establish a Financial Management Capacity at the OH/IHA to manage effective
and economic delivery of health services; and
(d) to establish accounting and reporting capacity at the District Health Administration to
ensure that resources are used for purposes intended.
Accounting Organization and Staffing.. A Financial Manager (FM) with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA will be appointed within the Health Program Management Unit
(HPMU). The HPMU will have primary responsibility for all financial management activities of
the Program. The FM will report to the Program Director. The UNTAET/CFA will provide overall
guidance and supervision to the FM in ensuring that functions are carried out in accordance with
the agreed guidelines. The FM will be assisted by sufficient staff to carry out planning, budgeting,
accounting and reporting functions for the Program. To carry out financial and accounting
functions at the level of District Health Administrations, accountant/bookkeepers will be appointed
if the work volume justifies. The appointment of the Financial Manager is a condition of
effectiveness.
Funds Flow. The funding sources for the Program will come from the Trust Fund for East Timor
(TFET) (for investment costs) and the UNTAET Trust Fund (for operating costs). The FM will be
responsible for requesting disbursement from the TFET for agreed Project activities. The
disbursement requests will be routed through the designated UNTAET official authorized to sign
applications to withdraw funds from the Grant Account established for the Project. Based on
authorized requests to disburse funds, IDA will withdraw and pay funds directly to a supplier or
transfer funds to a Special Account to be managed by UNTAET/CFA under agreed procedures.
The disbursement procedures for UNTAET TF allocated to the Program will be determined by
UNTAET/CFA.
It is likely that the Project funds will flow from IDA directly to suppliers and contractors of the
Project components subject to International Competitive Bidding procedures e.g., civil works,
procurement of equipment, management of the Autonomous Medical Store (AMS) (which
management includes training and capacity building at the AMS and the procurement of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for the Program). For all other expenditures funded by the
TFET, a Special Account will be established with a bank acceptable to IDA under the control of
the UNTAET/CFA to channel TFET funds. All operating costs (except those associated with the
HPMU as specified in the Grant Agreement) will be funded from the 1NTAET TF. Purchase of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies will also be funded from the UNTAET TF. The proposed
fund flow arrangements are given in Chart I. During negotiations, the assurances from UNTAET
were provided that adequate budgetary allocations will be madeforfunds required to finance
purchase of drugs and operating costs and that drug procurement will be carried out by the AMS
contractor.



Planning & Budgeting. The fund flow arrangements described above requires careful planning
and budgeting to ensure that financial resources are available for project implementation. The
preparation of the budget plans for investment and operating cost components will be the
responsibility of the HPMU. The budgets will be prepared for the following categories: (a)
investment costs and any operating costs of the PMU to be financed by the TFET; (b) purchase of
drugs by the AMS and financed by UNTAET TF; and (c) operating cost for health facilities and
administrative structure (hospitals, clinics, NGOs and church clinics) financed by IJNTAET TF.
The budgets should be prepared in such detail to allow meaningful monitoring of Project
implementation. The investment cost budgets should be coordinated with the procurement plans
and supported by a cash forecast for at least three months. The budgets for the DHAs and service
providers should be similarly coordinated with the proposed memorandum of understanding
(MOUs) to be signed with the service providers.
Accounting and Reporting. The primary responsibility for maintaining accounting records for the
project will be with the FM /HPMU. The HPMU with the guidance of the CFA will establish
appropriate accounting and internal control procedures for authorizing payments, recording of all
project related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and preparation of annual financial
statements for external audit. The accounting system should be designed to maintain separate
project accounts for TEFT funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
The FM/HPMU will ensure that quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and
actual expenditures are prepared for the Project. The draft formats of the reports was agreed at
negotiations. The financial reports shall be prepared and submitted to IDA no later than 60
days following the end of the quarter.
Auditing. The INTAET/CFA will be responsible to carry out internal auditing of the project
activities. The PMU will prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited
by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an
opinion on the financial statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals
from the grant based on statements of expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will
appointed on terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management of the AMS. The proposed AMS is to be established as an independent
entity and will be operated under commercial principles. The establishment and management of
the AMS will be contracted to a commercial contractor. The establishment of adequate financial
management of AMS will be part of the terms of reference of the contractor.



HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUNDS FLOW
East Timor Trust                                                UN Trust Fund
Fund (TFET)
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                                    Recurrent Costs
Equipment                                                          Drugs
Consulting TA                                                   Operating Coasts
TET SA        UNTAET
J   | Darwin  |    |Darwin
|Cnrctotors_/ Suppliers |                                              Drug Supplier
Central Fiscal Authority
Health Project Management Unit
Dili
DRA          NGO          Supplier



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            Procurement Method             Total Cost
(including
._________ _  IC B    LIB      Other       Contingencies)
1. Works                        0.0       3.9          0.4       4.3
2. Goods (including             1.6       0.0          0.9       2.5
transport)
3. Services (T.A.)              0.0       0.0          4.4       4.4
4. Training                     0.0       0.0          1.1        1.1
5. Operating Costs              0.0       0.0          0.4       0.4
Total                        1.6       3.9          7.2      12.7



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                        Selection Method                          Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                                   (inciuding
contingencies)
QCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS       CQ       Other
A. Firms                    2.4      0.0        0.0      0.03    0.0       0.6           3.0
B. Individuals              0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     1.4       0.0           1.4
Total   2.4      0.0         0.0      0.03    1.4       0.6           4.4



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
JEixpenditure000     X  Contract Value  Procuroment         Contracs Subject to
C o   0i:    L A(Thrsholdi)     Method              Prior Review
US $ thousands                           US $ millions
1. Works
> US$ 250,000            LIB               US$ 3.9
< US$ 50,000             SW             First Two Packages
(US $ 50,000)
2. Goods
> US$ 200,000           ICB                US$ 1.6
< US$ 200,000             IS            First Two Packages
(US$ 300,000 M)
<US$ 100,000             NS             First Two Package
(US$ 20,000)
< US$ 50,000        UN Agencies             ALL
(US$ 0.2 M)
3. Services (T.A.)
>US$ 100,000 (Finns)   QCBS                US$ 2.4
> US$ 50,000 (Ind.)     LCS
CQ                US$ 0.7
All SS                   SS                US$ 0.6
Total value of contracts subject to            9.6 Million (75%)
prior review
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:
One every 4 month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Epio.ndtip. 0009*~y        Amount in U$ntilon          t~n ncng P000#0~g
Goods (including transport)          2.3                       100%
Consultant Services and              4.2                       100%
Studies
Civil Works                         4.2                      100%
Training, fellowships and             1.0                      100%
workshops
Operating costs                       0.4                      100%
Unallocated                         0.6
Total                          12.7



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
7ProjectSchedule  P:: 0      ;   70 7  ;;lManned      Actu
(tfinlo PCD
Time taken to prepare the project
(months)
First IDA mission (identification)                       02/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure            03/20/2000        03/20/2000
Negotiations                           04/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness          06/30/2000
Prepared by: Office of Health, UNTAET/GPA and the Interim Health Authority, East Timor



Bank staff/mission members who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciaiy
Fadia Saadah                           World Bank, Senior Health and Population Specialist
Janet Nassim                           Operations Officer
Jorge Torgal                           Consultant, Gulbenkian Foundation
Malcolm Clark                          Consultant, Pharmaceuticals Logistics
Voltaire Andres                        Consultant, Management and Leadership
James Knowles                          Consultant, Health Policy
Carlos de Soza                         Consultant, Procurement
Nigel Wakeham                          Consultant, Architect
Lindsay Sales                          Consultant, Health Planning
Jocelyn Grace                          Consultant, Community Participation
Natacha Medan                          World Bank, Operations Officer
Wijaya Wikrema                         World Bank, Financial Management Specialist
Christopher Knauth                     European Commission
Alison Heywood                         AusAID
Maureen Law                            World Bank, Sector Manager, HNP
Karin Nordlander                       World Bank, Legal
Hung Kim Phung                         World Bank, Disbursement
Hilary Kiell                           World Bank, Procurement
Chandra Chakravarthi                   World Bank, Operations Assistance
Interim Health Authority Staff
James Tulloch                          Co-coordinator, IHA
Sergio Lobo                            Co-coordinator, IHA
Nelson Martins                          IHA
Alves Domingos                         IHA
Tomas Luis Amaral                      IHA
Antonio Caleras                        IHA
Artur Corte Real                       IRA
Domingo Da Cruz                        IHA
Rui Paulo De Jesus                     IHA
Eugenio Dos Santos                     IHA
Francisco Dos Santos                   IRA
Joanico Dos Santos                     IHA
Marcario Faria                         IHA
Lidia Gomes                            IHA
Avelino Guterres                       IHA
Isabel Hemming                         IHA
Sue Ingram                             IRA
Ruth Leano                             IHA
Luis Lobato                            IHA
Traver Mulligan                        IHA
Vincente Reis                          IHA
Jose Ruiz                              IHA
Wei Sun                                IHA
Rigoberto Torres                       IHA
Joyce Smith                            WHO, Human Resources



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
East Timor: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Progject
A. Documents Prepared by the Interim Health Authority - East Timor
>  Extract from the Joint Working Group on health services: review of health care
provision in Timor Loro Sae, January 2000.
>  Further tables from analysis of review of health service provision
>  Reports of IHA team visits to districts, March 2000
>  Workplan 2000 (as prepared by Joint Working Group on Health Services, 10 January
2000)
>  Draft outline of detailed plan of action for 2000
>  Minimum standards for health service in Timor Loro Sae (revised version following
workshop on health services providers on 15-16 February 2000)
>  Final draft from the East Timor Health Professionals Workgroup workshop on health
services, 10 December 2000
>  The pre-crisis health system in East Timor
>  Selected tables from the 1998 Health profile of East Timor.
>  East Timor IHA - Summaries of district information - district support group, March
2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
>  Implementation Specialists Report. Nigel Wakeham, Implementation Specialist
>  Pharmaceutical logistics system.   Malcolm Clark, Pharmaceutical Logistics
>  Economic analysis paper        James Knowles, Economist
>  Policy options paper           James Knowles, Economist
>  Costs of district health component Lindsay Sales, Public Health Specialist
>  Other background notes on:
human resource development  Joyce Smith, WHO
health promotion           Alison Heywood, AusAID
community participation    Jocelyn Grace, Anthropologist
>  Proposal for small grant program   Janet Nassim, World Bank
>  Procurement Plan               Carlos Souza, World Bank
>  Financial Management Plan      Wijaya Wikrema, World Bank
C. Other
>  Aide Memoire
>  Terms of Reference for the HPMU, procurement and financial specialists
>  Note on the disposal of medical waste in health centers.



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NA



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
(Health facilities - Ainaro District)



MAP SECTION






Map No. IBRD 30885






IBRD 30885
12A4                                           125(                               Al1pono5o kX   26~ I N DO NS A      Op   Molsoos             127'
B d SHoEto (    Wetar Island       Luna
-8                  B a  n dl a       S e a                                                                         Linadh (  K..                                                        tDgBsn 
I N  D  0  N  E  S  I A-                                                                                              Strait of  Wetor                            Wakululoron              4od 
2-ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cp
S / V U  S e fl                                                       W                        CN  S        +                                                   +~~1-d /Bq4
(~~~~ IT,s<          Isg+   6; d   o,vF6Q;-                                                                                     V), ESTTIO
ji<                                                                              blTTid                           Strait -P                                    o-aL  oCO    N L
Island                                                                                                        R- a-  r  io,                                                     o
- s-o n    1l   <                                                          1 25                               .217
I                              ' *oo                                                                      C t-  @                                    =-
kco                             Bo iOO~O,             ~                              C
-9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEI A- --a-la-9
10 cusse)                                                                                                   EAST TIMOR~~~~~~~~~~~~ptoo~0 
/ HinO'0tOIAND DVELOPENT POGRAM
BOON   0   *Ats9                      Viqueqn7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od ~ ~   AI5I0AD
Abopopo    Roli o        *         T        ti m or  Sod~C eDo5bohoTONSADoILAE
N   Oec Ne                                                                                                                                   DISTRICT SEAT
~~K~enoo    Oco,Kototon TIIO~~~~~~~~O  -   Timor    Sea               - AND  DEVELOP~~~~AMENISRTIV  PROGRAM
r  --'                )                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT SEUNATS E
Soo                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROVNDARIES
0 5 10 15 20 25 30KILOMEIERS~ ~ ~~~~1
/  'I  I                                                                                    -                     5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5   10  15  20 MILES
Iolo-d ZPn 
This opoo pood-cd by th. Mop Dsigo Soil aobOe World So-k
<~~~~~~~~~~~rzz c2-. bleed  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~d.                             .P,  h Wf -kGP
2                   ~~~~2,4'                                        1250                                            1260                                            1 27
MAY 2000



