Report No. PID8817
Project Name                     East Timor-Health Sector Rehabilitation ...
and Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       P070294
Borrower(s)                      EAST TIMOR
Implementing Agency
Address EAST TIMOR TRANSITION GOVERNMENT
(UNTAET)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The health sector in East Timor faces many challenges includingA A
shattered government health care system. Extensive destruction to the
health infrastructure, loss of senior staff at central, district and
sub-district levels, and of consumables and equipment during the
post-referendum violence caused a breakdown of the health system. A
survey conducted in January 2000 found only 23 percent of facilities not
damaged. Only 20-30 of the 160 doctors working in the country before the
disturbances remain in the territory; the rest returned to Indonesia. On
the more positive side, most of the nurses and midwives who comprised
about 80 percent of the technical staff are East Timorese locals and still
in the territory. Clearly a major reconstruction effort is needed. It
will be important, however, not to simply rebuild all facilities without
consideration of the new structure of the health system. Efforts to
establish a Central Health Authority have started, with an Interim Health
Authority (IHA) being formed in February consisting of 16 members from
East Timor and seven international UNTAET staff. For the transition from
the emergency to the post-conflict rehabilitation phase, the Interim
Health Authority has prepared a work plan for 2000 which emphasizes
immediate needs for reconstruction and delivery of basic services, while
beginning work on essential elements of a functioning health system -
minimum standards, monitoring and evaluation, logistics systems and
guiding principles. There is general agreement that the transitional
strategy should provide flexibility for the future and should not put in
place elements that could distort the future development of the health
system. It also has to be realistic and take into account the present
limited capacity for management and technical oversight. A Heavy reliance
on NGOs for health care services. With the collapse of the government
health care system, NGOs (mostly international) became the main service
providers. The Church and religious charities continued to operate
clinics and some small hospitals, as they have done for many years, and
the coffee cooperatives also have their own health facilities. In
general, the services focus mostly on essential curative services, medical
screening of returnees, and detection and prevention of communicable



diseases such as malaria and measles. Very few public health
interventions (non-clinical) are provided. In terms of geographic
coverage, at least some sub-districts in all districts receive some health
services. It is estimated that about 71 facilities at sub-district level
or higher are operating in the 13 districts were operating in February
2000, compared with 96 before the disturbances. Services below the
sub-district level (i.e., at the community level) are scarce. (Getting a
firm baseline figure is difficult as many clinics are operating in
temporary premises.) In order to ensure coverage of as many districts and
sub-districts as possible, many NGOs have assumed primary responsibility
for service delivery in a specific area. These de facto arrangements help
to increase access to services and reduce duplication of effort in some
districts. However, each NGO has its own personnel, approach, budget and
drug supply systems. Many of the NGOs receive support as part of the
humanitarian and emergency relief funds - most of which will be ending in
the near future. There is a clear need for a transition strategy from
this "relief" type of service delivery toward a more systematic approach
for health care delivery that ensures the delivery of a basic package of
services at the district level to a common standard.A A previous system
that did not perform well. Health status was poor in East Timor before
the disturbances. UN figures estimate life expectancy at below 50 in
1995. The previous health care system in East Timor had many limitations
and public health services such as clean water and sanitation were also
limited. The massive destruction presents an opportunity for addressing
the main constraints that limited the performance of the previous health
system. These include:q A system that was chronically under-funded and
public subsidies that were not pro-poor.q An incentive system that did not
match the stated goals of the health system, especially
with                     regard to being pro-poor.q Poor quality of
services and low utilization of public health sector facilities.q Lack of
responsiveness to needs and demand of the beneficiaries, especially the
poor.q Inadequate quality assurance systems and regulatory frameworkq
Highly centralized system that could not adequately respond to local
needsq    Health information system that was inadequate for planning
and/or evaluation of health                Services           Clearly, East
Timor will not be inclined to rebuild the previous system.    Moreover, the
development of the new system should ensure that the appropriate lessons
learned are reflected in the design of the new system.A Little knowledge
of consumer needs, demands and expectations. Under the Indonesian
system, people had little to say about the nature of the health services
they received. Many consumers sought traditional health care, and
utilization rates of public health sector facilities were very low. The
information provided to the beneficiaries was inadequate, at best. Not
surprisingly this situation has not changed much in recent months. Very
little has been done during the emergency period to provide preventive
services and information. However, if the health system is to work well
in the future, it is important to give careful consideration to the
provision of information to consumers, to ensure that people participate
in decisions about the health care system and that they can provide
necessary feedback to health care providers. Moreover, efforts to provide
health promotion need to start as soon as possible.A Future policy
direction and health system definition needs to be developed. Development
of the system over the long term will require a clear health policy. East
Timor is in a unique position to formulate and apply health policies and
legislation suited to its particular needs. Different options can be
- 2-



considered and tried out, to avoid rapid decisions that may have long-term
deleterious effects. However, policy work will be especially challenging
because while it is necessary to address urgent policy issues, it would be
best if this were done within an overall policy framework that shows
clearly how the various pieces fit together. The outline of a simple but
fairly general health policy framework might include the following
elements: sector objectives and context; role of government in financing
and/or provision of health services, basic health services (i.e., what
should be included, and to what population groups, raising issues such as
health promotion, targeting, financing options, quality vs access) and
beyond basic services (i.e., what will be the government role in provision
and financing as incomes rise in the future).A Dependence on donors. East
Timor is totally dependent on donor support, and this will continue for
the next two to three years. Although the main channels for donor support
have been the UNTAET trust fund and TFET, several donors have also
provided support to NGOs working in health. While invaluable during the
emergency phase, there is a need for a more coordinated approach for the
transition period, and beyond. The IHA recognizing that national capacity
to deal with many separate donors will remain limited for the foreseeable
future, has indicated that it wishes to see such coordination. In
addition, the IHA wishes to see assistance to the sector guided by an
overall strategy for the transition period, and beyond. Bilateral
projects that are not within the strategic framework could seriously
jeopardize future development (e.g. un-programmed investments in hospital
care that incur high running costs). Moreover, defining a clear health
policy for East Timor would provide a firm basis for such a sector-wide
approach beyond the period of post-conflict rehabilitation. There is an
opportunity here to work on one sectoral program that is supported by
different donors.Against this background, what is the strategy of the
transitional government and what are the strategic choices that need to be
considered? A major issue that runs throughout the choices below is the
question of balance between addressing urgent needs and considering future
development. It is important that what is addressed in the short term
does not distort the medium to long term development of the system.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the program is to address immediate basic health needs
of the population of East Timor and develop health policies and health
system appropriate to the country. This goal will be achieved through two
specific objectives: restoring access to services to a basic package of
services, and laying the foundations for health policies and health system
development. Restoring access to basic health services involves a)
implementing a transitional strategy for service provision focused on
basic necessities for a functioning system b) a pharmaceutical logistics
system to assure the timely availability of drugs and medical supplies c)
reconstruction, rehabilitation and re-equipping of a number of health
facilities, d) establishing a referral system and facilities e)
re-building an administrative infrastructure, f) capacity strengthening
and g) a small grant scheme to support community and stakeholder
participation.Policies and system development involves the identification
and exploration of policy issues, consensus building, and pilot programs.
It also involves planning for health system design - the organizational
structure and supporting systems, and human resources development Donor
assistance to the health sector will be coordinated within an overall
framework, or sector wide program. The overall program is planned for
- 3-



three years. The program will be implemented in phases, with the first
one covering a 15 months implementation period. The first grant agreement
that will support this Project funds the first phase of the program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The health system of East Timor was devastated by the recent violence, and
rebuilding is hampered by the failure of the previous system to train more
than a few East Timorese for health management. In response, the
international community has pledged assistance and funds, and at the
multi-donor agency meeting IDA was entrusted the mandate for this type of
Project, with the assumption that IDA can mobilize both in-house and
external highly qualified technical assistance to rebuild the health
system. IDA has drawn on its experience in the health sector over the
past thirty years, its expertise in policy development and financing
issues and, with the full cooperation of major donors to TFET whose
representatives were part of the joint mission, has secured agreement on a
sector approach and an overall framework for assistance to the sector in
the transition period. Such an approach reduces the risk of
over-stretching very limited capacity with numerous separate projects.
4. Description
1. (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Component 1. Restoring access to basic health services.
This will include the following activities:
A transitional strategy for service provision focusing on accelerated
delivery of selected high priority programs (e.g. immunization, TB,
nutrition, health promotion) and supported by a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between the health authority (IHA/HO) and service
providers at the district level to provide a basic package of services to
the maximum number of people in each district. The transitional strategy
will also support temporary repairs, some new building, and re-equipment.
It will re-establish an administrative infrastructure at the central and
district levels, and training for the delivery of basic services, and for
management and administration. Moreover, a plan for addressing hospitals
needs and preparing an action plan for excess hospital capacity will be
developed. A major part of the this component involves the establishment
of a pharmaceuticals/logistic systems for East Timor. Stakeholder
participation will also be supported through various consultation
mechanisms including a small grants scheme and establishment of health
boards at the district and
sub-district levels.
Component 2: Health Policies and Health System Development.
This component addresses medium to long term issues. Through capacity
building, studies and stakeholder consultations it will begin the process
of defining and developing health policies appropriate to the country. It
will also support a strategy for human resource development. The Project
will also support technical assistance, study tours and specific policy
papers. These papers will address issues of private practice and health
financing. Moreover, a number of regulations related to the health sector
will be issued including regulations on pharmaceuticals.
Component 3: Program Management Unit.
- 4-



This component will include provision for program management and
administration at the central and district level. It will develop and
support capacity to monitor and evaluate, and provide technical assistance
to the program management team (IHA/OH)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING        12.7
Total Project Cost       12.7
6. Implementation
Implementation Period.   The first grant agreement funds implementation for
15 months of this three year program.Project Management.     The project
will be implemented by UNTAET/GPA. The Office of Health (OH) in the
Directorate of Social Services in the GPA is the responsible unit for
health services in East Timor and will be the Health Program Management
Unit (HPMU). The OH and East Timorese health staff have formed an Interim
Health Authority (IHA) that is working closely to implement the health
program. The IHA has two coordinators, the Head of the OH and the senior
of the East Timorese health staff. The OH will be designated the HPMU
with overall responsibility for project activities. The Head of the
GPA/OH will be designated the Project Director and will be accountable for
policy development, physical and financial progress of the Project in
accordance with the agreed implementation program. Moreover, the key
counterpart for the Project Director in the IHA (the co-coordinator) will
be appointed as the Deputy Project Director. The Project Director will
also be responsible for monitoring quality delivery of basic health
services by the service providers and the efficient procurement of drugs
and medical supplies and their distribution by the proposed AMS. The
staff of the IHA will work in parallel with the Project Director and his
staff in all aspects of Project implementation.The Program Director will
be supported by key technical specialists in the following areas: (a)
health policy, regulation and legislation development; (b) health service
delivery; (c) management of physical infrastructure (re)construction; (d)
procurement; and (e) financial and administrative management. These key
technical specialist will be supported by specialists on short-term
consultant assignments or long-term staff assignments, and support staff
as required. In general, there will be a national counterpart for each
appointed international staff to be trained to take over the
responsibilities in a reasonable period of time. The establishment of the
HPMU and the appointment of the procurement and financial management
specialists are conditions of effectiveness. Disbursement Arrangements.
The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 15 months
from date of effectiveness. Disbursement will start using traditional
disbursement methods - direct payments or Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
reimbursements. All disbursements against contracts for goods costing
$200,000 equivalent or more and works costing US$ 250,000 equivalent or
more, and operating costs, training, fellowships and workshop, services of
consulting firms costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more and individual
consultants costing US$ 50,000 equivalent or more will be fully
documented. All contracts below the above thresholds will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditures. The documentation supporting SOE
- 5 -



disbursements will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after the
receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. Financial Management.    A Financial Manager (FM)
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA will be appointed
within the Health Program Management Unit (HPMU). The UNTAET Central
Fiscal Authority will provide guidance and oversight of the FM. The HPMU
will also recruit adequate budgeting, accounting and support staff. The
Financial Manager will establish appropriate accounting and internal
control procedures for authorizing payments, recording of all project
related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and preparation of
annual financial statements for external audit. The accounting system
will be designed to maintain separate project accounts for TFET funded
activities in accordance with the Grant Agreement. Details of financial
management arrangements are given in Annex 6. Audit. The HPMU will
prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited
by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be
required to provide an opinion on the financial statements, the operations
of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will be
appointed on terms of reference acceptable to IDA no later than December
31, 2000. The first audit will be carried out for the financial year
ending June 30, 2001 and annually thereafter.
7. Sustainability
See Annex 4
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from other post-conflict situationsLessons from many
post-conflict situations (including Cambodia, Mozambique, Bosnia, West and
Central Africa, the Palestinian territories) point to the following
factors as key for addressing health sector issues in a post-conflict
situation:A need to maximize the value of donor international community
inputs to the formulation and development of health policyA need to
develop a clear conceptual framework to guide health system development as
countries emerge from conflict; this should be informed by
multidisciplinary approaches to understanding the wider context and
consequences for healthA the approach should establish processes to
involve a wide range of stakeholders in a participatory and transparent
process of identifying needs and priorities and considering alternative
models and approaches to health system developmentA careful consideration
should be given to limited capacity of a range of different stakeholders
(government at central and local level, UN agencies, NGOs, traditional,
public and private sector providers) in financing, providing and
overseeing health service provision the need to promote evidence-based
policy and planning to ensure that more good than harm results from
interventions proposed and that resources are used as equitably and
efficiently as possible.Lessons learned from health sector development
programs in other countrie sKey findings for IDA's work in the health
sector identified in the recent OED review are a) that the most complex
projects are found in countries with least capacity to implement, b) that
project documentation provides plentiful lists of suggested indicators but
country capacity to collect data and to monitor and evaluate is rarely
assessed, and progress towards development objectives is rarely a focus of
supervision, and c) that institutional assessment is weak. These findings
present important lessons for work in East Timor. First, despite the
- 6 -



broad and pressing needs facing the East Timorese in establishing a
functioning health system, the re-structuring must be calibrated with
emerging capacity; second, the Interim Health Authority and UNTAET need
agreement on a few monitorable indicators that will guide program
direction and project implementation, and third, proposals for health
systems development need to take into account the broader political and
government framework designed to take the country forward after the
transition period.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project will have minimal or no adverse
environmental impacts. It involves rehabilitation and some new
construction of health centers, to repair or replace those damaged or
destroyed in the violence in September 1999 that followed the Referendum.
The construction will take place in villages and town, mainly in the same
locations as previously, and there will be little or no new development.
In fact, the environment will be improved both visually and with respect
to health by the replacement of unsafe and burned out structures with
functional buildings. Moreover, guidelines for land acquisition have been
drafted and the adoption of these guidelines is a condition of loan
effectiveness. Malaria and dengue fever are both highly endemic in East
Timor. However, the health system does not plan to use mosquito vector
control measures (e.g., spraying of pesticides) that would be likely to
have adverse effects on the environment. Instead, other measures will be
used that have less serious environmental effects (e.g., treated bed nets,
health education). A water and sanitation project, also to be financed
from the TFET and prepared by the Asian Development Bank will address some
of the dangers posed by poor drainage and standing water which provide
breeding grounds for the mosquito. An additional environmental concern is
the disposal of medical waste. The project will provide health centers
with incinerators that will be used to dispose of their own medical waste.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Fadia M. Saadah
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 458-2022
Fax: 522-3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 30, 2000.
- 8 -



