                     Document of
                   The World Bank




                                              Report No: 32519-TP

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (TF-23768)

                        ON A

                   GRANT FROM THE

             TRUST FUND FOR TIMOR-LESTE

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.7 MILLION

                       TO THE

         DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                       FOR A

HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                     June 27, 2005

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit =     US$
                            Local Currency = US$
                                       US$ =

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1   June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
CHC           Community Health Centers
CFET          Consolidated Fund for East Timor
DHS           Demographic and Health Survey
ETHPWG        East Timor Health Professionals Working Group
EC            European Commission
ECHO          European Commission Humanitarian Office
ESW           Economic and Sector Work
HSRDP         Health Sector Rehabilitation Development Project
IDA           International Development Association
IHA           Interim Health Authority
LMIS          Logistics Management Information System
MOFP          Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
NGO           Non-government Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PMU           Program Management Unit
SAMES         Servico Autonomo de Medicamentos e Equipamentos de Saude
TFET          Trust Fund for East Timor
TSP           Transition Support Program
UN            United Nations
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
UNTAET        United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
WHO           World Health Organization



                            Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director     Xian Zhu
                          Sector Manager      Fadia Saadah
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Rekha Menon

                                       TIMOR-LESTE
                    Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P070294                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Rehabilitation and
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Rekha Menon                                             TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development             L/C/TF Number: TF-23768
                            Project
   Country/Department: TIMOR-LESTE                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (85%); Central government administration (15%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (S); Other communicable diseases (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/2000                                     Effective:                           07/25/2000
     Appraisal: 03/30/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/02/2000                                      Closing:                            12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          EAST TIMOR/EAST TIMOR TRANSITION GOVERNMENT (UNTAET)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Xian Zhu                                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:                 Fadia Saadah                                   Maureen Law
Team Leader at ICR:             Rekha Menon                                    Fadia M. Saadah
ICR Primary Author:             Ronald Waldman; Natasha
                                Beschorner; Janet Nassim; Rekha
                                Menon


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project constituted the first phase of a
multi-donor program to restore health service provision after the violent end to Indonesian
administration in 1999 and the resulting collapse of infrastructure and institutions. Rebuilding
healthcare in Timor-Leste entailed tackling a number of long-standing challenges, including
inadequate financing, overcapacity of physical infrastructure associated with inadequate numbers
of personnel with managerial and medical skills and a top-down management structure that did
not respond adequately to local needs. An immediate problem was the dearth of Timorese doctors
and managers at the senior and mid-levels.

The Project therefore had two broad objectives: (a) to facilitate access to basic healthcare service
packages in the aftermath of conflict; and (b) to build the foundations for development of health
policies and systems appropriate to the needs of the new country for the medium term. The
project was financed by a grant for the multi-donor Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), for which
IDA acted as the Trustee.

The objectives of the project were few, simple, clear, to the point and appropriate in the difficult
physical and institutional environment. They demonstrated an appealing logic ­ make sure that
people are able to access health services in the short-term, before the developmental process is
well underway, but at the same time prepare for the future by elaborating a long-term framework
outlining health policies appropriate to the geographical and epidemiological imperatives of
Timor-Leste and build a health system that is consistent with and supportive of those policies. It
should also be noted, that most of the reconstruction or capital expenditures for the health sector
in Timor-Leste were being financed from TFET through the Project while recurrent costs were
financed from the UN-administered Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of the following components:

(a) Restoring Access to Basic Health Services (US$10.0 million): this comprised:

(i) A transitional strategy for service provision: contracting NGOs to provide basic high priority
healthcare service packages (e.g. immunization, TB and malaria control, nutrition, health
promotion, maternal and child health, and reproductive health) at the district level.

(ii) Establishment of a pharmaceutical logistics system: to ensure the timely availability of drugs
and medical supplies. This included construction of a central warehouse, development and
adoption of an essential drug list and standard guidelines, and provision of pharmaceutical,
medical and laboratory supplies with pharmaceuticals logistics supply system managed by an
external management agency.

(iii) Rehabilitation and equipping of health facilities: the project initially envisaged the


                                                  - 2 -

construction of 25 new health centers during its first year and up to 30 additional facilities in the
second year.

(iv) Establishment of a referral system and facilities: Strengthening of referral systems through
ambulance and radio supply and preparation of a plan for addressing hospital needs and excess
hospital capacity.

(v) Capacity strengthening: This sub-component was designed to train staff to successfully
implement the basic package of services and to take on additional supervisory and administrative
responsibilities. The administrative infrastructure (buildings, staff salaries) was financed under the
recurrent budget (Consolidated Fund for East Timor) managed by the UN.

(vi) Small grants to promote community participation: to enable community organizations and
professional associations to carry out health promotion activities, including the rehabilitation of
health posts and community health centers.

(b) Health Policies and Health System Development (US$1.8 million): this comprised:

(i) Policy development:    This component was designed to provide input into options for health
financing and the role of government in the health sector. It also aimed to support the
development of a Health Policy Framework.

(ii) The design of a health system: This was to include the carrying out of a baseline demographic
and health survey to guide future program development and assistance for the design of logistics
systems for pharmaceuticals and health legislation and regulations.

(iii) Human resources strategy development: included the development of a medium to long-term
strategy based on then profile of health staff and the emerging directions from systems and policy
development.

(c)Program Management Unit (US$0.9 million):

This component provided support to the PMU which, as explained below, acted as the de facto
ministry of health. The PMU was also responsible for:

(i) Project administration: including financial management and procurement.

(ii) Monitoring and evaluation: through production of quarterly monitoring reports covering the
indicators established at project inception for the health system,

(iii) Capacity building/support to the health authority: through technical assistance.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised, though there was some reallocation of funding from
capacity-building to civil works categories due to cost overruns on the latter.



                                                 - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
As mentioned above, project objectives were simple, clear and appropriate. It responded to the
need to put in place a strong management structure that could both ensure the procurement of
necessary goods and services and oversee the implementation of a basic package of health
services that was intended to protect and promote the health of the Timor-Leste population.
Project preparation was completed within a three-month period.

The key features of the Project were in direct response to the circumstance under which the
Project was designed, including:
l The urgency of responding to immediate needs, hence the rapid mobilization of NGOs
    through simplified contractual arrangements (MOUs).
l The importance of coordination among development partners to avoid fragmentation of
    assistance. This operation was the closest to a "sector wide approach" of all the assistance
    programs in the country as most of the financing for healthcare initially flowed through TFET.
l Concentrating on basic health services and limiting hospital issues to planning for the expected
    second and third tranches of TFET. In the event there were only two tranches necessitating a
    focus on hospital construction in the second project given available resources and limiting the
    number of additional health centers.1
l The need for a flexible approach to policy development by promoting greater involvement and
    participation of Timorese in planning and decision-making, and not predetermining the
    structure of the health system prior to the consideration of health policy options.
l Strong local ownership

The Project was fortunate to have the East Timor Health Professionals Working Group
(ETHPWG), established in 1999 soon after the violence, as counterparts in project design.

The project design, appropriately, took into account the following constraints:

l Weak institutional structure and limited availability of counterparts: all government functions
    were handled by the UN Transitional Administration (UNTAET) which relied heavily on
    external consultants in the first years.
l Lack of a clear legal framework due to the transition from the Indonesian to a new Timorese
    constitution; this delayed enactment of pharmaceuticals legislation, for example.
l Government budget arrangements were still being formalized. Reconstruction or capital
    expenditures for Timor-Leste were being financed from TFET whereas recurrent costs were
    financed from the UN-administered Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET). The two were
    not integrated but were recorded under a "combined sources budget".

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome rating is satisfactory. It was instrumental in restoring access to basic
services while building institutions, capacity in policy development and management, and
developing key policies and systems.

The immediate health needs of the population were met during the course of the project. For



                                                  - 4 -

example, the key performance indicators regarding vaccination coverage rates of children less
than one year of age, access to health facilities (86% of the population have a facility within 2
hours) and health facility utilization all increased. These were at satisfactory levels, according to
official government reports (Annex 1 Table A). Monitoring data suggests that utilization of
services have increased; number of outpatient visits increased from 0.75 per capita per year in the
last quarter of 2000, to 1.12 in 2001, and 2.13 in 2004 (even with data adjusted based on
preliminary census population and crude birth rate estimates). This increase is most likely due to
a combination of the expanded access provided by construction and rehabilitation of facilities, and
other factors related to growing security and trust in the health system. There is evidence of
significant variation in indicators between districts, which were noted in the aide-memoires of the
supervision mission. Efforts are currently underway under HSRDP2 to link district plans to
budgets and performance at the district level.

A key achievement of the project was that it helped build the institutional set-up for the health
sector. It strengthened the ability of the Government to manage and implement a legitimate health
system through a clear policy framework, defining the role of the government and through the
district health planning process.

With regard to health policy and systems development, as detailed below, the Project contributed
greatly to the development of a health policy framework within which a strong health system
could be developed. In particular, the Project fostered strong Timorese ownership of this policy
framework supported by all development partners. In addition, a strong foundation was laid for
medical supply system, communications and transport and various pieces of health legislation (see
Annex 1, Table C).

A word of caution is in order, however, in regard to the data reported on service statistics. For
examples, vaccination coverage is calculated on the basis of a numerator of vaccinations
administered and a denominator consisting of the crude birth rate applied to the estimated
population. However, a recent census shows that the population of Timor-Leste is larger than
previously thought, and the crude birth rate has been underestimated. This would mean that
vaccination coverage, which did increase during the period, is probably actually considerably
lower than that reported. The same would be true to for other indicators such as utilization of
services, access to skill birth attendants which use the same denominator. HSRDPII through its
assistance to health information systems development and the ESW on health sector are both
looking carefully into this issue.

In fact, the 2003 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) (supported under the Project), a
population-based (rather than a service-based) estimate of vaccination coverage found that only
18% of children were fully immunized, whereas the PAD calls for 30% to be fully immunized by
the mid-term of the Project, and 60% by its completion. Interestingly, vaccination coverage data
are also available from a UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey from 2002. Like the DHS of
the following year, this survey also looked at children aged 12-23 months. It found that only 5%
of children in this age group had been fully vaccinated, and that 58% had received no vaccinations
at all. The subsequent surveys and health facility reports could, therefore, be interpreted as
showing that substantial progress had been made. More than likely, though, they suggest that



                                                  - 5 -

considerable strengthening of the health information system is indicated (this is being supported
under HSRDPII). It is difficult, given the current state of the data, to draw strong conclusions
regarding the performance of any health service delivery program at this time. This is not at all
unusual in post-conflict situations.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project component I ­ Restoring Access to Basic Health Services:
(i) A transitional strategy for service provision. Subject to the caveats on data quality noted
above, restoration of access to basic services is reflected in improved key indicators for
immunization, percentage of births attended by skilled birth attendants, access to basic health and
inpatient services, outpatient visits and essential drug stocks as seen in the service statistics
reported in Annex 1.

With regard to the institutional arrangements for service provision, the NGO contracting
arrangement ended between September and December 2001, a year earlier than anticipated. In the
immediate post-conflict period, "relief-oriented" NGOs assumed responsibility for health care as is
often the case in emergency situations. In the first phase of Project implementation, the
contracting of nine NGOs to manage health service provision at the District level was a major
achievement. The European Commission Humanitarian Office (ECHO) support in this process
was a valuable contribution to the program. However, many of these NGOs did not have the
expertise for longer term healthcare delivery. Given the comparatively high cost of this mode of
service delivery (each NGO had its own management and logistic system) and that a civil service
health establishment was being put in place, the transitional administration took the decision to
replace NGOs with Timorese health workers, supplemented by a pool of twelve international
physicians contracted on an individual basis, using TFET funding, to direct the provision of health
services at district level. In addition, international consultants were contracted as district medical
officers to help build the capacity in the new Timorese district management teams.

(ii) Establishment of a Pharmaceutical Logistics System: This was established and is operating
effectively, but with some challenges. The Project recommended that an autonomous Central
Medical Store be established with the mandate to procure and supply essential drugs and supplies
to the MOH and other providers and to be managed following commercial practices but within
the public sector. Based on legislation passed in 2004, the Servico Autonomo de Medicamentos e
Equipamentos de Saude (SAMES) was established as a separate legal entity. Legislation was
delayed due to the transition in the legal framework noted above. SAMES has autonomy in
procurement and warehousing/distribution, but not in product selection or
prescribing/compliance. Its Board, through appointments, is controlled by the Minister of Health.

Challenges to the future operation of SAMES are: increased capacity-building for staff
(procurement is still managed by the PMU); expansion of its warehouse; improved transportation
between district and hospital levels; and full rollout of the logistics management information
system (LMIS) to enable more accurate demand forecasting and timing of procurement.

(iii) Rehabilitation and equipping of health centers: A total of 28 health centers were built,
together with a central medical store. 36 health posts were renovated. However there were some
delays in construction due to a variety of reasons, lack of inspection of construction sites prior to


                                                   - 6 -

bidding, delayed ordering and delivery of imported materials, late change in design details, delays
in agreeing on some proposed Health Center sites, limited availability of experienced supervisors
and tradesmen and lack of familiarity with the World Bank's procurement procedures. The
funding for this sub-component exceeded the budget allocated at Appraisal by US$1.2 million or
28.6 percent. Availability of water at some of the new health centers still remains an issue. A
small amount of supplementary funding from TFET funds has since been mobilized to finance
small works at 36 sites for a total of US$395,681. Following one mis-procurement (for a
contract valued at US$121,287.50) a manual for small works was developed and approved by the
MOH and cleared by the IDA. It was decided to finance additional civil works under the
follow-up second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development program (HSRDPII).

(iv) Establishment of a referral system and facilities: A health facilities configuration plan was
developed by MOH and approved by the Council of Ministers laying the groundwork for the
hospital program to be supported under (HSRDPII). Radios for each district health center and
some sub-districts were procured, greatly improving communications and are highly valued by
health center personnel. Additional vehicles and radios were provided for the program by other
development partners.

(v) Capacity strengthening. A key constraint for this component was the uncertainty over the
future size and level of health administration staffing due to ongoing civil service reforms. The
implementing agency wanted to commit funds to training only after the health workforce was
recruited and stabilized. As such, while the original allocation to this sub-component, in the
Project Appraisal Document, was US$1.0 million, only US$200,000 was spent. Eight Timorese
medical students were funded to continue their studies in Indonesia, and six new medical students
were given scholarships. In addition, seminars were held on reproductive health, HIV/AIDS, and
the Expanded Program on Immunization, and some funds were devoted to the first National
Immunization Day in Timor-Leste. Other partners such as WHO and UNFPA too supported
medical training overseas and in-country training programs. Still, it should be noted that human
resource development remains a major constraint and should become a long-term undertaking of
the Ministry of Health.The World Health Organization is supporting clinical nurse training that is
seen as having considerable value. Although the program initially used Indonesian physicians as
facilitators, capable Timorese have subsequently been identified. This point is important, as in all
areas of technical assistance, there has been a strong desire to use Timorese skills and to limit
international consultants to short-term contracts, especially given their language limitations.
Capacity building efforts were not limited to training activities alone, but were integrated into
every aspect of the project. "Capacity building through results" was adapted as an important
principle in this operation.

(vi) Small grants to promote community participation. This sub-component was to be financed by
AusAID in the amount of about US$300,000 per year, but was not implemented due to changes
in priorities.

(b) Project Component II ­ Health Policies and Health System Development

(i) Policy development: A number of policy papers were prepared, for example on health care



                                                 - 7 -

financing, on the role of government as inputs into the health policy framework. Based on these
inputs and additional advice provided by major UN partners, a task force of Timorese developed a
Health Policy Framework. The Framework addressed six areas --prioritization of health services,
human resources development, health care financing, implementation of the basic package of
health services with comments on the optimal public/private mix of service delivery,
pharmaceutical management, and the role of external assistance. Upon its completion, it was
reviewed by civil society organizations and a wide array of individuals and agencies involved the
health sector, and approved by the Council of Ministers in January 2003. It remains a valuable
document, and one for which Timor-Leste health authorities take pride in full ownership. The
development of the Framework is considered to be a major achievement of the Project, as it is the
foundation on which Ministry of Health micro-policies and local-level implementation are based.

The first District Health Plans, also developed under this component, are also seen as a major
achievement. Although they were first elaborated by the NGOs with extensive consultations with
the Interim Health authority, they laid the groundwork for the Ministry of Health to continue to
develop district-level implementation plans and activities. With the Timorese taking over
responsibility for district management and service delivery, the development of annual district
health plans continued under them.

(ii) The design of a health system: Achievements include the development of the essential drugs
list, national formulary, service treatment protocols, development of a logistics system and the
passing of legislation on the autonomy of SAMES and regulation of private pharmacies. A
demographic health survey was conducted, but with some delay.

(iii) Human resources strategy development: By agreement, WHO helped MOH develop an
interim strategy. Development of the longer term strategy was deferred and is under preparation
with support from AusAID. In addition, a health ESW under preparation by the Bank, will further
analyze the macro-economic implications of this strategy and the expected demands for hospital
staffing and management.

(c) Project Component III ­ Project Management Unit

(i) Project administration: Prior to independence, the health PMU was integrated into the
Department of Health Services. This initial design of a PMU that is fully integrated into the health
sector with its various evolutions proved to be quite strategic and helped ensure the continuity of
implementation despite various structural changes. Recently following independence, and the
operation of the MOH as part of the Timorese civil service, the PMU with its international staff,
became somewhat removed. The Ministry and the joint donors responded to this issue and
appointed a Timorese national as PMU manager to help re-integrate PMU and MOH functions.

(ii) Monitoring and evaluation: Quarterly monitoring reporting system was established and has
been functional from the start of the Project. Despite problems related to measurement of
indicators as mentioned above, it helped establish a culture of reporting on results, positioning the
health sector as the only one with quantifiable indicators within the broader development program
financed under the Transition Support Program (TSP). This part of the PMU responsibilities has



                                                 - 8 -

been fully shifted to the policy and planning division of MOH.

(iii) Capacity building/support to MOH: The twining of international PMU staff with Timorese
counterparts has proved more difficult to achieve partly due to language difficulties and partly due
to delays in appointment and turnover of Timorese staff.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal due to lack of reliable data.
Since much of the benefits of the project are non-tangible, the economic benefits of the project are
outlined in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated at Appraisal, nor was this exercise conducted for the
ICR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact on the government is rated as substantial. Strengthening the
ability of the Government to manage and implement a legitimate health system was an explicit
Project Development Objective. A clear policy framework for the health sector was developed
which is guiding the current elaboration of priorities and strategies e.g. reproductive health. The
role of the government has been clearly defined to encompass financing, contracting and
regulation of private providers as well as the public sector. The district health planning process is
now well established and provides a firm foundation for linking budgets to workplans. Although
community participation is being integrated in the district health planning process, the mechanisms
for involvement of communities remain underdeveloped. The Project provided the basis for the
establishment of SAMES as an autonomous institution, but further work needs to be done to
complete this process.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Poor initial conditions. The pre-1999 health care system in Timor-Leste was characterized by
low utilization levels of poor quality services. Health information and administration were
generally inadequate. The new administration of Timor-Leste needed to institute a new health
system, and had little to build on.

Lack of information on macro situation, especially absence of information on budgets, made
designing a health system which fits within a large macroeconomic context a challenge.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Establishment of the civil service. In retrospect, the division of responsibility for
re-establishment of the structures of government and long term sectoral investment between
UNTAET and TFET, required closer collaboration on a day-to-day basis. In the event, the
establishment of all health personnel as civil servants had implications for the sector, pre-empting
alternate human resource development options.

Links to the broader macroeconomic process. The development of a policy framework, the



                                                     - 9 -

establishment of a reporting system etc. enabled the health sector to contribute effectively to the
national development plan and associated instruments such as TSP.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of familiarity with IDA procurement procedures. This resulted in implementation
delays. Misprocurement of small works led to delays in utilizing additional funding for small
works, intended to assure water supply within all health centers.

Lack of counterparts for procurement and financial management. Ensuring that there were
Timorese staff as counterparts to procurement and financial management consultants to facilitate
knowledge transfer did not occur as planned. Conversely, policy and planning and budgeting
have had a more significant Timorese involvement.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final cost of civil works conducted under the project exceeded the budget allocated at
appraisal by US$1.2 million or 28.6 percent. A number of factors contributed to this:
l the scale of civil works was increased from Appraisal estimates of 25 Community Health
    Centers (CHCs) all with one consultation room to CHCs with two consultation rooms.
l 26 new CHCs all with two consultation rooms (12 percent larger than originally proposed)
    were constructed and two existing CHCs were extensively renovated. Total area of CHCs
    constructed was 23 percent more than the Appraisal estimate.
l the use of imported goods and labor and management as opposed to using local goods and
    labor as initially envisaged.
l simultaneous tendering for significant civil works across all sectors increased demand for
    contractors in relation to supply, resulting in flow-on price increase being greater than
    foreseen.2
l delays due to labor and material shortage and extended community consultation about the
    location of building sites.

The majority of the cost overrun in civil works was met with reallocation from funds allocated at
Appraisal to the Training Component, which was significantly under-spent due to Government
decision to train staff only after they have been confirmed to a civil service position.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The likelihood of the project being sustained is high. HSRDP was envisaged as the first phase of
a longer-term program. The slow and steady build-up of Government capacity was the hallmark
of this Project. The sustainability of the Project is assured by the willingness of the donor
community to continue support the health sector. The EC for example is committed to further
support, with the development of the Policy Framework being an important factor in this decision.
AusAID and USAID are also planning new support. The health sector is an important part of the
Government's own expenditure program. In addition, to sustain the emphasis on basic services,
the Government restricts hospital spending to 40 percent of its recurrent health budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This is not entirely relevant to this Project which was developed as a first step to establishing a


                                                    - 10 -

health system in a post-conflict environment and has been followed since by a second health
project and two IDA-administered EC trust funds. The Government's ability to manage and plan
budgets has increased. The Ministry of Finance and Planning and the MOH have established a
joint sector working group to plan future investments in the sector and provide oversight of
ongoing programs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in grant management is rated satisfactory. The Project was prepared within
three months. The requirement to prepare a full PAD ensured adequate due diligence. The
comprehensive approach to sector development foster by the Bank team during project
preparation, which included attention to policy development from the start, contributed to the
strong performance of the health program.

7.2 Supervision:
The IDA's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. There were four supervision missions
a year --typically conducted as two joint donor missions every six months and two missions
focusing on implementation issues. The Bank management allocated a significantly higher
supervision budget for the operation in recognition of the swiftness of project preparation and the
difficult environment under which it was implemented. The continuity of the supervision team is
notable, both among Bank staff and consultants and from participating donors. The Bank task
team's efforts to ensure health sector issues were prominent in the broader macro program by
participation in TSP mission are also noteworthy.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall IDA performance during project preparation and implementation is rated as
satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
UNTAET preparation of the project was satisfactory. Under the direction of its principal health
officer, UNTAET worked hard to involve local authorities and provided legitimacy to the Interim
Health Authority, the DHS, and eventually the Ministry of Health, even during the emergency
phase which is so often controlled by external actors. When the emergency subsided, local
authorities were well-positioned to exercise control of the decision-making and policy formulation
processes of the health system.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Following independence, Government moved quickly to develop planning and budget capability
assisted by IDA-coordinated program support financed by all donors. Policy development in
health, after a slow start, was well handled. There is considerable ownership of the health policy
framework. The budget process in health, still under development, is looked at by MOFP as a
mechanism for better linking work programs, performance and budget allocations.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation was hampered by capacity constraints particularly in areas of procurement and



                                               - 11 -

financial management. Conversely, there was considerable capacity building initially by
international consultants in the PMU in the areas of budget, systems and policy development.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The recipient's overall performance is rated satisfactory. There was clear commitment to the
objectives of the program. However, at times there was uncertainty about how to manage a
sector-wide approach.

8. Lessons Learned

This project has significant lessons for fragile and post-conflict environments.

Sector-wide approach in a low capacity environment: To avoid placing too many burdens
and competing donor requirements on implementing agencies, agreement by donors to work
together to support priorities identified by Government is essential.

Phased approached to health sector development: Within a long term understanding of the
dimensions necessary to successful health systems performance, design individual projects each
with a few manageable objectives that build on each other to achieve health sector goals.

Support to policy development from the start. In post-conflict societies, where reconstruction
and rehabilitation are essential, but time-consuming, and where the health needs appear to be, and
frequently are, of an urgent nature, there will always be a tendency to seek `quick wins'. Indeed,
some targeted public health programs, such as the provision of health centers, childhood
vaccinations and the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses can help lower and/or prevent
excess mortality, and these should be mounted as quickly as possible. But, in order to ensure the
coherent development of a potentially long-lasting, sustainable health system, simultaneous
attention to long term policy development is essential.

Early mapping of health facilities and assessment of construction and rehabilitation needs:
In a post-conflict situation, where many actors move in to provide assistance, it is important to
map health facilities and take inventory of needed repairs, as a basis for decisions on the
configuration of the health system within expected future budget envelopes.

Transitional strategy is recommended: The design of the project depended heavily on
identification of strengths e.g., the presence of international NGOs with experience in health
service delivery in emergency situations and the existence of mid-level Timorese health workers.

Linking establishment of government structures and procedures to longer term investment
programs. Where responsibility is divided for these two dimensions of reconstruction in a
post-conflict environment, there is need for close coordination e.g. establishment of civil service
and its links to health human resource development, as mentioned in section 5.2.

Documentation of post-conflict reconstruction of health systems is important. There
remains too little evidence on which future interveners can base policies. A dedicated
documentation team, and wide dissemination of lessons learned, would be important: in the case



                                                  - 12 -

of Timor-Leste, this has occurred, to a reasonable extent, and the case study (see references)
should serve as a model for ensuing undertakings of this kind.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project was put in place in
the wake of the collapse of health services delivery system following mass
destruction over the country including health infrastructure. In an intensive
collaboration between the Interim Health Authority and the international
development partners led by the World Bank, the project aimed at (i) restoring
basic    health     system     in response     to   the    immediate      needs,    (ii)   laying
fundamental policies for further development of the sector, (iii) and creating
a Project management Unit to facilitate its implementation.

Project performance:

Overall, the project was rated satisfactory in regards to the level of
expenditure, construction program, capacity building processes and programs,
and the application of sector wide approach.                    The major outcome on this
project is the construction of 28 New Community Health Center,                       one medical
store, the rehabilitation of 36 health post, the installation of oxygen plant
in Dili and 13        medical waste incinerators in districts. In the policy area,
Health Policy Framework, Hospital configuration and District Health Plan are
the major outcome,. Numerous of training both overseas and in-country training
have also been financed under this project which help improve the capacity
building of the Ministry of Health.

Regarding the Key Performance Indicators of the project, one important issue
that needs noted is that the targets were based on an estimated population of
850,000 whereas the recent census shows Timor-Leste population reached
925,000. It is also worthwhile acknowledging that the outcomes of the Project
cannot be solely attributed to HSRDP I because HSRDP II came into effect just
one year after the implementation of HSRDP I and the continuing contribution
from government funds (CFET), UN Agencies and the NGOs.

Challenges:

The major challenge for this project is that the inception of the project
itself occurred in a very difficult situation because there was no definite
government      structure      in place.     However,     strong    determination       and   good
collaboration between Timorese Health Professionals and the UNATET enabled the
realization of this project and its successful implementation.

Given the continuing evolution processes of the sector and great pressures to
fulfill the urgent needs of the population for health services, the project
experienced a number of extensions from its original closing date in order for
the implementation unit to complete the project and to adjust to the dynamic
of the sector.

Based on the agreement and the procurement rules and regulations of the World
Bank and as a consequence of the lack of experience and capacity in project
implementation, however, one of the activities was declared as misprocurement
by the Bank.



Lessons learned:



                                              - 13 -

By the closing date, there have been several lessons learned from the project
by health sector stakeholders, in particular the World Bank and the Ministry
of Health. The emergency situation was understood as the main challenge to the
smooth implementation of the project thus it was obvious that specific
arrangements need to be in place in dealing with similar situations; the
dynamic of the sector required adjustment overtime during the life of the
project; and the integrative process at the design stages which resulted in
strong ownership were the key element of the success of the project.  The key
lessons learned are listed below:

·     The decision to phase out of NGOs by the end of 2002 appears to be a
right decision as it gave opportunities to the newly recruited Ministry of
Health staff to be responsible for managing and delivering health services.
This contributed a lot to the current performance of the Ministry of Health as
one of the best ministries in the current government

·     The collaborative work of the IHA and Bank team during the project
design and implementation process created a strong ownership of the
government.

·     Deep understanding of the importance of policy-guided programs of health
since the inception of health program resulted in a sound and acceptable
programs in later stages of the project as well as of other activities.

·     Technical assistance from international experts provide an important
contribution to the operationalization of the project as well as provide
international exposure in managing health projects.

·     The misprocurement declared by the World Bank provides an important
lesson in which the procurement procedures were not adequately followed.
PMU-MOH has prepared procurement manual to avoid similar mistake in the
future.

·     There were no counterparts posted in the PMU to transfer procurement
skills in the entire life of Health I. Ministry of Health was not able to
identify suitable person with English language skills to post in the PMU as
Procurement Assistant. At present the Central Procurement handles entire
procurement of government. Hence in the long term it will not affect the
Ministry of Health.

·     The planning of such magnitude project in a post-conflict country like
Timor-Leste requires certain degree of flexibility in order to allow
adjustment to the unpredictable change of environment. This situation has a
significant contribution to the delays in the implementation of civil works as
the local companies may not have sufficient resources in dealing with World
Bank contracts.

·     On the financial management side, there was lack of standard financial
management procedures and policies at the initial stage of the project's
commencement. This resulted in the external audits highlighting areas of
deficiencies within the financial management of the project. In particular;
lack of adequate systems in relation to asset management; no accounting
software was implemented and commitment systems were not in place. All of
these issues have been addressed during the life of the project. Some of these
issues may have been avoided had there been a standard procedure
manual/accounting system. In particular clear instructions on recording and
registering all assets of the project and their movements, as well as a
computerized accounting package.




                                     - 14 -

·       The project finances were not fully incorporated into the finance
division within the Ministry of Health; therefore the result has been a lack
of capacity building or knowledge transfer from internationals to nationals on
the financial management requirements of World Bank Projects. Only
international finance staff were employed under the project, no nationals were
employed by the project, nor were the current Government Finance staff within
the Ministry of Health involved in the financial management of the project. In
future it would be advantageous if the PMU was to ensure that National staffs
were employed from the beginning in order to adequately pass on capacity.

·       Understandably in the Timor-Leste situation both Government and PMU's
were born simultaneously. In the absence of Government policies in project
execution processes, the World Bank guidelines were crucial to ensure proper
implementation.

·       This project also proved a crucial and successful co-financing mechanism
between government and the project budget in installation of oxygen plant and
medical waste incinerators in which the government provided funds the
construction of the house and foundations while the project procured the plant
and the incinerators.

(b) Cofinanciers:
European Commission:

The comments of the European Commission were directly incorporated into the
ICR. The ICR assessment also benefited from the Interim Evaluation of TFET
conducted by EC in October 2004.

AusAID:

The assessments in the ICR are in line with AusAID's own assessments,based on
our participation in the World Bank in-country review missions over the past
few years.

The report highlights the initial challenges in Timor-Leste in a post conflict
environment, with low local              capacity, no government in place at the start of
the project, and some initial delays in activity implementation.

The success of the infrastructure component is evident on the ground with good
quality health facilities throughout the country. SAMES appears to be
functioning well even with some lack of local resource
capacity.

Of particular importance was the focus on policy development as well as
infrastructure rehabilitation from the beginning of the project. The policy
development work initiated under this project has built a solid foundation for
follow-on work in the sector.

AusAID agrees with the ratings for the various components as "satisfactory".

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                - 15 -

10. Additional Information

Endnotes:

1Emergency services were being provided by NGOs.

2
Under Indonesian occupation, a local construction industry had not been able to flourish. Hence,
after Indonesian withdrawal, there was an acute shortage in the construction workforce, most the
absence of managerial personnel. In the violence, following the vote for Independence
construction machinery and materials were destroyed. A combination these factors led to use of
imported goods and imported labor and management personnel, at a higher rate than foreseen at
Appraisal.




                                             - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table A: Based on service statistics
                                                              End of Project      Target end of
               Indicators
                                          Baseline (2001)          (2004)            P\roject

Percentage of Children Under one


Year of Age Immunized
(a)DPT3 - National Average                      34%                 73%                60%
          District Range                      23-58%              56-106%              >50%
(b) Measles -National Average                   26%                 73%                60%
             District Range                   16-44%              34-127%              >50%


Percentage of Births With Skilled

Attendance
National Average                                26%                 41%                >35%
District Range                                 7-52%              26-66%


Percentage of Population With
Access to:

(a) Basic health services within 2 hours        75%                 86%                >95%
of time


                                                                                       >80%
(b) Inpatient services within 2 hours from
a source of basic health services

Number of out-patient visits per
person per year at each health                  1.15                2.45               >2.5
facility


Percentage of health facilities
reporting no stock-outs of essential
drugs lasting more than two week in             62%                 62%                >90%

the previous quarter



Note:     (a) population growth and fertility increases are not factored into denominators making
          these indicators overstate true coverage.
          (b) Because Dili was not included in the baseline, it is not included in the aggregations above and below
          ­ this would probably have increased coverage.




                                                              - 17 -

Table B: Service statistics adjusted for population growth and fertility increases
according to population-based surveys i.e. DHS and Census (preliminary)
                                                                                  End of Project 2004
                                                                          MOH adjusted MOH Adjusted for

                                                       Baseline (2001)
                                                          Crude Birth     for population     CBR-38.5 and
                                                          Rate (CBR)
                                                          =29/1,000        growth=3.9%,       Population
                                                          population
                                                                                                          Target end
                                                                              CBR=29            Growth    of Project
Percentage of Children Under one Year of Age

Immunized
DPT3          National Average                               34%               65%                49%        60%
              District range*                              23-58%             44-94%            33-71%      >50%
Measles       National Average                               26%               65%                40%        60%

              District range*                              16-44%             30-113%           23-62%      >50%


Percentage of Births With Skilled Attendance

              National Average                               26%               36%                27%       >35%
              District Average                              7-52%             23-59%            18-44%




Table C: Intermediate outputs
                  Outputs                                 Acheivements                  Target            Achieved
Draft health sector policy paper discussed
                                            Discussed with stakeholders and approved
                                            by Council of Ministers, Janaury 2003       Completed            Yes
with stakeholders
Options paper of health financing           Prepared
                                                                                        Prepared             Yes
Options paper of the role of private sector Prepared
                                                                                        Prepared             Yes
Hospital Configuration Plan                 Completed
                                                                                        Completed            Yes

Revised pharmaceutical regulations

                                            Approved by Council of Ministers March
       Draft Prepared                                                                   Completed            Yes
                                            2004
                                            Approved by Council of Ministers April 27,
                                                                                        Completed            Yes
       Regulations Issued                   2004

                                            Prepared in year 1 and updated since        Prepared and
                                                                                                             Yes
            District health plans                                                       maintained

Human Resource Management and               Draft medium term plan prepared with

Development Plan adopted                    assistance of WHO, Further work onging      Completed          Partially




                                                             - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

ProjectCostsbyComponent(US$millionequivalent)
                                  AppraisalEstimate*            ActualEstimate              %ofAppraisal
Component
                             TFET     CFET        Total    TFET     CFET      Total    TFET    CFET     Total

Component1.Restoring
AccesstoBasicHealth
Services                     9.50        -         9.50    10.87     0.30     11.17    114%             118%
Component2.HealthPolicies
andHealthSystem
Development                  1.70        -         1.70    0.30       -        0.30    18%      -       18%
Component3.Program
ManagementUnit               0.90        -         0.90    1.50      0.01      1.51    166%             167%
Contingencies
                             0.60        -         0.60
TotalPROJECTCOSTS            12.70       -        12.70    12.67     0.31     12.98    100%     -       102%
*     FromthePAD



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                          Procurement Method

                                                    ICB       LIB         Other     Total Cost*
1. Civil Works                                      0.0       3.9         0.4          4.3


2. Goods (including transport)                      1.6       0.0         0.9          2.5


3.Consultant Services & Studies                      -         -          4.4          4.4


4. Training, fellowships and workshops               -         -          1.1          1.1


Operating Costs                                      -         -          0.4          0.4


Total                                               1.6       3.9         7.2          12.7



 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (LATEST Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
 Expenditure Category                                           Procurement Method

                                                     ICB       LIB         Other     Total Cost*
 1. Civil Works                                       3.6      1.3          0.5          5.4


 2. Goods (including transport)                       1.2      0.6          0.5          2.3


 3.Consultant Services & Studies                       -        -           4.5          4.5


 4. Training, fellowships and workshops                -        -           0.2          0.2


 Operating Costs                                       -        -           0.3          0.3


 Total                                                4.8      1.9          6.0         12.7




                                                          - 19 -

Consultant Services                             Selection Methods - APPRAISAL Estimates                           Total Costs
                                                                                                                  (Including
Expenditure Category                                     (in US$ million equivalent)                              Contigencies)
                            QCBS           QBS           SFB            LCS           CQ            Other
A. Firms                               2.4           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.6              3.0
B. Individuals                         0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           1.4          0.0              1.4
TOTAL                                  2.4           0.0            0.0           0.0           1.4          0.6              4.4



                            QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
                            QBS            Quality-Based Selection
                            SFB            Selection Under A Fixed Budget
                            LCS            Least Cost Selection
                            CQ             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                            Other          Selection of Individual Consultant, Single Source Selection Method for Firms


Consultant Services                               Selection Methods - ACTUAL Estimates                            Total Costs
                                                                                                                  (Including
Expenditure Category                                     (in US$ million equivalent)                              Contigencies)
                            QCBS           QBS           SFB            LCS           CQ            Other*
A. Firms                               1.5           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.8              2.3
B. Individuals                         0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0          2.2              2.2
TOTAL                                  1.5           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0          2.9              4.5


*Single Source Selection and Individual Selection are classified under Other
                            QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
                            QBS            Quality-Based Selection
                            SFB            Selection Under A Fixed Budget
                            LCS            Least Cost Selection
                            CQ             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                            Other          Selection of Individual Consultant, Single Source Selection Method for Firms




                                                              - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The initial economic analysis of the project was hampered by a lack of reliable data.
Notwithstanding these limitations, a set of expected benefits was identified for each of the project
components. In the case of the component to 'restore access to basic health services', the analysis
envisioned benefits arising from the impact of increased health service access and utilization on
the incidence and consequences of communicable disease, in particular malaria and TB. By
controlling and mitigating the impact of disease, the project would contribute to an increase in
labor supply and productivity, as well as to improved educational outcomes.

The extent to which these benefits have been realized is hard to assess. Monitoring data suggests
that the number of outpatient visits increased from 0.75 per capita per year in the last quarter of
2000, to 1.12 in 2001, and 2.13 in 2004 (data adjusted based on new census population and crude
birth rate estimates). This increase is most likely due to a combination of the expanded access
provided by construction and rehabilitation of facilities, and other factors related to growing
security and trust in the health system. The increase may of course also be related to an increase in
need for health care--e.g. from a growing incidence of disease. However, there is evidence to
suggest the contrary. For example, the number of reported malaria cases declined from 49,863 in
2000 to 31,819 in 2003 (WHO Roll Back Malaria Monitoring and Evaluation Report 2005). TB
time trends are harder to come by, but available data suggests that although Timor-Leste
continues to have one of the highest incidence rates per capita in the world, the rate has not
increased over time (WHO Global Tuberculosis Control Monitoring Report 2005). Still, focusing
on the benefits over the life of the project, and ignoring the long run consequence of health
investments on labor and educational outcomes, the initial economic analysis probably
underestimated the potential benefits from the project.

The economic benefits of the other project components are less tangible. The 'health policy and
system development component' has contributed to the development of a new set of policies,
including health promotion, IMCI, immunization, nutrition, reproductive health, etc. Although
further prioritization is required to fully take into account resource constraints, these policies are
likely to have helped the MOH define the set of programs and interventions that best meet the
needs of the country. In that way, the policy development should have influenced the services
provided by MOH providers, and how those services are provided. This component can hence be
seen to reinforce the economic benefits associated with the first component. The second
component was also expected to generate benefits through the establishment of SAMES
(improved efficiency in pharmaceutical expenditure) and through the support of training of
Timorese doctors (replacing high-cost foreign doctors). These benefits have not yet been realized
in a significant way. In part, this reflects problems in project implementation (e.g. a failure of
SAMES to rationalize pharmaceutical procurement and distribution), but it is also a question of
time. SAMES is still a young institution and physician training takes time. These benefits may
hence be realized in coming years.




                                                  - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/1/2000                       HEALTH SPEC. TTL (1);
                                             SENIOR POPULATION AND
                                             RH HEALTH ADVISOR(1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1),
                                             ARCHITECT (1), PRINCIPAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/20/2000                     HEALTH SPEC. TTL (1);
                                             SENIOR HEALTH SPEC.
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1),
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                             (1) ARCHITECT (1),
                                             HEALTH PLANNING (1);
                                             AUSAID (1); EC(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             GULBENKIAN FOUND.(1),
                                             PHARMACUETICAL
                                             SPEC.(1)

 Supervision

              08/07/2000                4    HEALTH SPEC. TTL (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFF - HEALT
                                             (1); YOUNG PROFESSIONAL
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTTATION
                                             SPEC. (1)
              05/18/2001               13    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             IMPLEMENATATION SPEC.
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFF-HEALTH (1); EC. SWAPS,
                                             DHPS (1); AUSAID (2);
                                             PRINCIPAL HEALTH SP. (1);
                                             CONSULTANT AUSAID (1);
                                             CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                                             (1); FIN. MANAG. SPEC. (1);
                                             BRAZIL MISSION (1);
                                             PORTUGAL MISSION (1);
                                             JICA (1)


              10/16/2002               11    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SP.CONS
                                             (1); ARCHITECT
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             EUROPEAN COMMISSION (1);




                                              - 22 -

                      PUB.HLTH SP. AUSAID (1);
                      HEALTH SP. AUSAID (1);
                      PROGRAM OFF. UNICEF (1);
                      AMBASSADOR, BRAZIL (1);
                      PORTUGUESE EMBASSY (2);
                      SECOND SEC. AUSAID (1)
      02/22/2003    1 SRHNP OPERATIONS OFFIC          S    S
                      (1)
      05/02/2003    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                      IMPLEMENTATION SP CONS
                      (1); ARCHITECHT, CONS (1);
                      SR HNP OPERATIONS OFFC
                      (1); PUB HEALTH SP, AUSAID
                      (2); EUROPEAN COMMISSION
                      (1); CHILD HEALTH, WHO (1)
      10/20/2003    5 TEAM LEADER (1); SR.OPS         S    S
                      OFFICER, HNP (1); CONS
                      ARCH, IMPLEMENTAT (1);
                      EC - DILI (1); AUSAID DILI -
                      HEALTH (1)
      05/30/2004    8 TEAM LEADER, HR SPEC (1);       S    S
                      ECONOMIST (1);
                      IMPLEMENTATION SP (1);
                      SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                      (1); PUBLIC HLTH SP AUSAID
                      (1); HOSPITAL MGMT SPEC.
                      (1);
                      GULBENKIAN/PORTUGAL
                      (1); MATERNAL HLTH,
                      USAID (1)
      09/28/2004    8 TEAM LEADER (1); SR. OPS        S    S
                      OFF. PUB. HLTH (1);
                      ARCHITECT/IMP. SPEC (1);
                      IMP. SPEC/PROC (1);
                      COMMUNITY HLTH AUSAID
                      (1); RES REP EC (1); HEALTH
                      SPECIALIST (1); HOSPITAL
                      MGMT SPEC (1)

ICR
      4/28/2005       SR. ECONOMIST, TTL (1),         S    S
                      HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                      IMPLEMENTATION
                      SPECIALIST (1)




                      - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            224
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                            N/A
  Supervision                           N/A                            624
  ICR                                   N/A                            N/A
  Total                                 N/A                            848




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Documents prepared by the Interim Health Authority - East Timor
Extract from the Joint Working Group on health services: review of health care provision in Timor Loro
Sae, January 2000
Further tables from analysis of review of health service provision
Reports of IHA team visits to districts, March 2000
Workplan 2000 (as prepared by Joint Working Group on Health Services, 10 January 2000)
Draft outline of detailed plan of action for 2000
Minimum standards for health services in Timor Loro Sae (revised version following workshop in health
services providers on 15-16 February 2000)
Final draft from the East Timor Health Professionals Workgroup workshop on health services, 10
December 2000
The pre-crisis health system in East Timor
Selected tables from the 1998 Health profile of East Timor
East Timor IHA - Summaries of district information - district support group, March 2000

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Implementation Specialists Report
Pharmaceutical logistics system. Malcolm Clark, Aprtil 2000.
Economic Analysis paper, Jim Knowles, 2000.
Policy options paper
Cost of district health component
Other background notes on:
      human resource development
      health promotion
      community participation
Proposal for small grant program
Procurement Plan
Financial Management Plan

C. Other
Aide Memoires for all joint donor missions.
Terms of Reference for the HPMU, procurement and financial specialists
Note on the disposal of medical waste in health centers
Eurpoean Commission Evaluation Report: Interim Evaluation of the Trust Fund for Timor-Leste, October
2004.




                                                    - 27 -

- 28 -

