RETURN TO                                                                       Cf
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN                                             FIL   COPY
ONE WEEKFIL 
DOC E OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 276a-BO
APPRAISAL OF
A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BOLIVIA
December 28, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
Tiis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Fquivalents
1 Bolivian peso ($b)              US$0.o5
US$1.00                         * 20.0 Bolivian pesos($b)
1 million Bolivian pesos ($b)   US$50,000
Weights and Measures
Unless otherwise specified all weights and measures are
in the metric system.
1 Metric Ton    =    1.102 Short Tons
1 Metric Ton          2204 Pounds
1 Metric Tcn    =    1000 Kilcgram.s
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AID             - United StateE Agency for International
Development
BAMIN            - Banco Minero (Mini;ng Bank)
BISA             - Banco Industrial, S.A. (Industrial Bank)
CBF              - Corpcracion Boliviana de Foriento
(Bolivian Developm.ent Corporaticn)
C01JBOL          - Corporacion Minera de Bolivia
(Bolivian Mining Corporation)
ENA.             - ampresa Nacional de Fundiciones
(Naticnal Smelting 3ompa.ny)
GE.OBOL          - Servicic Geclogicc de Bolivia
(Boliviarn Geclcgical Service)
IDB              - Interamerican Developrent Bank
IIMM             - Irs-iu+tc de Investigacicnes Minero-Meetalurgicas
(InTstitute for ,Xining ana Metalluzrg-cal Research)
KfW              - Kredi-vanstalt fur Wiederau.fbau



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Conter.ts
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................................... -J-lui-ii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                   1
II. MINING SECTOR.                                                 2
A. Background ..                                              2
B. Sectoral Structure          ..                             3
C.  Performance ............... ..                            4
D. Government Policies          ..                            4
E. Financing of Mining         ..                             7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                  8
A. General ...........                   .                    8
B.   Credit for Medium-Size Miners .......................... 11
General Features .......................................  1i
Financial Intermediary--Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA).. 13
C.  National Survey of Small Mines ........................ 16
D.   Technical Assistance Program .......................... 18
IV.  BENEFITS AND MARKETS ........................................ 19
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. B. Rassmuson, M. Alland and P. Reich (DFC Projects Division,  COP)
and R. Bosson (Industrial Projects Departaent), which visited Bolivia in
June 1 973.



Table o f Contents (Continued)
List of Annexes
1.   Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA)
A.   Organization
B.   Resources
C.   Operations
D.   Financial Results
E.   Prospects
12 Tables
2.   Servicio Geologico de Bolivia (GEOBOL)
A.   Legal Status
B.   Objectives and Functions
C.   Organization and Staffing
D.   Operations
E.   Budget
4 Tables
3.   Mineral Export Tonnages and Values, 1959-72 (Actual),
and 1973 (Projected)
4.   Medium-Size Miners and their Projects
A.   Potential Credit Beneficiaries
B.   Operations and Financial Position
C.   Demand for Funds
D.   Subprojects
E.   Effect of the Proposed Credit
5.   The National Survey of Small Mines
A.   Project Concept
B.   Background and Justification
C.   Objectives
D.   Plan of Work
E.   Administration and Staff
F.   Project Costs
G.   Procurement
H.   Financing



Table of Contents (Cofitinued)
6. The Technical Assistance Program
A.   Introduction
B.   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy
C.   An Examination of the System for Taxing the Mineral Sector
D.   Preparatory Work for the Proposed Exploration Fund
E.   Summary of Total Costs and Financing of the Technical Assistance
Program
7. The Market
A.   Introduction
B.   Antimony--A Brief Market Review
C.   Tin--A Brief Market Review
D.   Tungsten--A Brief Market Review
8. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
MAP
Bolivia
December 19, 1973






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to support the development and ex-
pansion of private medium-size mines, a national survey of small mines and
technical assistance for the mining sector. A credit of US$6.2 million to
the Government is proposed, of which US$5 million would be used for financing
term loans for mining projects; US$850,000 for the national survey of small
mines; and US$350,000 for technical assistance.
ii.       Mining exerts a dominant influence on Bolivia's economic life.  It
is the major source of export income, earning US$173 million of total 1972
exports of US$243 million; tin alone accounted for US$113 million. About
60,000 workers are directly employed by the mining companies and hundreds of
thousands depend on mining for their livelihood. However, resulting primarily
from the lack of financing and hence insufficient investment, the mining
sector's share in GDP decreased from 16% in the early fifties to 11% in the
early seventies. Bolivia has not been able to generate internally the flow
of capital required for expansion and modernization of mining facilities and
has had to depend on external investment funds--which have often been woefully
inadequate--t_ prevent a decline in its mineral production.
iii.      Apart from lack of financing, there have been three other main con-
straints to mining development in Bolivia. First, resulting from frequent
shifts in Government policies between support of the private sector and a
reliance on public ownership, the role of private investment has been unclear.
However, the present Government, pursuing a balanced public-private approach
to mining development, has made significant progress in improving the climate
for an orderly expansion of private sector investments. Second, the lack of
exploration and the consequent establishment of reserves--only 5% of the
country's territory has been systematically explored--has severely limited
Bolivia's capacity to prepare projects and obtain financing for them. Third,
the deficiencies of the public agencies serving the mining sector are also
a serious constraint. The Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy, which should be
the central directing and coordinating unit, lacks qualified staff, adequate
procedures and up-to-date data about the sector to be able to carry out an
integrated mining policy. This is reflected in the obscurities and apparent
inconsistencies in existing mining legislation.
iv.       The project would be an initial step by which the Bank Group could
help Bolivia overcome these problems.  Total cost of the project is estimated
at US$9.27 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of US$6.2 million
to be covered by IDA.
v.        Of the three project components, the credit program is estimated to
cost US$7.70 million, of which IDA would contribute US$5 million, Banco Indus-
trial S.A. (BISA) US$0.77 million and the subborrowers US$1.93 million. By
providing term financing for expansion and modernization ofmining projects,
IDA would help Bolivia--at present the highest-cost producer of tin in the
world--become more competitive.



- ii -
vi.       The national survey of small mines is estimated to cost US$1.12 million,
of which IDA would finance US$0.85 million and the Government US$0.27 million.
IDA would help prepare the way for development assistance to the small mining
sector by identifying and preparing small mining projects. Servicio Geologico
de Bolivia (GEOBOL), a semi-autonomous Government agency, would conduct the
survey with the assistance of outside experts. The Government would pass on
the US$0.85 million of the IDA credit to GEOBOL as a grant.
Vii.      The technical assistance program is estimated to cost US$0.45 million,
of which IDA would finance US$0.35 million and the Government USSO.10 million.
It would aim at strengthening the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy, impro-
ving the structure of taxation of the mining sector and preparing for a sys-
tematic exploration effort. This program would be carried out with the help
of outside experts.
viii.          BISA would receive the IDA funds for the credit program at not
less than 7-1/4% p.a. and relend to miners at not less than 11-1/4% p.a. in
foreign exchange, retaining a spread of 4%. Subloans would have a maximum
term of 15 years, including a grace period not expected to exceed 3 years,
with the subborrowers bearing the foreign exchange risk. BISA would repay
its share of the IDA credit to the Government in approximate conformity with
the repayments received from subborrowers. The limit for projects not re-
quiring IDA's prior approval (the "free limit") would be US$250,000; the first
three projects would, regardless of their amounts, have to be approved by IDA.
The aggregate free limit would be US$2 million.
ix.       Established in 1963 as a private development bank, BISA has been the
major source of term financing to the private industrial sector in Bolivia.
It has made almost 700 loans and has helped clients to improve their appraisal
and financial practices. BISA has competent and experienced management. Its
staff would be strengthened to provide the company with sufficient capability
to appraise and supervise mining projects. With the proposed strengthening
of its organization, BISA is suitable to serve as the intermediary under the
credit program. The company's prospects are good; it expects to increase
lending operations substantially while maintaining a sound financial position.
Its liquidity would continue to be good, while profitability would remain
modest. BISA would need to mobilize considerable amounts of fresh capital
which should be possible given the indications of interest by several existing
and potential shareholders.
x.        Subborrowers would come from a group of about 40 private medium-
size mining companies (largely Bolivian-owned) which, on the whole, are capable
of preparing and executing investment projects. The potential subborrowers
are generally financially sound and creditworthy. The credit would help
finance about 25 subprojects. They include underground mine development and
modernization, construction and modernization of beneficiation plants, electri-
fication and installation of camp infrastructure and surface mine development.



- iii -
xi.       The financial rates of return of the subprojects would range from
15% to 40%. The economic rates of return would be significantly higher. The
credit program would increase Bolivia's exports of antimony, tungsten and
tin substantially and of other minerals to a lesser extent, resulting in
additional annual net export earnings of about US$7 million a year. It would
also help improve health and safety conditions in the mines and the plants
and living conditions in some camps through electrification, erection of
housing and other social facilities.
xii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of USA6.2 million to
Bolivia on terms and conditions customary for IDA credits.






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A
MINING CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has asked the Association for a credit of
US$6.2 million to help finance a mining credit project. The project will con-
sist of the development and/or expansion of private mines, the execution of a
national survey of small mines and a technical assistance program for the
mining sector. It is part of a program for development of the mining sector
in Bolivia which was recommended by a Bank Group sector survey mission that
visited Bolivia in 1971. 1/ The survey identified the major problems confront-
ing the sector, among which were lack of credit, deficient credit institutions,
inadequate exploration and institutional deficiencies in the public sector.
The proposed project would be a first step for the Bank Group to help Bolivia
overcome these problems.
1.02      A credit program for the mining sector must encompass various lend-
ing techniques and intermediaries to serve the 40 or so medium-size companies,
and the 2,000-3,000 smaller mining units. The difference in their financial
strength, technical ability, and administrative capacity clearly separates
these two groups regarding their capability of preparing and executing pro-
jects, and the forms of assistance they need. The proposed credit project
has been designed to help finance the first category, the medium-size mines.
1.03      A credit program for small mines could be effective only if it is
supported by a substantial amount of technical assistance. This requires
considerable effort and time in building up appropriate institutional arrange-
ments. From the large number of small miners, those with the best potential
for development and expansion would have to be selected and upgraded into
efficient and creditworthy operations. Technical teams are required to help
these small miners to prove up reserves, prepare projects, and improve work
and administrative practices. The national survey of small mines, for which
IDA financing is proposed, would help accomplish this (paras. 3.34-3.36). 2/
1.04      The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)  provide term financing for the development and/or expansion of
medium-size private mines;
(b)  help strengthen Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA), in particular by
building up its capability to appraise and supervise mining
projects;
1/   A report entitled "Bolivia - The Mining and Metallurgical Sector" (PI-14a)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 29, 1972.
2/   UNDP was approached to finance the survey, but it was unable to assist.



-2-
kc) assist in the development of the small mining sector through
the national survey of small mines by which the small mines
with best potential would be identified and provided with
technical and exploration assistance;
(d) prepare a small miners' credit project and a mineral exploration
fund project; and
(e) help improve efficiency of public institutions in the sector,
in particular the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs. Rassmuson, Alland, Bosson, and Reich, which visited Bolivia
in June 1973.
II. MINING SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Bolivia, with a land area of about one million sq. km and a popula-
tion of five million, is the least developed country in South America with a
per capita income of about US$180. 1/ Its geography has been a serious handi-
cap to development in a large measure negating the potential benefits of its
rich mineral endowment. Isolated from major markets by long distances and
some of the most difficult terrain in the world, Bolivia faces high freight
costs, resulting in high cost of imported capital goods and low net receipts
on exports. Therefore, Bolivia's development strategy in the mining sector
should emphasize increased production efficiency, mineral concentration, and
whenever economically feasible, smelting and refining as well as forward
linked industries producing finished products.
2.02      The mining sector provides jobs for some 60,000 full-time and part-
time workers, equivalent to 3% of the working population. Its share in GDP
decreased from 16% in the early fifties to 11% in the early seventies. Despite
this declining trend, the mining sector exerts a significant influence on the
economic and political life of the nation. It is the major foreign exchange
earner, traditionally providing over 80% of export income. Minerals earned
US$173 million of total 1972 exports of US$243 million; tin alone accounted
for US$113 million (Annex 4). 2/
2.03      Mining workers are well organized in powerful labor unions, a sig-
nificant political force in the nation. The unions have succeeded in attain-
ing high wages by Bolivian standards and relatively generous social benefits.
1/   A discussion of general economic conditions and outlook is contained in the
most recent economic report on Bolivia, No. WH213(a), dated November 9, 1972.
2/   All mineral production is exported.  The major minerals in order of impor-
tance are tin, zinc, tungsten, antimony, copper, silver and lead.



-3-
Despite these improvements, however, general conditions affecting the miners'
well-being are not comparable with the standards of more advanced nations.
2.04      The current administration has prepared a Mineral Sector Development
Plan for the 1972-76 period which is basically a list of projects. The Plan
emphasizes public sector investments, although recognizing the need for private
sector development. The Plan's targets for public sector investments are
very ambitious and not likely to be achieved.  The Government has now started
preparing a more comprehensive and realistic development program for the min-
ing sector.
B. Sectoral Structure
2.05      Bolivia's mining sector is divided into three principal subsectors:
(1) Large mining subsector, consisting entirely of the Corporacion
Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL), a Government corporation which was
created in 1952 when the three major private mining companies
were nationalized. COMIBOL operates 14 major mines, of which 9
are primarily tin mines, and leases others to cooperatives and
mining firms. Most of the mines are operated at low profitability
levels due to high production costs resulting from weak adminis-
tration, lack of investment in exploration, obsolete technology,
and excess labor. The large mining subsector employs about 23,000
workers and generates about one-half of the total mineral produc-
tion.
(2)  Medium mining subsector, consisting of 20 private companies (6
foreign) belonging to Associacion de Mineros Medianos (Association
of Medium Miners), which is the most influential group in the
private mining sector. It employs about 7,000 workers and accounts
for about one-quarter of the total mineral production.
(3) Small mining subsector, 1/ consisting of up to 3,000 private
operating units, ranging from one-man operations to companies
comparable in size and output with smaller mines of the medium
mining subsector. The working force of this subsector is about
30,000, full and part-time. Although operations are generally
marginal, over 100,000 persons depend on small mines for their
livelihood.
2.06      The small mines are generally operated on a primitive basis, char-
acterized by poor health and safety standards, almost no exploration, little
or no working capital, and low productivity. The average small miner has
neither the capital nor the technical competence to explore, properly map and
1/   The proposed credit project has been designed to serve medium-size pri-
vate mining companies, including the 20 companies from the medium mining
subsector and about 20 mines from the small mining subsector.



-4-
axp.ic't his ore reserves, and needs a substantial amount of technical assist-
ance. The problems are compounded by the physical dispersion of operations
over the difficult terrain of Bolivia's altiplano.
C. Performance
2.07      The private mining sector was more dynamic than the public sector
during the 1960's.  The value of its exports at constant prices grew at an
average yearly rate of 7.11% as compared to 4.8% for the public mining sector.
However, in 1970-71 private investment in mining practically ceased as a re-
sult of the political conditions. Any growth in production and exports during
this period was the result of investments made during the 1960's. Since 1972,
a recovery of the investors' confidence is clearly evident; many firms are
seeking financing for their projects, while others are preparing new projects.
Increased availability of credit would greatly stimulate the recovery.
2.08      The value of mineral exports declined in 1971 by about 15% after
two years of rapid growth. Among the factors responsible for this downturn
were labor unrest and a decline in world market prices of some minerals.
Although the value of exports increased slightly for tin and zinc--the two
most important export items--it was down substantially for all other major
minerals, including tungsten, antimony, copper, silver, and lead (Annex 3).
2.09      In 1972, mineral exports remained at the low 1971 level.  For 1973,
however, the value of exports is expected to increase by about 13%, although
not yet reaching the high 1970 level. The increasing exports reflect an
expansion of almost 5% in COMIBOL's output after the introduction of new
mineral recovery processes and technological improvements and increases in
the world market prices of tin and zinc. On the other hand, the price of
antimony, principally produced by mines from the medium mining subsector, is
still far below the 1970 level.
D. Government Policies
2.10      Background.  The basic historical issue faced by the Bolivian Gov-
ernment in the mining sector is the relative roles to be assigned to the pub-
lic and private sectors. Total dependence on Government operating agencies
appears unrealistic since it is unlikely that the public sector could provide
the necessary capital (through public savings and/or external loans) or at-
tract the expertise required for an efficient development of the mining sector.
It would be equally unrealistic to expect a full swing to total dependence on
the private sector. Therefore a balanced development of public and private
sectors holds the best promise; this seems to be emerging at present.
2.11      The Government of President Torres which came to power in October
1970 accelerated an earlier trend to public sector ownership and management
of the nation's mineral resources. The legislation was modified in favor of



-5-
public ownership and several foreign controlled mining ventures were national-
ized. President Banzer, who came to power -n 1971, reversed this trend making
the conditions more conducive to private investment.  The Government, conscious
of the need to attract foreign private capital into the sector, settled out-
standing nationalization disputes. In December 1971, a new Investment Law
was passed, providing incentives to approved new investments, public and private,
domestic and foreign, in industry, mining and other sectors. It reserves the
metallurgical and steel industries to state enterprises, but also provides for
private participation in these sectors under certain conditions convenient to
national interests.  Despite the significant progress made by the Government
in improving the climate for an orderly expansion of private sector investment,
there are still problem areas, such as:
-    institutional deficiencies of public sector;
-    inadequate exploration;
-    deficient mining code;
-    inequitable tax regime; and most importantly.
-    lack of credit.
2.12      Institutional deficiencies of public sector.  The deficiencies of
the numerous specialized agencies and institutions serving the mining sector
are a severe constraint to the successful development of the sector. Their
activities often overlap and this, together with the problems of insufficient
funds, political interference, unstable policy, high management turnover and
scarcity of qualified staff, have prevented effective long-range planning and
a rational coordination of efforts. Any efforts to improve the institutional
performance in the public sector, apart from COMIBOL, would need to be
centered on the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy (paras. 3.43-3.44).
2.13      The Ministry should be responsible for:
-    the formulation of mineral development policy and the prepara-
tion of back-up studies;
-    administration of the mining code and appropriate revisions;
-    statistical compilation and record keeping of mining activity;
-    planning and monitoring sector development; and
-    control and inspection of safety and soundness of mining
practices.
So far, the work in these fields has not been effective and adequate. The
basic problems center around an inadequate budget and hence poor staffing
and poor management. The Ministry, recognizing these shortcomings, has taken
some initial steps to strengthen its staff and administration. To continue
the work of upgrading the Ministry, technical assistance is required which
is included in the proposed IDA credit (para. 3.40). 1/
1/   Annex 6 presents the proposed technical assistance program.



-6-
2.i4      Inadequate exploration.  Lack of risk capital has hampered the ex-
pioration activity resulting in that only one-quarter of the country's terri-
tory has been mapped geologically and less than 5% has been systematically ex-
plored. Exploration of reserves in existing mines--particularly in the public
and the small mining subsectors--has been neglected with the result that most
m-nes are operating with little knowledge of reserves. This prevents adequate
mine planning which leads to poor recovery of ore reserves, higher mining costs,
and lower production. The lack of proven reserves also severely limits the
abiiity of mines to prepare expansion projects and obtain financing for them.
2.15      Risk capital for exploration is not available in Bolivia.  Most of
it would have to come from abroad, either as private foreign venture capital
or as support to the Government. As it is not realistic to expect any signi-
ficant quantities of private mining venture capital to enter Bolivia in the
immediate future, the only viable alternative would be to set up an exploration
fund, which would make available to public and private mining companies a sub-
stantial part of the funds needed for their exploration programs (Annex 6-D).
An exploration fund would also provide a mechanism for coordination of the
exploration efforts within the country. The proposed IDA credit would heip
finance preparatory work for setting up such an exploration fund (para. 3.42).
2.16      Mining code.  Activity in the mining sector is regulated by the 1965
Mining Code, subsequently modified by several decrees. The existing legisla-
tion suffers from several shortcomings which hamper an efficient development
of the sector. The terms for obtaining exploration concessions are ill-defined
and ambiguous, thereby obstructing investment in exploration. Large, poten-
tially rich areas are either excluded from exploitation or the terms for
exploiting them are unclear. Conversely, concessions can be readily obtained
for exploitation of other areas without any strict requirements for production.
This results in large "frozen" areas. Standards for workers' safety and wel-
fare and ecological effects of operations are not adequately controlled by
legislation. To overcome these shortcomings and to provide a basis for effi-
cient development of the sector, a commission was appointed by the Government
to revise the mining code. A new mining code has not yet been issued, although
it has been under review for more than a year. A revised mining code is im-
portant for an orderly sector development; during negotiations, the Government
agreed to promulgate the revised Mining Code by June 30, 1974.
2.17      Tax regime.  The mining sector operates under a tax regime which,
originally established in the 1965 Mining Code, has been complicated by sub-
sequent legislation. This has led to a confusing and inequitable tax system
which is alleged to work, at times, as a disincentive to production, invest-
ment and/or exploration. The Government has expressed interest in a study of
the impact of the tax system on the mining sector, including recommendations
for improvements, for which IDA financing is proposed (para. 3.41). 1/
1 / Annex 6-C presents in more detail deficiencies of the present tax system
together with the proposed study.



-7-
E. Financing of Mining
2.18      Banking system.  The banking system consists of the Central Bank,
Banco del Estado (State Bank), owned by the Government, 14 private commercial
banks, and 4 specialized banks. Banco del Estado is the largest commercial
bank in Bolivia, accounting for roughly one-third of total commercial bank
liabilities to the private sector. Six foreign-owned private commercial banks
account for another third of the total commercial bank liabilities to the
private sector, while 8 private domestic comnercial banks are responsible for
the remaining one-third.
2.19      The four specialized banks include two Government-owned, Banco
Minero (Mining Bank, BAMIN) and Banco Agricola (Agricultural Bank), and two
private banks, Banco Industrial (Industrial Bank, BISA), and Banco Hipotecario
Nacional (National Mortgage Bank). Banco Minero and Banco Agricola have been
plagued by serious financial difficulties resulting from several factors,
including political interference, poor management, and inefficient collection
of receivables. The Government intends to rehabilitate both institutions; one
step in this direction was a modest recapitalization of BAMIN, carried out in
March 1973. 3ISA, the intermediary under the proposed credit program, is a
sound development finance company with a proven record in industrial finance
(paras. 3.17-3.33).
2.20      Sources of mining credit.  BAMIN should be the natural source for
investment finance to the Bolivian mining enterprises. However, as mentioned
above, it has not been able to play this role. The only other institution in
Bolivia with experience in mining finance is the Corporacion Boliviana de
Fomento (Bolivian Development Corporation, CBF), a public entity also charged
with the management of Government enterprises. However, CBF suffers from fi-
nancial and administrative difficulties, particularly with its non-banking ac-
tivities (management of public enterprises and works), which prevent it from
acting as an effective credit institution. No improvement is expected and the
Government may decide to eliminate credit operations from CBF's functions.
2.21      Most private mining companies must heavily rely on internally
generated funds to meet their needs. Short-term financing is available to
the large mining companies from commercial banks. These companies can also
obtain short-term financing through advances received from foreign buyers
against a term sale contract of minerals, which, however, is generally a
costly source of funds. The smaller miners depend almost exclusively on
occasional credits and advances received from BAYIF against future deliveries.
However, BAMIN's assistance has been insufficient.
2.22      Scarcity of term credit.  The crucial problem is term credit.
Given the lack of a capital market in Bolivia, mining companies have great
difficulties in raising long-term finance. At present, there is virtually
no term financing for mining from local sources. Some term financing is
available to the larger companies from supoliers. However, this could be
quite an expensive source of funds since interest charges may be concealed



-8-
in hlgner equipment prices.  External agencies have provided limited term
funds to the private mining sector; AID has financed small miners through BAMIN
and IDB medium-size miners through CBF. However, these credit programs suf-
fered from the institutional deficiencies of BAMIN and CBF (paras. 2.19 and
2.20). Since the AID and IDB funds have been used up, most miners must cover
their investment costs from their own funds or from the rollover of short-term
financing. In many cases, investments have been postponed or not initiated
because of lack of funds.
2.23      Interest rates.  Existing official ceilings limit interest rates to
10% of total cost on term loans for developmental purposes, and 13% for short-
term productive credit and commercial lending. The effective cost of the
latter mostly exceeds the legal ceiling of 13%, since commercial banks normal-
ly charge a 1% flat commission on each loan renewal (usually after 90 or 180
days) and often require the clients to keep non-interest earning compensating
balances.
2.24      The Government is currently revising the interest ceilings and has
agreed that term lending to the mining sector under the proposed credit program
would be made at a rate of not less than 11-1/4%. This interest rate is appro-
priate, since subloans would be made in foreign exchange, the subborrowers
bearing the foreign exchange risk. The most important source of long-term
financing for medium miners has been IDB, whose funds have been onlent in foreign
exchange at interest rates from 8% to 10%.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      Brief description.  The project consists of three components:
(a)  A credit program to help finance the development and/or ex-
pansion of private medium-size mines.
(b)  A national survey of small mines, designed to prepare an
inventory of small mines, select mines with most potential,
and provide technical and exploration assistance to their
owners.
(c) A technical assistance program composed of:
(i) technical assistance to,and equipment for,
the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy;
(ii) an examination of the tax system in the mining
sector; and
(iii) preparation work for the proposed exploration fund.



-9-
The three project components are described in paras 3.07-3.33; 3.34-3.39;
and 3.40-3.44.
3.02      Cost estimates.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$9.27 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.2
million (66.9%). The major categories are shown in the following table:
% Foreign
$b million        _     US$ million         Exchange
Category            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Component
(a) Credit
Program        54.00   100.00 154.00    2.70       5.00   7.70       65.0
(b) National
Survey
of Small
Mines/1         6.20    16.20  22.40    0.27       0.85   1.12       75.9
(c) Technical
Assistance
Program/2
(i) Ministry
of Mining
Metal-
lurgy      2.20      4.20   6.40    0.09      0.28   0.37       75.7
(ii) Exami-
nation
of tax
system     0.40      1.60   2.00    0.01      0.05   0.06        83.3
(iii) Prepara-
tion of
explora-
tion fund  0.00      0.40   0.40    0.00      0.02   0.02      100.00
Subtotal   2.60      6.20   8.80    0.10      0.35   0.45        77.8
Total Project Cost  62.80   122.4( 185.20    3.07        6.20   9.27       66.9
/1   Details in Annex 5
/2   Details in Annex 6.



- 10 -
Financing.  The total project cost of US$9.27 million would be
financed by an IDA credit of US$6.2 million (66.9%); a Government contribution
of US$0.37 million (4.0%); a contribution by BISA of US$0.77 million (8.3%);
and subborrower contributions of US$1.93 million (20.8%).  A summary of the
financing plan of the project is as follows:
IDA        Government        BISA       Subborrowers
%  of         %  of          x  of          %  of   Total
Category           US$M  Total   US$M  Total   US$Y4  Total  IJS$M   Total   US$M
(a) Credit
Program       5.00  65.00      -     -      0.77  10.00   1.93   25.0    7.70
(b) National
Survey
of Small
Mines         0.85  75.9    0.27   24.1    -        -       -       -      1.12
(c) Technical
Assistance
Program       0.35  77.8    0.10   22.2    -        -      -        -      0.45
Total Project
Cost              6..20           0.37           0.77           1.93            9.27
Percentage of
Project Cost            66.9             4.0           8.3            20.8
During negotiations, the Government agreed to make available the above indi-
cated funds (US$0.37 million equivalent).
3.04      Procurement.  The mining equipment and machinery to be financed
under the credit program would be procured abroad as off-the-shelf items,
mostly with values of less than US$50,000. Investment items would vary from
case to case and would be decided upon by the subborrowers, with the con-
currence of BISA, thus following the pattern of IDA credits to development
finance companies. BISA makes a practice of satisfying itself that the
equipment and machinery to be financed meet the technical needs of the project
and are competitive with goods of similar quality. For this purpose BISA
requires that subborrowers obtain quotations from at least three suppliers.
This procurement procedure is satisfactory.
3.05      In the case of the national survey of small mines, equipment would
be procured on the basis of international shopping -- requiring quotations from
at least three foreign countries -- owing to the large number of equipment
items, except for some diamond drills and accessories valued at about US$240,000
which would be subject to international competitive bidding. Advisory services
required under the survey and the technical assistance program would be
obtained on a broad international basis.



- 11 - 
3.06      Disbursement.  The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in
Annex 8. Accounts would be set up at the Central Bank for the three project
components. Disbursement of IDA funds would be made for the CIF cost of
equipment and machinery and a 100% of the foreign exchange cost of technical
assistance and consulting services. BISA normally disburses directly to
suppliers and contractors in installments, checking that each stage of the
project has been completed before releasing the next installment. BISA's
commitments and disbursements to the subborrowers would take about two and
three years respectively.
B. Credit for Medium-Size Miners
General Features
3.07      Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) would receive IDA funds from the Govern-
ment at not less than 7-1/4% and lend at not less than 11-1/4% in foreign ex-
change. Since BISA has not had an opportunity to build up its business to an
adequate level, and it is entering for the first time the mining sector, BISA
would only be charged a commitment fee of 3/4% on the portion of the credit
which has been authorized by IDA for withdrawal.  The company would repay
the funds to the Government in approximate conformity with repayments received
from subborrowers. In light of the costs and risks associated with its enter-
ing the new field of mining finance and its present and projected financial
position, BISA would need a spread of 4%. Since the company would incur sub-
stantial costs specifically for the mining credit--e.g., BISA would have to
double its operations department by employing three additional professional
staff members (paras. 3.20 and 3.22)--its overall profitability would remain
modest. A lower spread would reduce profitability to a level which would
jeopardize BISA's capacity to raise share capital.
3.08      Subloans to the mining companies would be made on the basis of de-
tailed appraisals of subprojects, following standard DFC practice. The sub-
loans would (a) have a maximum term of fifteen years including a grace period
not expected to exceed three years; and (b) be made in foreign exchange, the
subborrower bearing the foreign exchange risk, at an interest rate of not less
than 11-1/4% (para 2.24).
3.09      A free limit of US$250,000 is recommended for BISA, below which
subloans would not require IDA's prior approval. The first three subloans
submitted to IDA would, regardless of their amounts, have to be approved by
IDA. An aggregate limit of US$2 million for subprojects below the free limit
should be established.
3.10      Subborrowers.  The subborrowers would come from a group of about
40 mining companies which have the capability of preparing and executing
subprojects without substantial technical assistance. The group includes the
20 miners from the medium mining subsector and about 20 from the small mining
subsector (para 2.05). Of this group, it is expected that about 20 companies



- 12 -
wouLd present bankable projects to, and obtain financing from, BISA under the
credit program.  A detailed description of the medium-size companies, their
operations, demand for funds and subprojects is in Annex 4.
3.11      The potential subborrowers are generally financially sound and credit-
worthy. Most of the companies, which have total assets ranging from US$0.1 to
US$S .0 million, operate with a low leverage; the vast majority have a debt/equity
ratio of less than 1:1, which is partly a reflection of the shortage of term
funds and the low level of new investments in the last three years. As a result
of the complexity of Bolivian ore bodies, high transport costs and the high in-
frastructure burden placed on the companies (each is obliged to build roads, so-
cial facilities and to subsidize food and other goods for workers), the companies
are high-cost producers relative to their competitors in the world markets, al-
though they are the most efficient subsector in the Bolivian mining sector.
Therefore, they are vulnerable to reductions in mineral prices, and extended
periods of low prices can place many of the companies in financial difficulties.
Except for this risk, these companies have a sound financial position; they
could contract sizeable borrowings, still remaining within acceptable debt/
equity relationships, and generate sufficient cash flows to service loans.
3.12      The larger companies have qualified personnel capable of adminis-
tering substantial investment programs; others are weak in their staffing. The
practice of the more advanced companies of contracting out services to other
companies can help in this respect. Also, BISA would use its subloans as lever-
age for strengthening staffing and other aspects of the subborrowers' operations,
particularly accounting and financial planning which are weak in many companies.
3.13      Subprojects.  The credit program would finance about 25 subprojects
belonging to about 20 subborrowers, some of whom would have more than one
project.  The subprojects, which would vary considerably in size and nature,
would include underground mine development and modernization, construction
and modernization of beneficiation plants, electrification and installation
of camp infrastructure and surface mine development. Investment in existing
or new beneficiation plants would carry a much higher equipment component
than mine development. AU equipment would be of foreign origin, while civil
works and mine development would use local sources except for some supplies
which would have to come from abroad.
3.14      The effects of the subprojects on production, exports, export
earnings and employment, as well as their expected financial and economic
returns, are discussed in paras 4.01-4.06.
3.15      No ecological problems are expected as a result of the project
(Annex 4, para 5.03).
3.16      Demand for funds.  The medium-size mining companies have some
35-50 projects with a total cost of US$15 million to US$20 million, which
would be implemented over a period of about three years, starting in the
middle of 1973. Some of the projects have been studied and financed while
others are still in the preliminary stage. The total investment could be
broken down as follows:



- 13 -
USS Million
Total Cost of Projects                           15.0-20.0
Less:
- Alreadv Financed 1/                  3.0- 4.5
- To be Financed by Other Sources      1.5- 2.0
- Projects to be Dropped or
Slipped 2/                           1.5- 2.0
Projects Expected to be Submitted to BISA         9.0-11.5
Of which Expected BISA Commitments
(about 75% of the projects submitted)             7.0- 9.0
1/   Financing from BAMIN, CBF, commercial banks and companies' own funds.
2/   Because of non-viability and/or inability of company to proceed with
project.
Since foreign exchange costs are expected to represent 65% of the total costs
of an average project, BISA's demand for foreign exchange would be between
US$4.6 million and US$6 million from 1974 to early 1976. Accordingly, an
allocation of US$5 million for BISA would be appropriate.
Financial Intermediary--Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA)
3.17      Operations and management.  BISA 1/ was established in 1963 as a pri-
vate development bank with the prime objective of providing Bolivian industry
with term financing. About 80% of its lending has gone to industry; the rest
to transport, construction, and tourism. Its operations have been in line with
the geographical distribution of manufacturing industry in Bolivia which is
centered in the La Paz region. BISA's promotional work and equity investments
have been of little significance and success, partly resulting from the dif-
ficult business conditions in the last few years.
3.18      Despite its relatively small size (total assets of US$5 million equiv-
alent), BISA has made a valuable contribution to the development of the private
industrial sector of Bolivia. Within ten years of operations, BISA has made
almost 700 loans. Clients have not only benefited from BISA's financial assis-
tance; its appraisal work has helped to improve standards of project evaluation
and, in some cases, accounting and financial planning practices.  BISA has been
successful in securing resources from abroad; it has obtained several credit
lines for industrial development from AID, IDB and KfW, and it has attracted
foreign shareholders now holding 40% of BISA's share capital.
1/   A detailed analysis of BISA is available in Annex 1.



- 14 -
3 t9      in spite of its good record as a development bank, BISA has, with
some reason, beer criticized for lack of aggressiveness and for insufficient
interest in the areas outside the capital of La Paz. BISA's shareholders,
with the concurrence of the Government, have now decided to develop the
company into a strong and independent national develonment bank serving both
industry and mining. In line with this policy, the shareholders have approved
new by-laws, allowing BISA to enter the field of mining finance, which have
been ratified by the Government.
3.20      BISA's management, which is competent and experienced, has been
reinforced by the recent employment of a capable professional as operations
department manager. Its small staff, which at the end of 1972 totalled 23
including 10 professionals, is well qualified.
3.21      BISA's operational and financial policies are satisfactory, except
that the company is permitted to expose itself excessively to any one client. 1/
Given the nature of BISA's operations, a reasonable exposure limit would be 35%
of its equity. This limit takes into account that the equity investments (which
are riskier than loans) are and will remain an insignificant part of BISA's op-
erations (2% of total assets in 1972). During negotiations, BISA agreed to this
limit.
3.22      Since BISA has no experience in mining finance, the company proposes
to strengthen its appraisal capacity with one mining engineer and one addi-
tional financial analyst. Expertise is available in Bolivia and the company
has contacted suitable candidates. Together with the existing staff, the new
staff members would provide BISA with a sufficient capability to appraise
mining projects. The company has agreed to fill these two positions before
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
3.23      BISA's follow-up work needs improvement.  To remedy this deficiency,
BISA has agreed to strengthen staffing and organization of its supervision
activities.
3.24      BISA's procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.  The
company's accounts have since 1967 been audited annually by Arthur Young
and Company. While the audits generally are of good quality, BISA has agreed
that future audits substantially conform to the detailed report normally required
from DFC clients of the Bank Group.
3.25      Financial results and prospects.  BISA's financial position is sound.
Its loan portfolio ($b88.15 million at the end of 1972) is generally of good
quality. In the limited cases of bad accounts, BISA has taken legal action and
does not expect any significant losses. BISA's small equity portfolio ($b2.14
million at the end of 1972), representing only 2% of BISA's total assets, con-
sists of two investments of poor quality made by BISA during its earlier years
of existence. BISA's provisions, reserves and retained earnings would be ade-
quate to cover any expected losses on its loan and equity portfolios.
1/   BISA is authorized according to its by-laws to expose itself to any one
client company in the form of loans, investments or gurantees up to 20%
of the aggregate amount of its paid-in share capital and loans from for-
eign sources. This policy would allow BISA to comit up to about $b20
million at the end of 1973, to one client which compares to a projected
equity amounting to $b15.3 million on that same date.



- 15-
3.26      Over the last years, BISA's earnings performance has fluctuated large-
ly in line with Bolivian business conditions. The company's return on equity,
which in 1968-70 had averaged 16%, reached a low level of 47% in 1971 and recov-
ered somewhat in 1972 (8.3%). The main reason for the lower profitability in
1971-72 was, apart from the slowdown of operations in 1970-71, the gradual re-
duction of BISA's interest income, accentuated in late 1972 when a Government-
imposed ceiling reduced the interest rate of development loans from 12% to 10%.
3.27      BISA's profitability is expected to remain at rather modest levels
over the next five years, its return on equity increasing from 8.3% in 1972
to 9.6% in 1977. The main reason for this insignificant improvement in
profitability despite a substantial expansion of operations is the increasing
average cost of borrowings. Since the interest-free and low-interest funds
from AID and IDB are gradually becoming a smaller proportion of BISA's
borrowings, being mainly replaced by higher-cost IDA funds proposed to carry
a per annum charge of not less than 7-1/4%, its average borrowing costs would
increase from 3.8% in 1972 to 5.2% in 1977. Provisions for portfolio losses
are projected to reach 3.1% of BISA's portfolio in 1977, compared to 1.7% at
the end of 1972, which seem reasonable since BISA will enter into the new
activity of mining finance. BISA's administrative costs would decrease from
2.8% of average total assets in 1972 to 1.7% in 1977; a satisfactory cost
level for BISA.
3.28      Although the aggregate of BISA's provisions, reserves and retained
earnings are adequate for coverage of estimated portfolio losses, it would
be desirable for the company to strengthen its provisions and reserves in
view of its entering into the mining sector. BISA proposes to do this by
increasing (a) its provisions (para. 3.27), and (b) its contingency reserve,
using a portion of its foreign exchange gain for this purpose (Annex 1, para
4.06).
3.29      BISA's dividend payments have been low in recent years.  After
paying a dividend of 2.9% in 1971, BISA declared a 9% dividend in 1972,
representing a 74.2% distribution of earnings. However, in contrast to
previous years, the 1972 dividend was completely capitalized, indicating the
shareholders' intention to strengthen and expand BISA's equity. The dividend
policy is expected to remain conservative over the next five years.
3.30      BISA's liquidity is good, partly because of the revolving use of
long-term borrowings from AID, IDB and KfW, and is Drojected to remain high;
its loan collections and profits before interest payments would amply exceed
its debt service payments. The company's total debt/equity ratio, which in
1968-71 never exceeded 4.7:1, increased to the rather high level of 6:6 at
the end of 1972.  However, BISA's leverage is expected to go down over the
next few years, remaining within a range of 4.2-5.4 which appears reasonable
given the risks of BISA's operations and its need to remain modestly profit-
able. BISA has agreed not to exceed a total debt/equity ratio of 6:1.
3.31      BISA's loan approvals are projected to grow at an average annual
rate of 28%, over the next five years. Of this increase, 65% would go to the
mining sector while the remaining 35% would be for BISA's increased lending



- 16 -
to inrdustry. The projected operations in mining are based on a sample of
rather firmly defined subprojects. Demand for funds is expected to exceed
BISA's financial capacity to serve the mining sector. BISA's projected loan
approvals for industry are partly based on a pipeline of projects and since
demands for funds continues strong from this sector, BISA should have no
difficulties in achieving the projected lending levels.
3.32      To support the expected volume of lending operations, BISA has
projected significant annual increases of its share capital. This projection
is based on assurances from new and existing shareholders which should cover
the capital increases up to the end of 1975. 1/ Other potential shareholderss-
national and foreign--have expressed interest in making further equity par-
ticipations. Although a substantial portion of the new share capital would
come from foreign sources, 2/ foreign ownership is not expected to exceed its
present participation of about 40%. The success of the proposed capital
mobilization program will largely depend on the US$0.5 million equivalent
equity contribution promised by the Medium Miners Association. Therefore, and
to provide BISA with an equity base adequate to initially support the projected
lending operations, BISA should, as a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit, obtain additional capital subscriptions amounting to $b10 million
(the equivalent of US$0.5 million), of which $b5 million would be paid in during
1974 and $b5 million during 1975.
3.33      Suimmary. BISA is creditworthy and, subject to the proposed strength-
ening of its organization, suitable as intermediary under the credit program.
The company's prospects are good; it expects to increase lending operations sub-
stantially while maintaining a sound financial situation. Profitability would
remain at a rather modest level, while liquidity would continue to be good. To
maintain a satisfactory financial structure, BISA would need to mobilize consid-
erable amounts of fresh share capital which should be possible given the serious
indications of interest expressed by several existing and potential
shareholders.
C. National Survey of Small Mines 3/
3.34      Objectives.  The general objective of the survey is to help improve
the knowledge of Bolivia's mining sector and mineral resources, with special
emphasis on small mining. It would aim at alleviating the basic problems of the
small mining sector (para 2.06) and of inadequate exploration (para 2.14). The
survey would be a necessary and important forerunner for (a) a credit program
for small miners (para. 2.24); (b) the establishment of an exploration fund
(para 2.15); and (c) determining the optimal location for regional concentra-
tors.
1/   The Association of Medium Miners has indicated its firm intention to make
an equity investment of US$0.5 million equivalent and ADELA Investment
Company, which is the largest shareholder in BISA, would maintain its pre-
sent equity participation of about 25% over the next few years.
2/   ADELA Investment Company; and possibly Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
of Germany; Continental Bank of Chicago, Irving Trust of New York, and
Manufacturers Hanover Trust.
3/   Details of the survey in Annex 5.



- 17-
3.35      Description.  The survey would include collecting and analyzing all
data on the small mining operations currently available in the various public
and private agencies, supplementing these by field inspections. The mines
with the best potential for expansion and the mineral deposits warranting fur-
ther exploration would be identified. An integral and important part of the
survey would be the provision of technical and direct exploration assistance
to selected small miners, with the objectives of preparing them for a credit
program by (a) identifying the small miners with best expansion potentials and
assisting them in the preparation of bankable projects; (b) assisting them to
prove up sufficient reserves and to improve operational, managerial and finan-
cial control sufficiently so as to become creditworthy; and (c) training them
in modern and efficient work methods.
3.36      The survey would be conducted by Servicio Geologico de Bolivia
(GEOBOL)1/ , coordinating with other agencies operating in the mining sector.
Four foreign advisors -- an economic geologist, an expert in mine organization
and administration, a geophysicist and a drilling suDervisor -- would assist
GEOBOL. The survey requires the formation of a new deDartment within GEOBOL
with a staff of about 120 people of which 25 would be professionals; 20
technicians and the remainder semi-skilled or unskilled laborers. 2/ The
survey is scheduled to be completed by mid-1975.  The Government would pass
on the IDA funds to GEOBOL as a grant.
3.37      Executing agency.  GEOBOL was established in 1960 with the assist-
ance of the U.S. Geological Survey with the major objectives of contributing
to and coordinating geological investigation of Bolivia, compiling geological
data, preparing geological maps, prospecting and exploring mineral resources,
and providing technical advice to private and public operations. GEOBOL has
a permanent staff of approximately 250 of which about 120 are professionals.
In general, the staff is reasonably well qualified but young and with little
experience. However, under its dynamic director GEOBOL's performance has
been satisfactory in the past two years, although there is considerable room
for improvement. The foreign advisors, who would be provided under the
national survey of small mines, would help to further strengthen GEOBOL.
3.38      Although recent progress has been made in geological mapping, only
slightly more than 25% of the country has been geologically mapped. Basical-
ly resulting from budget constraints, work on mapping has dropped off sig-
nificantly over the past five years with more emphasis being placed upon
contract exploration. This is unfortunate since the fundamental role of
GEOBOL should be to greatly accelerate the pace of basic geologic mapping
and regional economic geology studies rather than to conduct detailed
exploration work for ore deposits. However, with the start of the national
survey of small mines, ,a considerable part of CEOBOL's efforts would be
redirected to the important field of "infrastructure" geology.
1/   Details of GEOBOL in Annex 2.
2/   Most of the professionals and techniciaris would be drawn from within
GEOBOL; no problems are expected in recruiting the remainder.



- 18 -
GEOBOL's operations are financed from three major sources:  Govern-
ment appropriations; foreign assistance; and revenue from contract exploration
work. The proposed future work program excluding the survey implies a major
increase in budget requirements, most of which is expected to come from funds
earrned from contract work. This appears optimistic and clearly indicates
the need to obtain assurances from the Government that sufficient local funds
would be made available (para 3.03).
D. Technical Assistance Program 1/
3.40      Description.  The proposed technical assistance program includes
three components. The first would be technical assistance to, and equipment
for, the MMinistry of Mining and Metallurgy with the objective of strengthening
the Ministry (para 2.13). Expertise would be made available to the Ministry
to establish a documentation center and institute a system for mining sector
data gathering and control.   Major emphasis would be placed upon strengthening
the existing project evaluation and planning unit. In addition, an expert
would assist in a thorough review of the existing marketing policies and
channels and give advice on improvements. This program would be completed in
two years and would require six manyears of experts.
3.41      The second component would be an examination of the system of tax-
ing the mining sector (para 2.17). The study would determine:
(a) the extent of inequities in the existing system;
(b) the relative tax burden carried by the mining sector
vis-a-vis other sectors in Bolivia, and vis-a-vis mining
in other countries;
(c) the practicality of instituting alternative systems; and,
if deemed required,
(d) a program for implementing changes in the system.
This study, which would call for two experts working in the field for five/
six months, could be completed with the recommendations ready for implement-
ation by early 1975.
3.42      The third component would be preparatory work for a proposed explora-
tion fund (para 2.15). This entails having an expert review with the Govern-
ment the agency most suited to supervise the exploration fund. The expert
would help to establish the necessary institutional framework, the administra-
tive procedures, the staffing requirements, criteria for project selection,
1/   Details of this program in Annex 6.



- 19 -
operating rules, financial requirements, and the expected results of the pro-
gram. This would in effect result in the preparation of a feasibility report,
which could then be used to establish and finance the exploration fund. This
work would only require three/four months and should be completed by late 1974.
3.43      Institution involved.  The Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy woUld co-
ordinate the technical assistance program. (It would liaise with the Ministry
of Finance in the case of the tax study.) Established in 1936 and reorganized
several times, the Ministry was set up in Zts present form in 1970.  The Minis-
ter is president of the public agencies renorting to his Ministry. 1/
3.44      The central office of the Ministry in La Paz includes all statistical
and analytical functions. Branch offices are located in Oruro, Cochabamba,
Potosi, Sucre, Tupiza, and Santa Cruz, to administer mining land and enforce
the mining code. The Ministry has a staff of about 150 people of which about
35 are professionals, and operates on an annual budget of about US$0.5 million
equivalent.
IV. BENEFITS AND MARKETS
4.01      Because of the nature, variety and different stages of preparation
of the subprojects, it is difficult to estimate the impact of the credit pro-
gram on the Bolivian economy. The most profitable subprojects would be those
entailing expansion of existing facilities, which would allow economies of
scale by a more efficient use of overhead and infrastructure. On the other
hand, subprojects designed to extract and recover lower grade ore, previously
left in the mine, would result in only slight increases in oroduction with
possibly higher extraction costs. The financial internal rate of return of
the former subprojects would range from 15% to (in exceptional cases) 40%,
while in the case of the latter subprojects it would be in the order of 10-15%.
The adjustments that would have to be made to convert the financial data into
economic terms would basically consist of taxes and wages since the sub-
borrowers earn all income and incur most of the costs in foreign exchange.
Because of the relatively high tax burden on the mining sector, the economic
rate of return would be significantly higher than the above indicated finan-
cial rates of return.
4.02      The credit program is expected to increase Bolivia's annual
production, in about three/four years, of antimony by 10-15%, tungsten 7-10%,
tin 6-7% and lesser amounts for other minerals, like bismuth, copper, lead,
silver, zinc and gold.
1/   Comision Boliviana de Energia Nuclear (Bolivian Nuclear Energy Commiission,
COBOEN); Empresa Nacional de Fundiciones (National Smelting Company,
ENAF); Instituto de Investigaciones Minero-Metallurgicas (Institute for
Mining and Metallurgical Research, IIMM); COMIBOL; GEOBOL; and BAMIN.



- 20 -
4.03      For antimony, tin, and tungsten, 1/ a slowly expanding market is ex-
pected to prevail through the seventies, with the possibility of small supply
surpluses, particularly for tin, anl hence pressure to maintain Prices at their
existing levels. The project would help make Bolivia--at present the highest
cost producer of tin in the world--more competitive. The world's antimony and
tungsten supply depends to a very large extent upon China and because of the
unpredictability of this source there could possibly be periods of supply defi-
cits and inflated prices. These, however, should be short-lived. The large
surpluses of tungsten in the US stockpile will continue to play an important
role, but, if handled as has been done over the past four years, they should
create no major disturbance of the market.
4.04      Since all production would be exported, the impact on the balance of
payments would be significant; gross export earnings would increase by about
US$9 million a year at full production or, deducting the foreign exchange in-
puts required by the subprojects (about US$2 million), should result in net
export earnings of about US$7 million a year.  Increased Government revenue
from taxes is expected to be about US$3 million a year. 2/
4.05      Employment benefits would be minor; some 200-300 additional jobs
would be created. An important benefit of the subprojects would be the modern-
ization of both the mines and plants, which should in some cases very signifi-
cantly improve the health and safety conditions. In addition, the modernization
would help to upgrade the skill levels of the work force. Improvements in the
living conditions would be effected in some camps through electrification,
erection of housing and other social facilities.
4.06      The direct benefits from the national survey of small mines and the
technical assistance program would be realized mainly in the form of improved
efficiency, increased technical competence and the acquisition of a better
knowledge of the sector.  The Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy and GEOBOL would
become more effective institutions and better equipped to serve the needs of
the sector. Hence, overall sector performance would improve.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOTMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations,
(a) the Government agreed to:
(i) promulgate the revised Mining Code by June 30, 1974
(para 2.16);
1/  Brief market reviews of each of these commodities are presented in Annex 7.
2/   This includes taxes on mineral exports (US$1.4 million), the foreign ex-
change tax (US$1.5 million) and other taxes (US$0.1 million).



- 21 -
(ii) make available sufficient local funds for the national
survey of small mines and the technical assistance
program (para 3.03);
(iii)  relend US$5 million to BISA on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA in support of the credit program
for medium-size miners (paras 3.07-3.08);
(b)  BISA agreed to:
(i)  the terms and conditions of the credit program
for medium-size miners (paras 3.07-3.09);
(ii)  limit its total exposure to any one client to 35%
of its equity (para 3.21);
(iii)  strengthen its follow-up work (para 3.23);
(iv) have its audit reports improved (para 3.24>;
(v)  have a total debt/equity limit of 6:1 (para 3.30).
5.02      Before effectiveness of the credit, BISA should:
(a)  employ one experienced mining engineer and one additional
financial analyst (para 3.22); and
(b)  obtain additional capital subscriptions amounting to at least
$b1O million, of which $b5 million would be paid in during 1974
and $b5 million during 1975 (para 3.32).
5.03      The proposed project is a suitable basis for an IDA credit for
US$6.2 million to Bolivia.






ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.  Organization
Establishment and Objectives
Ownership
Board of Directors
Policies
Management and Staff
Appraisal
Supervision
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
Audit
B.   Resources
C.   Operations
Lending Operations
Equity Investments and Promotion
Other Operations
D.   Financial Results
Quality of Portfolio
Financial Structure
Profitability
Reserves and Provisions
Dividend Policy
Foreign Exchange Risk
E.  Prospects
Operations
Sources of Funds
Financial Structure and Results






ANNEX 1
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.  List of Major Shareholders
Table 2. List of Board Members
Table 3. Organization Chart
Table 4.  Long-term Borrowings
Table 5. Analysis of Loans Approved 1970-1972
Table 6. Status of Equity Investments
Table 7. Past (1968-1972) and Projected (1973-1977) Balance Sheets
as of December 31
Table 8.  Past (1968-1972) and Projecced (1973-1977) Profit and Loss
Statements for Periods ending December 31
Table 9. Projected Operations 1973-1977
Table 10. Projected Sources and Application of Funds 1973-1977
Table 11. Past (1968-1972) and Prolected (1973-1977) Financial Ratios
Table 12. Summary of BISA's Policies






ANNEX I
Page 1
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
A.   Organization
Establishment and Objectives
1.01      BISA was established in 1963 in La Paz as a private financial insti-
tution, following an initiative of the National Chamber of Industries and
USAID. Its objectives as defined in its statutes are (a) to provide financial
and technical assistance to private enterprises primarily in the industrial
field; (b) to encourage the substitution of imported goods and to promote
Bolivian exports; (c) to stimulate local and foreign investment in productive
enterprises with a view to creating new jobs and increasing the standard of
living of the Bolivian population.
1.02      In March 1973, BISA's shareholders approved new by-laws, authorizing
the company to enter the mining field, which have been approved by the Govern-
ment. The new by-laws have not yet become effective.
Ownership
1.03      A list of BISA's shareholders (Table 1) shows that at the end of
1972, Bolivian shareholders held 60% and foreign shareholders 40% of the share
capital. Among the Bolivian shareholders six private banks (Class A share-
holders) 1/ held 29% of the share capital and 133 mostly manufacturing companies
(Class B shareholders) the remaining 31%. The foreign ownership of 40%
(Class C shareholders) consisted principally of investments made by ADELA
Investment Company, a multinational development finance company for Latin
America, and Banco Popular del Peru, holding 26% and 10% respectively of
BISA's share capital.
1.04      All shareholders have equal rights to vote and to participate in
dividend distributions. No single shareholder could exert a dominant influence
in BISA, since voting rights are restricted to a maximum of 10% of total out-
standing shares per shareholder.
Board of Directors
1.05      The Board of Directors is composed of eight directors (Table 2),
three representing private Bolivian banks (Class A shareholders), three other
private Bolivian shareholders (Class B), and two foreign shareholders (Class
C). The new Board, as incorporated in the new by-laws, includes a fourth
category of shareholders, private Bolivian miners (Class D); each category
is represented by two directors. The Board meets weekly. it decides policy
1/   Each class of shareholders could elect three Board members (Annex 1,
para. 1.05).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
matters, appoints the managing director and deputy manager, and approves
loans above US$20,000 equivalent. Board decisions are taken by simple
majority, each director having one vote; the Board's chairman decides in
case of draw. The Board, whose members take an active interest in BISA's
operations, is of high quality and includes some of Bolivia's leading bank-
ers and industrialists.
Policies
1.06      BISA's operational and financial policies are laid down in the
statutes and in a formal policy statement (Table 12). In anticipation of
entering into the mining sector, BISA has revised its policies which are satis-
factory except for the fact that the company is permitted to expose itself ex-
cessively to one client; it could commit more than its entire equity in favor
of one client, which is not a financially sound practice. 1/ It would seem
more reasonable for BISA to limit its total exposure to any one client to 35%
of its equity. This limitation takes into account that the equity investments--
which are riskier than loans--are and will remain insignificant in the company's
operations (2% of total assets at the end of 1972). The proposed limitation
would limit BISA's participation in some of the larger subprojects. During
negotiations, BISA agreed to limit its total exposure to any one client to
35% of its equity.
Management and Staff
1.07      Mr. Jorge Lopez Pacheco, responsible for day-to-day operations,
has been BISA's managing director since 1969. He has provided BISA with
competent leadership during a period of difficult business conditions. He
is efficiently assisted by two managers, in charge of operations and adminis-
tration (Table 3). The newly created position of operations department manager
was filled in August 1973 by a capable professional (Enrique Garcia), who has
had extensive experience in development finance.
1.08      At the end of 1972, BISA's staff totalled 23, including 10 profes-
sionals. The staff is competent and experienced in its work; 16 of the 23 em-
ployees have worked more than five years in BISA. Much importance is attached
to staff training and several staff members have been sent abroad for training.
All staff members are at present stationed at the head office in La Paz, except
for one representative in Santa Cruz.
1/   BISA is authorized according to its by-laws to expose itself to any one
client company in the form of loans, investments or guarantees up to
20% of the aggregate amount of its paid-in share capital and loans from
foreign sources. This policy would allow BISA to commit up to about
$b20 million at the end of 1973, which compares to a projected equity
amounting to $b15.3 million on that same date.



ANNEX 'i
Page 3
Appraisal
1.09      Appraisal reports are prepared by a team consisting of an engineer,
a financial analyst/economist and a loan officer; in cases of more complicated
projects BISA seeks advice from outside consultants. The quality of BISA's
appraisal work is on the whole satisfactory, although economic analysis has
yet to be introduced and engineering evaluation improved. Quality and pre-
sentation of reports is also uneven, with some reports being too superficial.
BISA's management is well aware of these deficiencies and is taking steps to
improve appraisal work. Economic analysis, improved engineering analysis and
a uniform methodology for all appraisal work will be introduced under the
guidance of BISA's new manager of operations, who is thoroughly familiar with
all aspects of appraisal work.
1.10      Since BISA has no experience in the appraisal of mining projects,
it would have to build up a new professional capacity in this field. In addi-
tion to the new manager of operations, BISA proposes to hire one mining engin-
eer and one additional financial analyst. The two main candidates for these
job are competent professionals with many years of experience in the appraisal
of mining projects. Together with the existing staff members, they would pro-
vide BISA with an adequate appraisal capability in this field. BISA has agreed
to fill these two positions before the effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
Supervision
1.11      BISA requires its clients to report regularly on their activities.
In cases of larger operations, BISA requires its clients to have their finan-
cial statements audited independently. Supervision visits are made normally
when the project reaches its operating stage, but not on a regular and system-
atic basis. Because of staff shortages, supervision work has almost exclu-
sively concentrated on problem projects.
1.12      BISA's follow-up work needs improvement, both in regard to quality
and number of visits. To remedy this deficiency, follow-up activities have
under the new organization been incorporated under the operations department
(see organization chart, Table 3). This should provide the basis for better
supervision, since staff members doing appraisal work would also participate
in follow-up work, which was not the case earlier. The proposed staff addi-
tions, together with the introduction of a more systematic approach to super-
vision, should allow BISA to do a satisfactory supervision job.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
1.13      Procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.  BISA tries
to ensure that its clients procure equipment from the most competitive sources
by requiring submission of quotations from at least three suppliers. Disburse-
ments are usually made in installments, often directly to the suppliers, and
BISA ensures that it does not disburse in excess of the value of assets
actually acquired.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Audit
1.14      BISA has been audited annually since 1967 by Arthur Young and Com-
pany. As a financial institution BISA is also subject to a public inspection
which is carried out by the Department of Inspection of the Central Bank
(previously the Superintendency of Banks). As the scope of the independent
audit requires some improvement, BISA has agreed to have its auditor follow
the standard format normally used by DFC clients of the Bank Group. In par-
ticular, the auditor would be requested to (a) segregate current assets; (b)
give an assessment of the provisions necessary to cover possible losses on
loans and equity investments; and (c) include a statement regarding foreign
exchange exposure. BISA's auditor indicated to the appraisal mission that
the proposed changes would not-be difficult to introduce.
B.  Resources
2.01      Resources outstanding at the end of 1972 are summarized below:
Amount       % of
In $b million    Total
Equity                                    9.66       9.5
Quasi-equity                              3.60       3.6
Long-term Borrowings
(i)  AID                           45.88       45.3
(ii)  IDB                            15.02      14.8
(iii)  KfW                             3.88       3.8
(iv)  Central Bank                    8.63       8.5
73.41      72.4
Miscellaneous                            14.64       14.5
Total Liabilities and Equity       101.31     100.0
The uncommitted balance of long-term borrowings amounted to the sizeable
amount of $b57.6 million at the end of 1972, corresponding to borrowings not
yet drawn down from IDB ($b30.0 million) and KfW ($b27.6 million) for indus-
trial lending. BISA also had short-term credit lines amounting to about
$b1O million with foreign commercial banks, which were unused at the end of
1972.
2.02      Quasi Equity.  When BISA was set up in 1963, it received an interest-
free loan from AID in the amount of $b3.6 million. Since this loan is subordi-
nated to all other debt and ranks pari-passu with share capital in case of
liquidation, it is considered quasi-equity (Table 4).



ANNEX l
Page 5
2.03      Long-term Borrowings.  BISA has been successful in obtaining long-
term resources from external agencies (Table 4). In fact, external agencies
have been BISA's only source of long-term borrowings since its inception.
The Central Bank rediscount lines, which are derived from AID funds, are
available to the whole banking system mainly for industrial and agricultural
lending. Although BISA is empowered to issue bonds, it has not been able to
do so. There is no capital market in Bolivia and the company would not be
in a position to offer a coupon rate acceptable to the investors, given the
interest ceiling on its lending of 10%.
C.   Operations
Lending Operations
3.01      An analysis of BISA's loan approvals during the last three years
and since inception is given in Table 5. BISA basically provides term finan-
cing of fixed assets to industry. During its ten years of existence, the
company made 656 loans totalling $b185.5 million of which 25.0% were for food
products, 17% for textiles and the remainder distributed over a large number
of mainly manufacturing subsectors. The geographical distribution has been
in favour of the department of La Paz which in 1972 received 69.1% of the
total. Although the distribution of BISA's lending has approximately been in
line with the regional distribution of manufacturing industry in Bolivia,
BISA's policy is now to achieve a more widespread distribution and eventually
become a truly national development finance company. In line with this policy,
BISA has decided to set up a regional office in Santa Cruz, which would mainly
serve the expanding agro-industry in that area.
3.02      Terms and Conditions of Lending.  The interest rate to subborrowers
is 10% which is the ceiling established by the Government for development
loans (prior to October 1972 it was 12%). 1/ Most subloans are repayable in
foreign currency or contain a dollar clause; at the end of 1972 only 13.3%
of the total loan portfolio was repayable in local currency without a dollar
clause. As a result of low-cost borrowings, BISA had an average spread of
6.2% in 1972. BISA normally charges a commission of 3% on its guarantee
operations, The terms of subloans usually vary between 3 years for working
capital to 8 years for fixed assets operations, including a grace period of
up to 2 years. Reflecting its conservative lending policy, BISA requires
securities from two to three times in excess of the loan amount depending on
the type of collateral. In line with BISA's intention to become more devel-
opment-oriented, the company would need to take a more flexible approach to
secruity requirements, compensating this by paying more attention to the
viability of subprojects.
Equity Investments and Promotion
3.03      During its first years of existence BISA did some promotional work,
setting up of a steel rolling mill (IBHASA) and a marble quarry (EMARCASA), in
both of which it took minority equity participations. Other projects studied
1/   The Government has agreed that IDA funds would be onlend at a rate of
not less than 11-1/4%.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
by BISA did not meet with much interest among private industrial partners.
BISA's two equity participations turned out to be poor investments (Annex 1,
para. 4.03). Therefore, BISA has decided to take a very cautious attitude
towards new equity investments. This is an understandable policy in the short-
term but if the business climate improves sufficiently, BISA should be encour-
aged to become more promotion-minded again.
Other Operations
3.04      BISA's "other" operations are rather insignificant.  Guarantees are
given infrequently. However, at the end of 1972 guarantees outstanding
amounted to $b8 million, which was mainly the result of a sizeable short-term
operation of $b6.5 million in favour of one client, Compania Minera del Sur S.A.,
one of the largest and best managed mining companies in Bolivia. At the end
of 1972, BISA had also letters of credit outstanding amounting to $b6.73 million
with foreign banks, of which amount almost one-half corresponded to one opera-
tion for a plastic manufacturing company, Plasmar S.A., in which IFC has an
equity investment. BISA also administers as a trustee for AID a fund of soft-
term loans to industrial enterprises in need of rehabilitation.
D.   Financial Results
Quality of Portfolio
4.01      At the end of 1972, BISA had a loan portfolio of $b88.15 million of
which 47.7% corresponded to foreign exchange loans, 39.0% to local currency
loans with a dollar clause, and 13.3% to local currency loans without a dollar
clause. The total balance outstanding affected by principal and interest over-
due for more than one year was $bl3.62 million, 1/ or 15.4% of the total loan
portfolio, as can be seen in the following table:
Amount in $b     % of
No. of Loans       million        Total
Loans not due                           227             74.53        84.6
Total balance outstanding of
loans in arrears for more than
one year (including interest)        42             13.62         15.4
269            88.15        100.0
Of the total balance of loans in arrears, $b10.O million represent loans out-
standing to four clients.  BISA has taken legal action to recover its loans
in most of the problem cases and does not expect any significant losses; the
company estimates that about 85% of the loans in arrears can be recovered with
1/   The total balance outstanding of loans in arrears for more than three
months is only insignificantly higher.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
guarantees. Overall, the loan portfolio is sound, and provisions, reserves and
2retained earnings would be adequate to cover possible losses on loans which in
BISA's opinion would not exceed $b2.0 million (Annex 1, para. 4.06).
4.02      BISA is now reorganizing the accounting of its loan portfolio to
show a more detailed aging of the principal outstanding of loans in arrears
(e.g. in arrears for more than three months) and to determine the amounts of
principal in arrears as opposed to the total balance outstanding to these
clients. The company would by the end of 1973 be able to give this inforna-
tion.
4.03      The market value of BISA's two equity investments, which were
acquired at a cost of $b2.43 million, is estimated at zero (Table 6). The
failure of these two investments was mainly due to bad business conditions
in 1970-71 and inadequate management. BISA's total exposure in these two
companies is $b7.30 million, including loans of $b4.87 million, but the com-
pany should be able to recover at least 80% of the loans because of existing
guarantees (Annex 1, para. 4.01). Here again, provisions, reserves and re-
tained earnings would be sufficient to cover the expected loss of $b2.43
million on the equity portfolio (Annex 1, para. 4.06). 1/
Financial Structure
4.04      Balance sheets of BISA are given in Table 7.  BISA's total assets
increased sharply (65%) in 1972, mainly due to the upward adjustment of
foreign currency loans following the devaluation. (Without the devaluation,
the growth would have been 15%). BTSA's total debt/equity ratio, which
in 1968-71 never exceeded 4.7:1 increased to a high 6.6:1 at the end of 1972
(Table 11). BISA's short-term liquidity situation is excellent; short-term
assets and the normal cash flow cover short-term liabilities comfortably.
Profitability
4.05      BISA's earnings performance which had been very good in 1968-69 (net
earnings on equity of 17.0% and 16.5%) started to deteriorate in 1970 (14.0%),
bottomed out in 1971 (4.0%) and recovered somewhat in 1972 (8.3%). The drop
in earnings was partly due to unfavorable business conditions in 1970-71 which
led to a lower volume of lending operations and a larger portion of loans in
arrears. Furthermore, BISA has over the last few years experienced a sub-
stantial reduction in its gross spread, which went down from 8.2% in 1968
to 5.8% in 1972. This mainly resulted from a gradual reduction of BISA's
interest income, a trend which was accentuated in 1972 when the Government
reduced the official interest ceiling on development loans from 12% to 10%.
Administrative expenses have increased at a much slower rate than assets
1/   A provision of $bO.88 million has been made against the cost of the
equity portfolio amounting to $b2.43 million; the balance of $b1.55
million is covered by reserves and retained earnings.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
over the last few years, resulting in a decrease of administrative expenses
as a proportion of total average assets from 3.8% in 1968 to 2.8% in 1972.
This ratio, which is still on the high side, could be explained by BISA's
relatively low volume of operations and small size of average subloan
(US$37,700 equivalent).
Reserves and Provisions
4.06      BISA's provisions, reserves and retained earnings amounted to $b4.7
million at the end of 1972, representing 5.1% of total loan and equity port-
folio. 1/ Of this amount, $bl.2 million is included in a contingency reserve
for possible portfolio losses which has been separated from equity. BISA is
considering to increase this reserve by about $b4.5 million in 1973, using a
portion of its exchange gain for this purpose. 2/ This would strengthen
BISA's reserves considerably and remove any doubt as to their adequacy. Over-
all, the aggregate of BISA's provisions, reserves and retained earnings appear
adequate given the present quality of its portfolio, but as the company grows
it should increase its provisions. In this respect, starting with the 1973
financial statements, the company intends to charge annually against the
period's income an amount expected to be the loss on its portfolio instead
of its past practice of very slowly building up provisions by charging only
20% annually of irrecuperable loans, 3/ as permitted by Bolivian tax legisla-
tion.
Dividend Policy
4.07      BISA paid annual dividends of about 11.5% in 1968-70, representing
approximately 60% distribution of earnings (Table 11). As a result of deter-
iorating earnings, the dividend was sharply reduced to 2.9% in 1971. Out of
1972 earnings, BISA declared a 9% dividend, representing a 74.2% distribution
of earnings. However, in contrast to previous years, the 1972 dividend was
completely capitalized indicating the shareholders' intention to build up the
1/   This amount would cover the estimated possible losses of $b2.0 million
on the loan portfolio (Annex 1, para. 4.01) and of $b2.43 million on
the equity portfolio (Annex 1, para. 4.03). However, since only $bl.56
million had been charged against BISA's income as a provision at the
end of 1972, the company's equity is overstated on that same date by
$b2.87 million ($b4.43 million less $b1.56 million).
2/   As a result of the 1972 devaluation of the Bolivian peso, BISA made a
foreign exchange gain of $b11.3 million which was mainly due to the fact
that many of BISA's subloans in foreign exchange are financed with funds
borrowed in local currency.
3/   Loans would normally be considered as irrecuperable by Bolivian legis-
lation when the company has been declared in bankruptcy.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
company into a strong and expanded development finance company.   Under a loan
agreement dated February 20, 1973 with IDB for industrial development BISA has
agreed to limit the payment of future dividends in cash to 50% of the dividends
declared.
4.08      A few of BISA's shares have changed hands in private transactions.
The book value of its shares has remained relatively stable over the last
few years, amounting to 126.0% at the end of 1972.
Foreign Exchange Risk
4.09      All operations reviewed by the appraisal mission indicate that
BISA is not exposed to any foreign exchange risk in its operations as long as
the Bolivian peso is not revalued primarily in relation to the dollar, which
is highly improbable.
E.   Prospects
Operations
5.01      BISA expects its total approvals to grow at an annual rate of 28%
over the next five years (Table 9). Foreign currency approvals under credit
lines financed by AID, IDA, IDB, and KfW would represent the bulk of operations,
equivalent to 83% of total approvals in 1977. Approvals of local currency
loans are projected to grow at a slower annual rate (10.2%), since BISA is now
repaying the AID funds used for local currency loans. As has been the case
over the last few years, equity investments would continue to play an in-
significant role in BISA's operations.
5.02      BISA's projections are reasonable.  Starting in 1975 and through
1977, about half of the operations in terms of value would be in mining and
the other half principally in the industrial sector. However, in terms of
number of loans, industrial lending would continue to be the most important
activity, since the size of an average subloan for mining would be much larger
than one for industry. BISA is not expected to have any difficulties in
approving loans for industry at the projected annual growth rate of 9.5%, which
is partly based on a pipeline of projects, since demand for funds continues to
be strong in the industrial sector. The demand for funds from private medium-
size mining companies, which is based on rather firmly defined subprojects
(para 3.16), is expected to exceed BISA's present capacity to serve the
sector, both in terms of financial and appraisal capacity.
Sources of Funds
5.03      The projected increases in resources assume substantial support from
IDA, minor fresh funds from other long-term lenders and relatively important
increases in BISA's share capital (Annex I, para. 5.05). On the basis of the
projected loan commitments for mining, BISA's foreign exchange needs for lend-
ing to this sector would in 1974-1977 amount to $b167 million (US$8.4 million).
The proposed IDA credit of US$5 million would cover the projected commitments
up to mid-1976.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
5.04      Existing foreign exchange resources for lending to non-mining activi-
ties (mainly industry) are adequate to allow commitments well into 1976. The
uncommitted portion of foreign exchange borrowings amounted to the sizeable
figure of $b57.6 million at the end of 1972, which compared to a total out-
standing long-term debt of $b63.3 million of that same date. Since the long-
term borrowings from AID, IDB, and KfW are repayable over periods ranging
from twelve to forty years and subloans with these funds are made at terms
averaging five years, BISA has an important source of funds in the revolving
use of these credit lines.
Financial Structure and Results
5.05      On the basis of the projected volume of business, BISA's total as-
sets would grow at an annual rate of 28.7%, from $b101.3 million in 1972 to
$b357.4 million in 1977. To support the proposed lending volume and maintain
an adequate financial structure, BISA proposes to raise its paid-in-capital
as follows:
(in $b million)
Actual               Projected
Share capital              1972    1973   1974   1975    1976    1977
At the beginning of
the year                7.6      7.7   12.9   18.3    28.7    36.4
Additions:                               /1
New Capital             0.1      4.5 -  5.0   10.0       7.0    10.0
Capitalized dividends   -        0.7    0.4    0.4       0.7     1.0
7.7     12.9   18.3   28.7    36.4    47.4
/1   Derived from part of the foreign exchange gain (Annex 1, para. 4.06).
The capital increase of $b5 million in 1974 and another $b5 million in 1975
would come from the Association of Medium Miners, the members of which would
be among the beneficiaries of the proposed credit program. The additional
amount of new capital in 1975-77 would come from several new and existing
shareholders (foreign and national), who have expressed interest in making
equity participations. ADELA has indicated its intention to maintain its
present equity participation in BISA of 25.7%. The following foreign share-
holders have expressed interest in equity participations: DEG, Germany
($b6.0 million), Continental Bank of Chicago ($b6.0 million), Irving Trust,
New York ($b3.0 million) and Manufactures Hanover Trust ($b3.0 million).
BISA also expects to raise share capital from existing and new Bolivian
shareholders, in particular from the agro-industrial sector in Santa Cruz.
Although several of the new potential shareholders are foreign, foreign
ownership in BISA is not expected to exceed its present participation of
about 40%. Finally, the projections assume, in accordance with IDB loan
agreement, that 50% of dividends declared would be capitalized (Annex 1,
para. 4.07).



ANNEX 1
Page 11
5.06      The projected capital resources is considered realistic.  Since the
proposed increase of $b1O million in 1974 and 1975 from the Association of
Medium Miners is decisive for the capital mobilization program, BISA should,
before effectiveness of the proposed IDA project, obtain a firm commitment to
the effect that $b5 million would be paid during 1974 and an additional _b5
million during 1975.
5.07      With the projected capital increase, the financial structure, as
measured by the debt/equity ratios, would develop as follows:
Actual                 Projected
December 31                      1972        1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
Total debt/equity ratio /1         6.6        5.4    5.3    4.8    5.3    5.3
Term debt/equity ratio /1          5.3        5.0    4.9    4.4    4.9    4.9
/1   An AID loan of $b3.6 million (US$180,000) which is subordinated to other
debt and ranks pari-passu with the share capital, is considered as quasi
equity and has consequently been included in the equity base; cash divi-
dends have been excluded from equity.
5.08      BISA is currently not subject to any contractural debt limitation
apart from a rather liberal government-imposed total debt/equity ratio of
10:1. This is too high. In judging the appropriateness of BISA's financial
leverage, IDA's interest as a creditor would have to be reconciled with the
needs of BISA to be a reasonably profitable operation, which is a necessary
prerequisite for the proposed program of capital mobilization (Annex 1, para.
5.05). Considering that BISA has a proven record of project lending, a sound
loan portfolio, a good liquidity and adequate appraisal capability, a total
debt/equity limit of 6:1 would be appropriate. Therefore, BISA should agree
not to exceed a total debt/equity ratio of 6:1.
5.09      BISA's rate of return on average equity is expected to go up only
slightly, from 8.3% in 1972 to 9.6% in 1977 (Table 11). The main reason for
this modest improvement in profitability, despite a substantial expansion of
operations, is the increasing costs of borrowings. Since the interest-free
or low-interest funds from AID and IDB are gradually becoming a smaller propor-
tion of BISA's total borrowings, its average cost of borrowings would increase
from 3.8% in 1972 to 5.2% in 1977.  Provis-ons for possible losses -- which
at the end of 1972 amounted to $b1.5 million or 1.7% oL BISA's total portfolio
-- would by the end of 1972 reach $b10.8 million or 3.2% of the total portfolio.
Administrative expenses are expected to decrease from 2.8% of average total
assets in 1972 to 1.7% in 1977 which would be a reasonable level.



ANNEX I
Page 12
5.O      Dividends are projected to remain modest (Table 11).  After dropping
from 9% of par in 1972 to 4.4% in 1974, as a result of the expected capital
increases, dividends would gradually increase to reach 6.1% of par at the
end of 1977. A dividend pay-out ratio of 60% has been projected but since
BISA, in accordance with a covenant agreed upon with IDB, cannot declare more
than 50% of its dividends in cash, the real dividend pay-out would not exceed
30%. Reserves and retained earnings (excluding provisions) would increase
from $b3.2 million or 3.4% of the total portfolio in 1972 to $b14.3 million
or 4.3% of the total portfolio in 1977.



ANNEX I
Table _
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANJCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
List of Major Shareholders as,of December 31, 1972
Number o.
Shares      %  of
$blO par value   Total
I     Class "Al l  Private Bolivian Banks
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.  Banco Hipotecario Nacional                                  7,220          9.h1
2.  Banco Boliviano-Americano                                   4,870          6.35
3. Banco Nacional de Bolivia                                    4,752          6.19
4.  3anco sMer3antil                                            4,223          5.51
5.  Banco de Credito Oruro                                        794          1.04
6.  Banco Ir.dustrial y Ganadero del Beni S.A.                    300          0.39
Sub-total               22,159         28.89
II    Class "B" - Cther ?rivate Bolivian Sharenolders
1.  Marrufacturera de Algodon Said S.A.                         7,265          9.47
2.  Indastrias Bolivianas Unidas S.A. "'Iousa"'                 1,367          1.78
3.  Hansa Ltda.                                                 1,250          1.63
4.  Sociedad Nacional Textil  Sonatex S.A.                        924          1.21
5.  Manufactureras Textiles Forno S.A.                            883          1.15
6.  Cerveceria Boliviana Nacional S.A.                            775          1.01
7.  Gasser y C;a. Ind. "La B6lgica" S.A.                          718          0.94
8.  Castellanos Ortiz Hugo                                        700          0.91
9.  Fabrica de Tejidos Jacquard S.A. "Fateja"                      609         0.79
10.  Volcan S.A.                                                    507         0.66
11.  Sears Archibald F.J.                                          449          0.59
12.  Manufacturera Boliviana S.A. "Manaco"                         401          0.52
121 Private Bolivian Shareholders with Fewer than
300 Shares each                                             8,182         10.67
Sub-total               24,030         31.33
III   Class "IC" - Foreign Snareholders
1.  ADELA Investment Company                                   19,726         25.72
2.  Banco Popular del Peru                                      7,700         10.04
3.  Banco de la Nacicn Argentina                                2,183          2.85
4.  Bank of America                                                895         1.17
Sub-total               30,504         39.78
GR?4D TOTAL             76,693        100.00
LCPDF
aLy 23, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 2
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Board Members as of December 31, 1972
Principals                                     Description
Enrique Urioste Calvo                       General Manager, Nanufacturas de Algod6n
(Chairman)                                 "SAIDtT S.A.; represents shareholders of
Class "B"
Eduardo Saenz Garcia                        President of Board of Directors, Banco
(Vice-Chainnan)                            Mercantil; represents shareholders of
Class "A"l
Javier Arce  lillalba                       Director, Banco Boliviano Americano; General
Manager, Fabrica Nacional de F6sforos
S.A.M.; represents shareholders of Class
Edward A. Home                              Executive President, Banco Hipotecario
Nacional; represents shareholders of Class
"A"I
Hans Elsner Schweitzer                      Managing Director, Fabrica de Tejidos
Jacquard S.A. "FATEJA"; represents share-
holders of Class "B"
Rene Ballivian Calder6n                     EXecutive President, Empresa de M6rmol y
Cal S.A. "EMARCASA"; represents share-
holders of Class "B"
Miguel Fabri Cohn                           General Manager, Banco Porular del Pert-i;
represents shareholders of Class "C"
Tor L. Lindbaek                             Manager, ADELA Investment Company 3.S.;
represents shareholders of Class "C"
Alternates                                    Description
Hugo Castellanos Ortiz                      General Manager, Camara Nacional de Indus-
trias; represents shareholders of Class
Hugo Gambarte Pantoja                       General Manager, Cerveceria Boliviana
Nacional S.A.; represents shareholders
of Class "B"
Carlos Calvo Galindo                        Manager, First National City Bank (La Paz)
(until 11/30/72); Executive President,
Exportaciones Bolivianas "EXPOBOL" S.A.;
represents shareholders of Class "C"
LCPDF
May 23, 1973



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Organization Chart
Shareholders
Assembly
Board of |
Directors
Managing
Director
(Jorge Lo ez)
Manager o  Operations
(Enrique Garcia)
Deputy Manager                                                         D
of  Operations                                                       of Administration
Iust     iMining                  lProject I   Super-  IInter- I                                                      Account-.
Loans       Loans                               vision                        lnatnal    in
1g1



BOLIVIA - a MINING CR3IT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSI9TIAL S. A.
Long-term Borrowings as of December 31, 1972
Revolving use
Lender                  Date           Amount         Cost of Borrowing   Repayment        Guarantor              pcssible?
USAID/Bolivia         2/11/63       $b 3.6 million   freE (o.75% p.a.    15 annual         Bolivian
51i-24-920-388                                         commission)          installments    Govt.                   Yes
from 2/10/79
USAID/Bolivia         8/2 /63      US$ 2.14 million   5.75% p.a.            25 half-yearly Bolivian
AID/WI4E 511-L-016                                    (3% until 1968)       inst. from       Govt.                  Yes
4/29/72
USAID/Bolivia         4/14/66       $b 6 million      4.5% p.a.             20 half-yearly Bolivian
5ll-Li-92O-h96                                                              inst. from       Govt.                  Yes
1/1972
USAID/Bolivia
511-LCI-lOC5A        12/15/66       $b3,153,716       4.5% p.a.             12 half-yearly Bolivian
inFt. from       Govt.                  Yes
3/28/71
USAID/Bolivia
5ll-LCL-1019          3/6/68        $b 4.8 million   6% p.a.                20 half-yearly Bolivian
inst. from       Govt.                  Yes
3/1973
Interamerican Deve-
lopment Bank         7/29/66      US$ 1 million      4% p.a.               20 half-yearly Central
100-'F-BC                                                                  inst. from        Bank                  Yes
1/29/72
Kredi tanstal t fur
Wiederraufbau        9/28/70       DI! 5 million     5.5  p.a.             44 half-yeaily Bolivian
A.I.L.C. 202-72                                                             inst. froml     Govt.                   Yes
6/30/79
GentrAl Bank ne-        -           Amounts of         5% p.a.              Terms of the
Ui,F-curt, Lines                   sub-loans are                           sub-loans        -                      No
(tlring U'ATD                      ref inanced
funds)
Interamnericen Deve-  2/20/73      US$1.5 millicn    5% p.-                 60 half-yearly Brlivian
h-pmcn. bEnk                                                               inst. frcm       G-vt.                 Yes
July 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 5
BOLIVIL - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Analysis of Loans Approved
(in $b million)
1970                    1971                    1972            Total since Inception
No.   Amount   %        No.   Amount   ,        No.    ,mount    4       No.    Amount    9
I.   By Size
Up to         200,000        33       2.98    35.2   31       2.86    12.8   27        2.33     6.4   478      43.19   23.3
200,001 -   Soo,ooo         3      0.75      8.8   13       4.45    19.8   10       3.08      8.5    88      28.03   15.1
500,001 - 1,000,000         3       2.33    27.5    4       2.94    13.1    5       3.92    10.8    43       31.37   16.9
1,000,001 and above           2       2.41    28.5    7      12.20    54.3   12      27.03    74.3    47       82.88   44.7
Total         41       8.47   100.0   55      2100.0100.0   54         36.36   100.o   656    185.47  100.0
IT. By ltonomic Activity
Food products                 7       1.61    18.9   15       9.60    42.8   11        5.73    15.8   167      46.19   25.0
Beverages                     2       0.12     1.4    2       o.67      3.0    1      0.05      0.1    26       3.62    1.9
Textiles                      4       1.84    21.7    3       2.22      9.9    2       2.27     6.2    58      31.44   17.0
Footwear and Garment          3       0.29     3.4    5       0.44      2.0    4       1.37     3.8    49       5.63    3.0
Wood products                 2       0.32     3.8    4         o.60    2.7    2       0.20     o.6    49       8.83   i6.8
Furniture                     1       0.05     o.6    2       0.53      2.3    1       0.12     0.3    18       1.51    0.8
Paper and Printing             2      0.07     0.9    1       0.12      o.5    -        -         -     24      6.26    3.4
Leather goods                 5       0.49     5.7    3       0.25      1.1    1       0.33     0.9    33       2.97    1.6
Ribber goods                  -        -        -      -       -         -     -        -        -       3      0.4    0.2
Chemical products             4       1.78    21.0    3       1.90      8.5    7       4.25    11.7    37      14.15    7.6
Construction materials        1       0.07     0.8    2       0.11      0.5    2       o.62     1.7    32       5.33    2.9
Buildings                     3       0.50     6.0    -        -         -     2       1.98     5.4    17      13.53    7.3
Metal products                 -       -         -     1      0.08      0.3    5       1.26     3.5    54      10.49    5.6
Plastic goods                 -        -         -     -       -         -     3       7.43    20.4      3      7.63    4.0
Turism and Hotels             -        -         -     -       -         -     3       2.25     6.2      3      2.26    1.2
Others                        7       1.33    15.8   14       5.93    26.4   10        8.50    23.4    83      25.39   13.7
Total          IJ1     8.47   100.0   55       22.45   1oo.0           3O.36   1oo0.   656    185.47  100.0
III. -By Duration
1 to 2 years                 18       3.80    44.8   15       5.o6    22.5  17         6.71    18.5   251      29.61   16.0
2 to 5 years                 22       4.01    47.3   37      12.86    57.3   35       22.84    62.8   374    121.94   65.7
More than 5 years              1      o.66     7.9    3       4.53    20.2    2        6.81    18.7    31      33.92   18.3
Total          61      8.47   100.0   55       22.45   100.0   54      36.36   1OO.0   656    185.47  100.0
IV. By Location
La Paz                       31       6.46    76.3   40      12.05    53.6   37       25.13    69.1   421    121.96   65.8
Santa Cruz                    2       0.15     1.8    3       3.22    1)4.3    6       6.40    17.6    77      30.45   15.4
Cochabamba                     5      1.62    19.1    9       6.30    28.1    7        4.67    12.8    93      25.11   13.5
Oruro                          -       -         -     -        -        -     1       0.01     0.1    13        2.30    1.2
Beni                          1       0.08     0.9    -        -         -     -        -         -     15      1.84    1.0
Chuquisaca                    1       0.04     0.5    1       0.o6      0.3    2       0.10     0.3    22       2.07    1.2
Tarija - lotosi               1       0.12     1.4    2       0.82      3.7    1       o.05     0.1    15       1.74    0.9
Total          hi      8.47   1o0.0   55       22.65   100.o   54      36.36   100.0   656    185.47  100.0
V.   By Sad Use
Fixed capital                         4.24    50.0           13.48    60.0            25.80    71.0           112.69   60.8
Working capital              4_ .23    50.0                   8.97    40.0   _        10.56    29.0             72.78   39.2
Total         41*      8.47   100.0   55*    22.615   100.0   5*    36.36   0oo.O   656*   185.67  100.0
VI.  By Type of Projects
New enterprises                3      0.36     4.3    5       4.93    21.9.    7       5.42    14.9   46       39.38   21.2
Existing enterprises         38       8.11    95.7   50      17.52    78.1  47        30.94    85.1   610    146.09   78.8
Total         41       8.47   o0O.0   55      22.45   100.0   54       36.36   300.0   656    185.47  100.0
VII. By Source of Funds
Own funds                    20       1.64    19.4   19       4.90    21.6   22        7.36    20.2   261       34.15   18.4
AID                          15       5.83    68.7   28      11.96    53.3   19       11.42    31.4   335    111.72   60.3
IDB                           2       1.00    11.9    5       1.29      5.7    4       4.47    12.3    40      19.87   10.7
Central Bank of Bolivia        -       -         -     1      2.o8      9.3    5       5.65    15.6    13      10.04    5.6
KfW                           _        _         -     2      2.22      5.9    4       7.46    20.5      6      9.69    5.2
Total         41       E.67   100.0   55       22.45   1(0.0   54      36.36   100.0   656    185.47  100.0
(*)  Most loans finance both fixed assets and working capital needs.
LCPDF
.Aay 23, 1973



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PRnJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Status of Equity Investments, December 31, 1972
(in Bol$ million)
Dividends
Share-     Esti-   Received    Provision
Year  of                                          holding    mated        in      made  for    %                             Total
Investment       Company     Industry   Status   (at cost)   Value        1972       Losses   Owned   Loans   Guarantees   Exposure
1967      Industria Boli-   Steel    In liqui-   2.13         0         -         o.85       23.4    3.76         -           5.89
viana de Hierro   rolling  dation
y Acero S.A.      mill
(IBHASA)
1968      D lotadora de    Marble   Operating   0.30          0         -         0.03       27.3    1.11         -          1.41
Marmol y Cal      quarry   at a loss
S.A. (EMARCASA)
LCPDF
July 1973



BOLIVIA - M INING CREDIT PROJECT
RANCQ INDUSTR,IAL S.A.
Past and Proiected Balance Sheets as of December 31
(in Bol$ million)
Past                                                     Pro lce
1968      1969       1970       1971       1972            1973       1974       1975      1976       1977
ASSETS
Banks - local                                             2.75       1.81.      2.45      3.02       1.90              1.6       3.5        3.4        4.8        6.1
Banks - abroad                                            1.92       2.37      4.24       2.35       4,37              3.9       8.4        8.0       11.5       14.5
Total Banks                                        4.67       4.18       6.69       5.37       6.27             5.5       11.9       11.4       16.3      20.6
Miscellaneous receivables                                 2.58       2.94       2.98      2.68       3.11              3.7       4.8         6.3       8.2       10.3
Loans outstanding                                        44.24      50.84     48.47      49.09      88.83           108.9      135.9      184.8      251.6      327.2
Less provision                                           -          -         -        (0.26)    (0.68)             (0.8)     (1.3)      (2,6)      (5.1)      (8.2)
Investments                                               2.79       2,88      3.29       2.96       3.02              3.1       4.1        5.3        6.7        8.0
Less provision                                _ _                            (0.39)    (0.30)    (0.88)           __. 5        (2.1)     (2_.6      (2.6)      (6)
Total Portfolio                                   47.03      53,72      51.37      51.49      90.29           109.7      136.6      184.9      250.6     324.4
Fixed and other assets                                    1.45       1.40       1.71      1.70       1.64              2.6        2.5        2.4       2.3        2.2
Total Assets                                      55.73      62.24      62.75      61.24    101.31            121.5      155.8      205.0     277.3      357.4
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts payable and other current liabilities            1.87       2.01       1.47       0.87      1.39              4.1        3.2        2.2       2.2        2.2
Current portion of long-term debt                         1.84       2.61       3.20      3.94      10.11              8.9       12.6      13.9   25         .o
Total Current Liabilities                           3.71       4.62    47.67        4.81      11.50             13.0       15.8      16.1       22.0
USAID                                                    34.19      33.71      33.13      32.74     41.48
IDB                                                       4.60       9.43       9.96      8.60      13.35
KfW                                                        -          -          -          -         3.88            83.4      108.7      145.7     202.2      262.3
Central Bank                                              1.40       1.70       1.04      0.36       4.59
IDA                                                                                                             L -  -  -  -
Other                                                    ___--_22_
Total Long-term Debt                               40.19      44.84     44.13      41.70      63.30             83.4     108.7      145.7      202.2      262.3
Other liabilities                                         0.87       0.98       1.77       2.10      13.25             6.2        6.4        6.6        6.8        7.0
AID loan (quasi-equity)                                   3,60       3.60       3.60       3.60       3.60             3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6
Paid-in share capital                                     5.83       6,21       6.61       7.61       7.67            12.9       18.3       28.7       36.4      47.4
Legal reserve                                             0.40       0.54       0.67       0.71       0,81             0.9        1.1        1.3        1.7        2.2
Reserves for AID loan                                     0.12       0.26       0.39       0.44       0.54             0.6        0.8        1.0        1.4        1.9
Retained earnings                                         1.01       1.19       0.91       0.27       0.64             0.9        1.1        2.0        3.2        5.0
Equity                                                  7.36       8.20       8.58       9.03      9.66             15.3       21.3       33.0       42.7       56.5
Total Liabilities and Equity                       55.73      62,24      62.75      61.24    101.31            121.5      155.8      205.0      277.3     357.4
Contingent liabilities
L/C opened with foreign banlcs                          3.18       0.73       0.24       0.22       6.73             4.0        5.8        9.2       10.7       12.2
Bills endorsed                                          2.84       2.46       3.03       1.30       8.00             2.8        3.1        5.0        7.0       10.0
LCPDF
July 1973



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Past and Projected Profit and Loss Statements for Periods ending December 31
(in Bol$ million)
Past                                                     Projected
1968       1969      1970       1971       1972             1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
INCOME
Interest on loans                              4.68       6.17      5.73        5.15      6.45              8.9       11.6       15.3       20.8       27.5
Commissions                                    0.83       0.67      0.47       0.16       0.41              0.7        1.1        1.5        1.8        2.1
Other                                          0.11       0.05      0.13       0.55       0.31              0.4        0.4        0.5        0.7        0.9
Total Income                             5.62       6.89       6.33       5.86       7.17             10.0       13.1       17.3       23.3       30.5
EXPENSES
Charges on borrowings                          1.56       2.70      2.24        2.01      2.41              3.5        4.5        6.2        9.3       13.4
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                                     1.34       1.36       1.34       1.55       1.55              2.0        2.8        3.1        3.3        3.5
Administrative expenses                        0.53       0.52       0.50       0.66       0.74             0.9        1.5        1.7        1.8        1.9
Contributions                                  0.10       0.12      0.12        0.12      0.15              0.2        0.2        0.3        0.4        0.4
Depreciation                                   0.09       0.09       0.11       0.10       0.10             0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Provision for portfolio losses                  -          -                    0.56       0.60             0.7        1.1        1.8        2.5        3.1
Other                                          0.35       0.21       0.28      0.33        0.42             0.8        0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0
Total Expenses                           3.97       5.00       4.59       5.33       5.97              8.2       11.1       14.2       18.4       23.4
Net income before taxes                        1.65       1.89       1.74       0.53       1.20             1.8        2.0        3.1        4.9        7.1
Provision for taxes                            0.41       0.47      0.44       0.14       0.32              0.5        0.5        0.8        1.2        1.8
Contribution to employee fund                 0.13       0.14       0.13       0.04       0.10              0.1        0.2        0.2        0.4        0.5
Net Income after Taxes                   1.11       1.28       1.17       0.35       0.78              1.2        1.3        2.1        3.3        4.8
APPROPRIATIONS
Dividends                                      0.67       0.72      0.77       0.22        0.69            0.7        0.8        1.3        2.0        2.9
Legal reserve                                  0.12       0.14       0.13       0.04       0.10            0.1        0.2        0.2         0.4       0.5
Reserve for AID loan                           0.12       0.14       0.13       0.05      0.10             0.1        0.2        0.2        0.4        0.5
Unappropriated surplus                         0.20       0.28       0.14      0.04       0.04             0.3        0.1        0.4        0.5        0.9
1.11       1.28      1.17       0.35       0.93 l/          1.2        1.3        2.1        3.3        4.8
1/  Adjustment made after closing of books
LCPDF
July 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 9
BOLIVIA - A MININM CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Projections of Operations
(in Bol$ million)
1972      1973     1974      1975     1976     1977
(Actual)
Approvals
Local currency loan s         12.50      13.8      15.2     16.7     18.4      20.3
Foreign currency loans        23.92      26.1      42.8     75.5      88.5    102.0
Equity investments              -         0.1       1.0      1.2      1.3       1.3
Total         36.42       40.0     59.0     93.4    108.2    123.6
Commitments
Local currency loansv         14.76      12.5      15.0     16.4     18.0      19.9
Foreign currency loans        24;18      25.3      40.2     69.1     85.9      99.3
Equity investments              -         0.1       1.0      1.2      1.3       1.3
Total         38.94       37.9     56.2     86.7    105,2    120.5
Disbursements
Local currency loans?/        13.81       9.0      14.6     17.0     18.6      20.4
Foreign currency loansy       11.00      29.3      34.2     57.6     79.1      94.0
Equity investments              -         0.1      1.0       1.2      1.3       1.3
Total         24.81       38.4     49.8     75.8      99.0    115.7
j   Of which IDA                  -           -       7.2     28.2      47.4     59.0
g/  Some of these loans carry a dollar maintenance of value clause.
LCPDF
July 1973



ANNEX I
Table 10
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Pro3ected Sources and Application of Funds for Periods ending December 31
(in Bol$ million)
_1973           1974            1975            1976             1Z77
SOURCES
let income                                             1.8             2.0              3.1             4.9             7.1
Depreciation                                           0.1             0.1             0.1              0.1             0.1
Provisions for portfolio losses                        0.7             1.1             1.8              2.5             3.1
Cash generation                            2.6             3.2             5.0              7.5            10.3
Current liabilities                                    1.5             2.8             0.3              %.9             6.o
Increase other liabilities                             4.2             0.2             0.2              0.2             0.2
Draw-down of -long-term borrowings                    30.9            35.6             5.S            71ih4            83.2
Paid-in share capital                                  5.2             5.4             5.4              7.7            11.0
Loan repayment                                        18.2            21.8            25.7             29.9            34.0
TOTAL                                     62.6             69.4            92.1           t.6             144-7
APPLICATIONS
Loan disbursements                                    38.3            48.8            74.6             96.7           109.6
Disbursements for existing investments                 0.1             1.0             1.2              1.3             1.3
Taxes and contributions to employe's fund              0.6             0.7             1.0              1.6             2.3
Dividends paid                                         0.7             0.7             0.8             1.3              2.0
Increase, miscellaneous raceivables                    0.6             1.1             1.5              1.9             2.1
Increase in fixed assets                               1.1               _-                               - 
Decrease deferred ineowg                              11.2               ,                                _ 
Repayment of borro                                                     03             13.5             17.9           :23.
63.4            62.6            92.6           180.7           lho.4
Cash at beginning of period                            6.3             5.5            11.9            11.4             16.3
Change in cash during period                          (0.8)            6.4            (0.5)            4.9              4.3
Cash at end of period                                  5.5            11.9            11.4            16.3             20.6
LCPDF
July 1973



ANNX 1
Table 11
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJEZT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Past and Projected Financial Ratios
Past                                  ProJected
=9    )9b9  1970   1971   1972          1973   1974    1975  1976  1977
Total income as % of average
total assets                    11.3  11.7  10.1    9.5    8.8           9.0    9.4    9.6   9.7    9.6
Financial expenses as % of
average total assets             3.1    4.6   3.6   3.2    3.0           3.1    3.2    3.4   3.8    4.2
Gross spread as % of average
total assets                     8.2    T.1   6.5    6.3    5.8          5.9   6.2    6.2   5.9   5.4
Administrative expenses as %
of average total assets          3.8   3.2    2.9    3.6    2.8          2.6   3.1    2.6    2.1   1.7
Interest income as % of average
loan portfolio                  13.7  114.4  12.5  10.9  lo.             9.1    9.6    9.7   9.7    9.7
Financial expen-es as % of
average total borrowings         3.9 . 5.6    4.4   4.0   3.8            4.0   4.1    4.4   4.8   5.2
Net income after taxes as
% of average
-   share capital                20.2   21.3  18.3    4.9  10.2          11.6   8.3    8.o  10.1  11.4
equity,                     17.0  16.5  14.o    4.0   8.3            9.6    7.1    7.0   8.7    9.6
Total debt/equity                 4.7   4.4   4.4   3.8    6.6            5.4   5.3    4.8   5.3    5.3
Tenr debt/equity                  4.1   4.1   4.1   3.7    5.3            5.o    4.9   14.4   4.9    4.9
Dividend as % of year-end
capital                         11.4  11.6  11.7    2.9    9.0            5.4    4.4    4.5   5.4   6.i
Dividend as % of net profit
(pay-out)                       60.4  56.3  65.8  62.9  74.2            60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0
Cash dividend (in Bol$ million)    0.67   0.30   0.77   0.22   -          0.35   o.4    o.65   1.0    1.45
Cash dividend as % of dividend
declared                       100    42   100    100        0           50     50    50      50     50
Book value as % of par value    126.2  132.1  129.8  118.7  126.0        118.6  116.4 114.9  117.3  119.1
Average annual return to share-
holders as ,                    11.5    4.8  11.6   2.9    -              2.7    2.2   2.3    2.7    3.1
1/  Excepticnally high resulting from the devaluation of the Bolivian peso in October 1972.
LCPDF
July 1973






An1~EX1
Table 12
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Summary of 3ISA's Policies
_.        In order to minimize risks in its financing, BISA shall adhere
to the following policies:
(a) BISA shall not commit to any single enterprise the equi-
valent of more than 35% of its own equity in any form,
including loans, equity investments and guarantees. For
the purposes of this calculation, the outstanding amount
of AID loan No. 511-24-920-388 (loan amount: $b3.6
million), which is considered quasi-equity, would be in-
cluded in the equity.
(b) BISA shall normally not assume managerial responsibilities
in enterprises it assists and shall limit its share
participations to 25% of the voting shares of any given
enterprise.
(c) The aggregate of BISA's equity investments shall not
exceed the sum of its own equity.
2.        BISA shall follow a prudent dividend policy that will permit
it to build up suitable reserves while providing an adequate return to
the shareholders.
3.        BISA shall take such steps as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in any rate of ex-
change between the currencies used in its operations.
LCPDF
December 14, 1973






AN-NEX 2
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
SERVICIO GEOLOGICO DE BOLIVIA (GEOBOL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Legal Status
B.   Objectives and Functions
C.   Organization and Staffing
D.   Operations
E.   Budget
Table 1   Technical Staff
Table 2   Source and Use of Funds
Statement Excluding the
Survey of Small Mines
Table 3   Source and Use of Funds
Statement Including the
Survey of Small Mines
Table 4   Organization Chart






ANNTEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
SERVICTLO GEOLOGICO DE BOLIVIA (GEOBOL)
A.   Legal Status
1.01      Stemming from the recommendations of the Ford, Bacon and Davis
report made in 1956, the International Cooperation Administration (fore-
runner of USAID) assisted in the establishment in 1959 of the Division of
Desarrollo de Yacimientos Minerales in the then Ministry of Mines and
Petroleum Resources. By Supreme Decree No. 05590, of September 1960, this
was changed to Departame.nto Nacional de Geologia (DENAGEO). Subsequently,
under Supreme Decree No. 07212 of June 11, 1965, the Department was estab-
lisned as a semi-autonomous body, renamed Servicio Geologico de Bolivia
(GEOBOL), with its Director reporting to the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum
Resources (now the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy).
1.02      Under the Supreme Decree GEOBOL is held responsible for geological
exploration, Drospecting and mapping of mineral resources in Bolivia. This
covers all minerals with the exception of petroleum which is the responsi-
bility of the State Petroleum Organization (YPFB) and radio-active minerals
which are the responsibility of the Bolivian Nuclear Energy Commission
COBOEN).
B.   Objectives and Functions
2.01      The objectives and functions of GEOBOL can be summarized in the
seven following points:
(a)  contribute to the geological investigation of Bolivia and
effect improvements in the knowledge, development and use of
the national geological reserves, including metallic and non-
metallic minerals plus hydrocarbons and water;
(b)  prospect and explore mineral resources;
(c)  inventorv mineral properties to determine their mineral
potential;
(d)  coordinate the geological investigations with other public
and nrivate entities, to avoid duplication of effort;
(e)  prcvide technical advice to private and public operations;
(f)  compile geological data, organize a national geological data
bank (library), prepare geological maps, metallogenic maps,
and maps indicating water resources, etc.
(g) prepare and publish works on the geology of Bolivia.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.02      To complement its functions GEOBOL maintains permanent contact
with national and foreign institutions and entities that work in the field
of geological investigation, mapping and exploration.
C.   Organization and Staffing
3.01      GEOBOL's organization consists of three functional levels:
decisions, advice, and operations.
3.02      Decision Level. GXOBOL is governed by an Administrative Council
(Consejo Administrativo) which defines the general policies and is ultimately
responsible for overall activities of GEOBOL. The council is made up as
follows:
President      Director of GEOBOL
Vice-President Representative of the Ministry of Mining and
Metallurgy
Members         Representative of COMIBOL
Representative of YPFB
Representative of Corpacion Boliviana de Fomento
(CBF)
Representative of Camara Nacional de Mineria
3.03      Because of their importance to the mineral sector, the absence of
representatives from the Medium Miners' Asociation, IIMM and BAMIN raises
some questions as to the effectiveness of the Council.
3.04      The Chief Executive Office of GEOBOL is the Director (since 1970,
Jose Guillermo Torres), who is also President of the Administrative Council.
3.05      Advisory Level. This is comprised of 3 groups:  Technical Council,
Economic Advisor and Legal Advisor. The Technical Council, made up of
several mining and geological engineers, establishes policies, technical
norms, work methods, work programs and schedules. The economic and legal
advisors provide professional assistance to the overall operation of GEOBOL,
as needed.
3.06      Operations Level.  At this level the organization is divided into
5 departments, each headed by a director. The major responsibilities of
these departments are as follows:
(i) Department for Technical Coordination is responsible for coordi-
ating the work within GEOBOL, determining present and future inves-
tigation required, evaluating, classifying, clarifying and dis-
tributing all technical and scientific information for general
use and for centralized documentation.
(ii) Department of Economic Geology is responsible for measuring and
studying the extent and composition of mineral reserves in the



ANNTEX 2
Page 3
country.  The denartment conducts exploration and is staffed by
engineers in geophysics, geochemistry, drilling, and mine
geology;
(iii) Department of Regional Geologv is responsible for collating
all geological data on a regional basis, and preparing
national and regional geological maps, and tectonic and strati-
graphic maps.
(iv) Department of Applied Geology is responsible for investigating
water resources (surface and underground); and investigating
the geological characteristics of civil works sites.
(v) Laboratory Department is responsible for analyzing, development
and interpretation on mineral and rock samples collected by field
crews, and sent in by other entities. Includes, microscopic,
chemical and instrumental analyses.
Service Administrative Department is responsible for ensuring efficient
operation of GEOBOL, coordinating department needs, administrating purchases,
warehousing, personnel and equipment allocation.
Special Programs
3.07      GEOBOL has recently been assigned the responsibility for conducting
2 special programs: (i) a program for utilization of underground water re-
sources in the altiplano, and investigation and prospecting of underground
water in the country (a U.N.D.P. program); and (ii) a program for coordinating
and evaluating the results of the Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS)
program, as the counterpart agency to NASA.
3.08      Two special departments have been set-up to administer these pro-
grams. The department responsible for the ERTS program coordinates the
program between all agencies involved, namely:  CONEPLAN, COMIBOL, and the
Ministries of Agriculture, of Transport and Communications, of Defense, of
Energy and Hydrocarbons, and of Mining and Metallurgy.
Administration of the Survey of Small Mines
3.09      The Survey of Small Mines would be administered by setting up a
new department, at the same level as those established for the other two
special programs. (For further details of the structure of the new depart-
ment, see Annex 5.) An additional division would be established in the
Department for Technical Coordination to coordinate the activities of the
new department, with those of the other departments within GEOBOL and with
those of other agencies cooperating with GEOBOI for the survey.
The Staff
3.10      GROBOI currentlv has more than 250 employees of which some 120 are
professionals. Table 1 indicates the reasonably diverse nature of the



ANNEX 2
Page 4
expertise required and available within GEOBOL. In general, the staff is
reasonably well qualified although young and with little experience. In
the past 2 years both the quantity and quality of their work has been satis-
factory, although there is considerable room for improvement. The Director
recognizes the benefits to be gained from foreign experts attached to the
organization (a limited number are now employed as part of the water program)
and plans to arrange for overseas training.
D.   Operations
4.01      Basic mapping of the country on a scale of 1:50,000 commenced in
1962, and to date slightly more than 25% of the country has been covered.
However, only 60-65 map sheets have been published covering about 15% of the
country. In the past when USAID was providing support to the forerunner of
GEOBOL, a significant proportion of the manpower was allocated to basic mapping.
This has, however, dropped off significantly and mapping activities reached
a very low level in 1969-70, increasing slightly in 1972. In addition, GEOBOL
has published more than 30 reports, bulletins and circulars on the geology of
Bolivia plus a geological map of Bolivia (scale 1:250,000) and has under pre-
paration a tectonic and mineralogic map.
4.02      Up to 1968 GEOBOL had been providing technical assistance to small
miners seeking BAfIN credit and executed more than 700 technical assistance
and property evaluation projects. Virtually no work of this nature is now
performed.
4.03      In recent years GEOBOL's activities have more heavily concentrated
on geophysical and geochemical prospection along with the compilation of
1:10,000 maps for mining exploration work, and detailed mapping on scales
of 1:2,000, 1:1,000 and 1:500. Also, it has increasinglv channelled its
efforts into doing exploration work on a contract basis for both the small
miners and COMIBOL. This is unfortunate since the fundamental role of GEOBOL
should be to accelerate the pace of basic geological mapping and regional
economic geology studies instead of conducting detailed exploration work for
ore deposits. This is basically a result of the budget restraints. Never-
theless, it is expected that with the start of the Survey of Small Mines,
a considerable part of GEOBOL's effort will be redirected more to "infra-
structure" geology so that full use can be made of the data collected to
update existing and prepare new maps and reports.
E. Budget
5.01      GEOBOL's operations are financed by 3 major sources:  Government
appropriations, foreign assistance, and revenue from contract exploration
work. GEOBOL's budget over the period 1965-68 averaged US$285,000 annually.
Since 1967, with the phasing out of AID assistance GEOBOL has become entirely
dependent on Government funds and its own revenues from technical assistance,



ANTEX 2
Page 5
contract exploration, assays, sale of maps and publications. In 1972 the
self-generated income of over $b 1 million was matched by the Government
contribution of $b 2.8 million.
5.02      A summary source and use of funds statement is presented as Table 2
for the years 1969 to 1975. This indicates a major increase in peso expendi-
tures for 1973 onwards but it represents only a small increase in dollar
terms, taking into account the November 1972 devaluation. Most of the
increased expenditure can be attributed to the construction of a new building
to house GEOBOL which is now under construction.  Other important increases
are noted in the cost of personnel services and overhead, implying both an
increase in staff and an increase in salaries. To meet these increased costs
GEOBOL has projected moderate increases in Government allocation and a major
increase (250Z) from contract work earnings. The latter appears optimistic
and GEOBOL may have to reduce the planned program of future activities.
5.03      Table 3 presents the source and use of funds statement for GEOBOL
including the Survey of Small Mines.






ANNEX 2
Table 1
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
TECHNICAL STAFF Y
Department
Specialty                       1     2      3     4      5     6     7    Total
Geologist Specializing in
Economic Geology             1                                     1       2
Geochemistry                        1                                      1
Geophysics                          2           1            1     1       5
Geomorphology                                                      2       2
Petrology                                                          1       1
Volcanics                                                          1       1
Mine Geology                 9                                             9
Paleontology                              3                  12/           4
Stratigraphy                              5                                5
Tectonics                                 2                                2
Field Geology                4      8                        7     6      25
Photo geology                       3                                      3
Hydrogeology                                    4            7Z/   2      13
Sedimentology                                         1                    1
Petrography                                            5                   5
Minerography                                           1                   1
Agronomics                                             2                   2
Mine and Metallurgical
Engineer                         3                  1      1     2       7
Chemists                                                  4     1_/           5
HydrometerologLst                                               1             1
Civil Engineer                                                         1      1
Forestry Engineer                                                     1       1
Not Specified                   5                                             5
Total                    6    23    21      5    14    19    17    105
1.  Department for. Technical Coordination
2.  Department of Economic Geology
3.  Department of Regional Geology
4.  Department of Applied Geology
5.  Laboratory Department
6.  Department for Investigation of Water Resources
7.  Department for ERTS Program
Does not include secretarial, clerical and semi-skilled or unskilled personnel.
This includes foreign experts provided under the auspices of the iN program.
LCPDF
July 1973



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
GEOBOL: SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS STATEMENT (1969-75)
(Current Wbrk Program)
Actual                                              ProJected
169      II  1970       1/   1971     1/   1972      1/   1973      17   1974      I/   1975       1/
$b IOO"S$OOO7$b '0 TUS$0007$b' OMUS$OOO7$bI '7US$         $b' If6S$n0O b 12 f$Ob o0-007b's$ooo )
Source of Funds
Government Appropriations  2s,648  (223)  2,569  (216)  2,583  (217)  2,767  (233)  3,044  (152)  4,070  (204)  5,078  (254)
Self -Generated Funds         612    5L)  1 967  (165) 1907  (160)  1,692  (142) 5,943  (297)  5 006  (250)  4,260  (213)
Total                          3 mI)  1t    (:31Y  E         (l5 ()77)      (99338  (67)
Use of Funds
Personnel Services          2,650  (223)  3,160  (265)  3,119  (262)  3,382  (285)  4,329  (216)  4*389  (219)  4,295  (215)
Overhead                      462  ( 39)  1,014  ( 85)    738  ( 62)    818  ( 69)  1,415  ( 71)  1,609  ( 80)  1,844
Materials and Supplies        120  ( 10)    291  ( 24)    372  ( 31)    349  ( 29)    833  ( 42)    905  ( 48)  1,338  ( 67)
Fixed Assets and Financing
Charges                     15  (1         40  ( 3)      86  (          75     6   2 410  (120)  2 128  (106)  1 861  ()
Total                      -7 ( 213)         5    3=3J                       ( 5 95)                         h)9>)3T   (457)
Allocation of Funds 2/
Economic Geology                                                                       3,087  (154)  3,150  (158)  3,342  (167)
Regional Geology                                                                       2,531  (217)  2,460  (123)  2,589  (129)
Applied Geology                n.a.            n,a.          n.a.            n.a.      1,201  ( 60)  1,050  ( 53)  1,234  ( 62)
Laboratory                                                                             1,806  ( 90)  1,825  ( 91)  1,852  ( 93)
ERTS Project                                                                             294  ( 15)    240  ( 12)    304  ( 15)
Survey of Small Mines                                                                     68  ( 13)    350  ( 17)       17  ( 1)
Total                                        .7    (44)  ,0O76  (13)    7                                                 (; 7)
1/ Using the current exchange rates:  i.e. 1US$ - 11.88 $b prior to November 1972, and  - 20.0 $b thereon.
7/ These projections include as a cost only those parts of the special program: ERTS; U.N. Water Survey and Survey of
Small Mines; that are financed directly by GEOBOL.
Source: GEOBOL.
LCPDF
July 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 3
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
GEOBOL: SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS STATEMENT INCLUDING SURVEY OF SMALL MINES
1973           1974          1975
$bOOO (GSi&OOO) $bOOO (us$000) $bOOO (USsoo0)
Use of Funds
For current work program      8,919  (446)  8,726  (436)  9,321   (466)
For Survey of Snall Mines       278   (14) 19,360  (968)  2,782   (139)
Total                  9,197  (460) 28,086 (1404) 12,103   (605)
Source of Funds
Government Appropriations
- For Current Work Program    3,044  (152)  4,070  (204)  5,078   (254)
- For Survey                    210   (10)  3,429  (171)   1,344    (67)
Sub-total              3,254  (162)   7,499  (375)  6,422   (321)
GEOBOL                        5,943  (297)  5,O06  (250)  41,260  (213)
IDA Credit                            -   15,580  (779)  1,420    (71)
TOTAL                  9,197  (460) 28,086 (12404) 12,103   (605)
Source: GEOBOL., Annex 6, Mission Estimates.
LCPDF
July 1973



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
GEOBOL: ORGANIZATION CHART
Adninistrative Coancil
Level of
Decision
Director
_____                           L~~~~~~~~~~~e g al Advi~so
Level of                       Technical
Advice                        Council
{ 1 ~~~~~~~~~tEc~j                     o:no:m:icAdv~isod
Level of         DeparDepa    n                                 Department
Technical            for                     of                      of                               Laboratory
Operations       Technical               Economic               Regional
Coordinatiorn           Geology                 Geology
Level of
Special                       r ERTS                                         U.N. Water               Survey of
Programs                                                                      Program                Small Mines
Level                                              Department of
of                                                Administrative
Support                                              Services
LCPDF
July 1973



BOLIVTA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
Mineral Wcport Tonnages and Values, 1959-72 (Actual) and 1973 (Projected)
Tin        Silver     Tungsten     Copper    Antimony     Lead        Zinc        Bismuth
(tons)                                                                  (tons)
(thousand metric tons of metal content unless otherwise specified)
1959          24.2         140         1.4         2.2        5.5        22.0         3.4         221
1960          19.7         152         1.3         2.3        5.3        21.4         4.o         183
1961          20.7         121         1.7        2.1         6.7        20.3         5.3         211
1962          21.8         117         1.5        2.4         6.6        18.6         3.6         296
1963          23.1         151         1.4        3.0         7.6        20.1         4.6         280
1964          24.4         150         1.2         4.7        9.6        17.7         9.8         274
1965          24.2         128         1.1         4.7        8.8        17.5        13.7         297
1966          26.2         159         1.6         5.7       10.7        21.3        16.7         373
1967          27.4         140         1.9         6.3       11.5        20.3        16.7         531
1968          29.4         161         2.3        6.9        11.1        22.3        11.8         575
1969          29.9         107         2.3         8.0       13.1        25.2        26.6         669
1970          27.8         186         2.4        8.9        11.6        25.8        46.5         623
1971          30.3         179         2.6         7.8       11.7        23.3        45.4         677
1972          30.L         146         2.7         8.4       13.1        18.8        39,7         480
1973 (ProJ.)  31.2         150         2.9        8.9        13.6        20.3        43.7
(million U.S. dollars)
Tin       Silver      Tungsten   Copper    Antimony       Lead        Zinc        Bismuth       Total!/
1959          52.8         4.1         1.3         1.4        1.5         4.9         0.9         o.6           68.7
1960          42.8         4.5         1.5         1.5        1.4         4.8         1,2         0.5           60.0
1961          50-3         3.6         2.3         1.3        2.2         4.1         1.3         o.6           68.4
1962          54.0         3.9         1.7         1.5        2.4         3.5         0.9         0.9           71.2
1963          57.3         5.9         1.2         1.8         2.5        4.2         1.2         0.8           79.3
1964          80.-         6.2         1.4         3.2         5.5        4.9         3.1         0.9          110.6
1965          93-0         5.3         2.2         3.5        5.9         5.7         4.2         1.4          124.7
1966          93.3         6.6         5.1         6.2         5.3        6.4         5.0         1.4          133.4
1967          90.q         6.7         8.0         6.4        6.4         4.9         4.4         1.8          132.8
1968          92.5        11.2         9.7         7.7        6.o         5.1         3.0         2.0          141.1
1969         102.5        10.8        11.1        10.9       11.0         6.8         7.8         2.8          167.2
1970         102.3        10.5        17.6        12.5       31.0         7.8        14.3         8.0          205.1
1971         105.9         8.3        13.6         8.3         9.0        5.9        15.3         5.8          173.3
1972         112.6         7.5        10.3         8.8        9.1         5.7        15.4         n.a.         173.1
1973 (Proj.)  124.5        8.7        12.4         9.8         9.9        6.5        18.3          -           196.1
L/ Includes gold and other minerals       
source: Derived from data provided by Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy, La laz






ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
MEDIUM SIZE MINERS AND THEIR PROJECTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.   Potential Credit Beneficiaries
B.   Operations and Financial Results
Production and Exports
Technology
Employment and Working conditions
Management and Staffing
Financial Position
C.   Demand for Funds
D.   Subprojects
Projects Pipeline
Types of Projects
Equipment
Cost Estimates
Execution
E.   Effects of the Proposed Credit
Production and Exports
Employment
Ecology
Expected Financial and Economic Returns
Foreign Exchange Benefits
Table.    Exports by the members of the Medium
Miners Association in 1972.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
MEDIUM SIZE MINERS AND THEIR PROJECTS
A.   Potential Credit Beneficiaries
1.01      The credit program has been designed to serve a group of about 40
medium-size mining companies (hereinafter called the subborrowers) which are
capable of preparing and executing subprojects without any substantial tech-
nical assistance. The group includes the 20 members of the Association of
Medium Miners and some 20 miners from the small mining subsector. Of this
group, it is expected that about 20 companies would present bankable projects
to, and obtain financing from, BISA under the proposed IDA credit.
B.   Operations and Financial Results
2.01      Production and Exports.  Lack of complete data makes a full analysis
of the subborrowers difficult, particularly of those who are not members of
the Medium Miners Association. On the basis of the existing data, the group
of private companies potentially eligible under the credit program account for
more than 35% of the value of production of the Bolivian mineral sector but
only 25% of the export value. As indicated below they play a major role in
the production of antimony, copper, lead, tin and tungsten, but an almost
negligible role in the production of bismuth, silver and zinc.
Antimony             80-85%
Bismuth               2-3 %
Copper               45-50%
Lead                 25-30%
Silver                7-10%
Tin                  22-25%
Tungsten             55-60%
Zinc                  2-3 %
2.02      Medium-size miners have been by far the most dynamic group in the
mineral sector, accounting in 1960's for the total increase in the produc-
tion of antimony and zinc (the largest zinc mine has since been nationalized),
and the major part of the increases in copper, tin and tungsten. The growth
tapered off between 1968 and 1972 in the face of increased political uncer-
tainties, but is recovering.
2.03      The companies' share in the mineral exports vary considerably.  Ten
companies have annual sales in excess of US$1 million, including one company
whose sales exceed USSIO million. About 5 companies sell annually between
US$1/2 and 1 million and 5 others have sales between US$100,000 - 200,000.
The annual sales of some 20 remaining medium-size mining enterprises are less
than US$100,000 per year. The total export sales of 20 associated mining
enterprises are shown on Table 1 of this Annex.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.04      Technology.  Most of the mines exploit small to medium-size under-
ground lode and vein type deposits which need rather small scale operations
and in many cases preclude the use of modern mechanized underground methods.
Given the nature of the ore bodies, Bolivia's land-locked location, and the
high infrastructure burden placed on the companies (each is obliged to build
roads, social facilities, and, in addition, subsidize food and other goods
for workers), the operations are high cost compared to competitors in other
countries. This requires continuing innovation on the part of the miners, if
they are to remain competitive. Nevertheless, it is this group that has
largely brought to, or developed in, Bolivia advanced mining and mineral pro-
cessing technology. For instance, during the 1960's, the group installed
four dredges for working placer deposits, a tin flotation process, and started
a major modern underground mine. Its production efficiency has shown consis-
tent and in some cases marked improvement.
2.05      While further improvements are still necessary in the mining tech-
nology, it is in processing where the major future progress is required. The
Bolivian ores are typically complex which complicates processing, and requires
a very close process control. The latter field is not yet well developed by
the miners, although significant steps have been taken in this direction, as
is evident from the increased recovery ratios and the installation of facili-
ties to recover the mineral content of existing tailings dumps.
2.06      Employment and Working Conditions.  The companies jointly employ
between 8 to 10 thousand people, ranging from about 1,100 employees in the
largest company to 20 to 30 in the smaller ones; at least 10 companies employ
more than 300 people. Skill levels of the labor force vary significantly.
Some of the larger and/or more efficient mines have, with concerted train:Lng
efforts, developed a rather efficient work force, experienced in the use of
modern mining methods and equipment; others have not been so successful.
There is a pressing need to upgrade the skill levels of the employees, in
order to increase their productivity, hence real wages and the standard of
living. Most mining areas are characterized by high levels of unemployment
and there is an abundant supply of general labor for the mines.
2.07      Throughout the Bolivian mining sector safety practices, social
hygiene, health services and sanitation and housing conditions have been neg-
lected. Although this is somewhat less apparent in the operations of the
medium-size mines, improvements are necessary. This requires, however, direc-
tion and control by the Government. Mining companies can improve the situa-
tion by adopting the use of protective clothing, disciplining bad work prac-
tices and, most importantly, providing training for safe work procedures.
2.08      Management and Staffing.  Many of Bolivia's better managers as well
as geological, mining and metallurgical engineers are working for medium-size
mining companies. There is, however, a shortage of senior engineers with
administrative experience. As a result, engineering designs and production
planning are not given the emphasis they deserve and in some cases are entirely
neglected.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
2.09      Except for a few companies, accounting and financial planning re-
quires improvement. Good accountants and financial managers are scarce and
corporate planning is often overlooked. It is important, however, to recog-
nize that the political uncertainties prevailing within Bolivia often lead
management to concentrate on short-term objectives rather than long-term.
The members of the Medium Miners' Association are required by law to keep
proper accounts and do, overall, have adequate records. On the other hand,
companies not members of the Association are not required to, and in many
cases do not, keep proper accounts. Potential sub-borrowers are expected to
have accounts of adequate quality, and if not, would be required to upgrade
their accounting system.
2.10      The larger companies have qualified personnel capable of administer-
ing substantial investment programs. Others have gaps in the staffing; some
lack good administrators, engineers or financial staff. In all cases, the
subloans would be used as leverage for strengthening professional staff and,
if necessary, should be denied pending recruitment of qualified personnel.
There is also a shortage of suitably qualified consultants--technical and
financial--who could help some of the miners, but the practice of the more
sophisticated companies of contracting out services to other companies can
help fill the gap.
2.11      Financial Position.  The medium-size miners are generally finan-
cially sound and creditworthy. The largest company has fixed assets of more
than US$10 million equivalent with 1 or 2 others approaching this level; 2-3
others have assets valued at more than USS1 million but the remainder have
assets less than US$1 million but more than US$100,000. Most of the companies
have a low debt burden; many have no debt, the vast majority have a debt/equity
ratio of less than 1:1, leaving only a few with a higher ratio. This is
partly a reflection of the shortage of term funds and of the slowdown in
investment over the last 3 years. As a result of poor planning, one or two
of the companies have liquidity difficulties. Overall, these companies could
contract sizeable borrowings, still remaining within prudent debt/equity
relationships, and generate sufficient cash flows to service the subloans.
2.12      The level of profitability varies greatly among the companies and
between time periods, ranging from an after tax return on sales of more than
25% in some cases to occassional losses in others. Although being the most
efficient group of the Bolivian mining sector, the medium-size miners are
still high-cost producers relative to their foreign comDetitors. Their finan-
cial viability is therefore, highly susceptible to price fluctuations on the
world mineral market.
2.13      Profitabilitv.  Profitability varies significantly between the com-
panies, ranging from an after tax return on sales of more than 25% in a few
cases to occasional losses in others. With taxes based upon export value,
not profit, it was noted in several cases that taxes were higher than profits.
Overall, the companies would generate sufficient cash flows to service the
proposed subloans. Nevertheless, even though being the most efficient sub-
sector of the Bolivian mining industry, the companies are high cost producers
relative to their foreign competitors.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
C.   Demand for Funds
3.01      The investment demand of the subborrowers cannot be exactly deter-
mined. Tentative estimates indicate that some 35-50 projects, varying in size
from US$2 million to USS30-40,000 are either being executed or are in pre-
liminary or engineering stages. The total value of their investment needs
would be between US$15 million and US$20 million from mid-1973 to early 1976.
While the projects which are in the execution stage would not qualify for the
proposed IDA credit, it is reasonably certain that some other projects will
be prepared, as soon as it becomes evident that the credit is available.
3.02      The estimated total of US$15-20 million is broken down below.  It
shows that subprojects valued between US$7-9 million would need BISA's
financing.
US$ Million
Total investment through 1975                        15-20
Less:
(a) Projects already financed
BAMIN                  1 - 1-1/2
CBF                    1 - 1-1/2
PiDeline                1 - 1-1/2
3 - 4-172-
(b) To be financed by
other sources                       1-1/2 - 2
(c) Projects dropped or slipped
due to indicated non-
viability and/or the
applicant's inability
(technical and financial)
to proceed with project             1-1/2 - 2
Projects expected to be submitted to
BISA                                         9 - 11-1/2
Of which expected to be approved by
BISA (75% of applications)                   7 - 9
3.03      It is expected that the foreign exchange component would make up
65% of the project's total cost; thus the demand for foreign funds through
BISA should be between US$4-1/2 million and US$6 million from 1974 to early
1976. Accordingly, the allocation of US$5 million from the proposed IDA
credit is reasonable.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
D.        Subprojects
4.01      Project Pipeline.  It is expected that about 25 projects would be
financed under the IDA credit with an average total project cost of
US$300,000. The distribution of project size is expected to follow the
pai:tern presented below:
No. of Projects      Size of Projects       Total. Investment
6-7           Us$500,000 plus         US$3.5 - 4  million
8-10          US$200-500 thousand   US$2.5 - 3.5 million
8-10          USS50-200 thousand    USSi   - 1.5 million
22-27                                  US$7   - 9   million
4.02      Tynes of projects.  The subprojects would vary considerably in type
and character. Underground development, modernization and equipping of work
places, and haulage systems would be included as a part or the whole of about
three-fourths of all the subprojects. Many of these projects would also in-
clude components for modernization and expansion and even construction of new
beneficiation -lants. Some projects would include electrification of the mine
and camp area, primarily by the installation of diesel generating units, erec-
tion of housing and other social facilities as well as development of surface
mining and/or relocation of dredging facilities. A profile of the expected
content of subprojects is presented below.
Percentage of subprojects
Component                      with the indicated component
UJnderground Mine Development and
Modernization                                    60 - 70
Surface Mine Development (placer)                    12 - 20
Beneficiation Plant--Modernization and
Expansion                                         30 - 40
Benefication Plant--New Plant                        30 - 40
Installation of Camp Infrastructure                  12 - 20
Electrification of Mine and Plant                    12 - 20
4.03      Equipment.  The major single emphasis of the subprojects, apart from
expansion, is the equipping and modernization of operations, both in tfhe mine
and plant. In the mine this equipment will include jackleg drilling machines,
slushing equipment, possibly some load-haul-dumn equinment and drilling jumbos,
etc. The plant equipment would include crushing and grinding equipment,
screens, conveyors, gravity separation equipment, flotation cells, pumps piDing,
filtering and drying enuThment, etc. In acdition, surface materials handling
machinery, diesel generators, building supplies, workshop facilities, etc.,
would be required. Most of this equipment represents items with values less
than US$ 50,000. Some of the equipment items would have values in excess of
US$100,000 and in several cases equipment packages can be Dut together for
values above US$100,000. All equipment would have to be procured abroad, and
due to the geographic location of Bolivia, it will be necessary to procure, as
part of the original purchase, a full complement of spare parts.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
4.04      Cost Estimates.  An estimated cost breakdown of the mining credit
project is presented below:
US$ Million
% of
Item                              Local   Foreign      Total        Total
Mine Development                  1.2-1.5  0.2-0.3   1.4-1.8         20%
Machinery, Equipment and
Material                           -      4.2-5.4   4.2-5.4        60%
Civil Works                       1.0-1.1  0.1-0.3   1.1-1.4         15%
Engineering and Supervision         .3- .4     -        .3- .4        5%
Total                           2.5-3.0  4.5-6.0   7.0-9.0        100%
(percentages)                     (35)      (65)      (100)
4.05      The above estimate is necessarily tentative and would vary with the
mix of projects financed through BISA.  Investment in expansion of the benefi-
ciating plants or in new plants has a much higher equipment component than
mine development; however, a substantial part of the allocation for equipment
is for mining equipment for modernization of underground operations. Civil
works and mine development would mostly be done by local contractors.
4.06      Execution.  In most cases the subborrowers are suitably qualified to
engineer, schedule and supervise the subprojects. A few would, however, have
to obtain the services of consultants in the preparation or execution of their
projects. Also, while all mine development can be carried out by the company's
employees, some assistance from local contractors may be needed for plant con-
struction and erection. These aspects would require a thorough review of BISA
during its appraisal of each project.
E.   Effects of the Proposed Credit
5.01      Production and exports.  Of the projected 25 subprojects more than
half are expected to be tin projects; antimony, lead and tungsten together
will make up most of the remainder. The expected incremental production of
the subprojects financed by the credit is indicated below.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Production Increases- (1973-76)
Increase by BISA financed        Increase as % of Total
Mineral                          subprojects                    Bolivian Output
In metric tons % increase
Antimony                  1,500-2,000        10-15                    10-15
Copper                        0-  200         0- 6                    0- 2
Lead                        100-  200         2- 4                   1/2- 1
Tin                       1,800-2,200        15-20                     6- 7
Tungsten                    200-  300        15-20                     7-10
Zinc                        200-  300         4- 5                   1/2-3/4
/1   In terms of metal content.
In addition, negligible increases in bismuth, gold and silver output may be
realized. Although no gold projects have been identified it is possible
that, given -;he current high prices, several gold projects may be formulated
and presented to BISA. The above estimates, although very tentative, indi-
cate the mining credit should have a malor impact upon the exports of three
minerals: antimony, tin and tungsten.
5.02      Employment.  The subprojects would generate 200 to 300 additional
jobs.  This is a rather modest number, but the major objective of this min-
ing credit is modernization and efficiency of production. It would also
contribute to the improvement of safety and health conditions in the private
mines. An important side benefit of the subprojects would be the need to
train and upgrade the skills of the workers to cope with the new methods and
equipment.
5.03      Ecology.  Our knowledge of individual subprojects is not adequate
to ascertain any specific ecological problem which may arise. However, since
most operations are located on the altiplano which is almost devoid of vegeta-
tion, and since the subprojects are predominantly related to an underground
mining and simple gravity and flotation processing, the disposal of the tail-
ings would be the only problem. In some cases, the tailings are being reused
underground as sand-fill, in others, they are dumped on the surface or into
streams. The tailings are generally devoid of chemicals; hence, dumping into
streams (a practice rather than exception to the rule) merely results in the
silting up of the river basin. The major disadvantage is the loss of the op-
portunity of possible recovery of the mineral content retained in the tail-
ings, but no ecological problem is created.
5.04      Expected financial and economic returns.  Because of the nature,
variety and different stages of preparation of the subprojects, it is difficult
to estimate the impact of the credit program on the Bolivian economy.  The most
profitable subprojects would be those entailing expansion of existing facili-
ties, which would allow economics of scale by a more efficient use of overhead
and infrastructure. On the other hand, subprojects designed to extract and re-



ANNEX 4
Page 8
cover lower grade ore, previously left in the mine, would result in only slight
increases in production with possibly higher extraction costs. The financial
internal rate of return of the former subprojects would range from 15% and
(in exceptional cases) to 40%, while the latter subprojects would be in the
order of 10-15%. The adjustments that would have to be made to convert the
financial data into economic terms would basically consist of taxes and wages
since the subborrowers earn all income and incur most of the costs in foreign
exchange. Because of the relatively high tax burden on the mining sector and
the considerable unemployment in the altiplano, the economic rate of return
would be significantly higher than the above indicated financial rates of
return.
5.05      Foreign exchange benefits.  Since all production would be exported,
the effects on the balance of payments would be significant; gross export
earnings would increase by about US$9 million a year at full production or,
deducting the foreign exchange inputs required by the subprojects (about
US$2 million), resulting in net export earnings of about US$7 million a year.



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
EWPORTS BY THE MEMBES OF THE MEDIUM MNERS ASSOCIATION  IN 1972
Company                     Antimony   Copper  Lead   Silver  Tin   Tungsten   Zinc
- ------(in metric tons of contained metal)_-__---__
International Mining                                        922     1,277
Hormet                                                    1,495
Emusa                    5453                                31
Comsur                      95                28            B27               2
Nitto Mining                        3,423
Estaisa                                                     665
Fabulosa                                                    269
Pucro                                                       437
Ato roma                                                    350
Cerro Grande                                                304
Pabon                                  16                   196
Totoral                                                     177
Berenguela                                                  171
Pedro San Juan                                23
Churguini                  671
San Jose de Berque                           324     0.1               70
Santa Isabel                                                           26
Bernal Huas                 94
Casado                                       205     0.2
Total                    7,057      3,439    580     0.3  5,844    1,373    2,540
Source: Ministry of aining and Metallurgy
I- M
(D >
LCPOF
July 1 973






ANNEX 5
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
THE NATIONAL SURVEY OF SMALL MINES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.  Project Concept
B.   Background and Justification
C.   Objectives of the Project
Long-Term Objectives
Short-Term Objectives
D.   Plan of Work
E.   Administration and Staff
Institutional Set-up
Administrative Procedures
Staffing
F.   Project Costs
G.   Procurement
H.   Financing






XNNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
THE NATIONAL SURVEY OF SMALL MINES
A.   Project Concept
1.01      The project aims at improving the knowledge of Bolivia's mining
sector and resource base with special reference to the "Small Mining Sector".
It will include collecting and collating all the data on the small mining
operations that is available in the various puiblic and private agencies,
supplementing this by field inspections with the objectives of identifying
those mines with the best potential for expansion and those mineral deposits
with good potential and warranting further exploration.  An integral part
of the project is the provision of technical and direct exploration assistance
to selected small miners.
B.   Background and Justification
2.01      The small mining sector is made up of some 3,000 mines, and at any
given time, except in periods of extremely depressed mineral prices, more
than 1,000 of these will be in operation. These operating units range from
1 man or 1 family mines to companies which compare in size and output to the
smaller medium sector companies. The small mines are generally operated on
a primitive basis characterized by poor health and inadequate safety standards,
little exploration, little working capital, antiquated technology, lack of
equipment and low productivity. Although many of the mineral deposits could
support medium or large scale extraction, they are mined on a small scale
only because the high grade of ore makes such operation relatively economic.
This leads, however, to the tendency to "high grade" orebodies. There is
little doubt that some deposits could make a significant contribution to the
development of Bolivia, but the average small miner has neither the capital
nor the technical comDetence to explore and properly exploit his ore reserves.
This has in the past placed a severe constraint on the development of the
sector.
2.02      Considerable technical and financial assistance will be indispen-
sable if Bolivia is not only to improve the exploration effort and the effi-
ciency of exploiting reserves but also to raise the living conditions of the
small miner. The mining enterprises do not have the necessary funds to make
significant changes; consequently Government cooperation is essential.  To
this end, the project is directed toward obtaining consistent information and
providing a solid foundation that will make the small mining sector eligible
for support from national and foreign credit agencies.
C.   Objectives of the Project
Long-Term Objectives
3.01      The objective is to produce the information required to raise the
relative importance of the small mining sector by introducing considerations



ANNEX 5
Page 2
of efficiency into its operations, diversifying production and increasing the
output and income of the subsector. The project will be a start to coordina-
tion of preinvestment activities and the programming of exploration work.
3.02      The project will be a very important forerunner for:
(a) the provision of credit to the small miners;
(b) establishing an exploration fund; and
(c)  locating regional concentrators.
S_ort-Term Objectives
3.03      The more immediate objectives of the project are:
(a) to compile all possible information on geoloRical and
technical operations relating to the Bolivian mining industry,
with special emphasis on the small mining sector:
(b) to analyze that information systematically, summarize
it and determine gaps in knowledge on mining enterprises
and specific areas and identify mines offering high
potential for expansion;
(c) to assign priorities on the basis of (b) above for the
provision of technical and exploration assistance to
the small mining sector;
(d) provide such technical and exploration assistance to
selected small mines, in order to improve the efficiency
of their operations, identify and prepare new and expan-
sion projects, prepare feasibility studies of these
projects, and generally upgrade these operations to make
them creditworthy and acceptable for Bank financing;
(e) to train miners and operators in modern exploration and
exploitation techniques, through practical demonstrations
and seminars; these tasks will not involve expenditures
under the project since the miners will participate at
their own expense;
(f) to prepare a plan for continued technical assistance to
other small mines with expansion potential;
(g) to identifv areas of superior mineral potential, establish
exploration requirements and prepare a detailed plan for
exploration; this will importantly assist in establishing
priorities for work to be conducted under the Exploration
Fund;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(h) to contribute to national geological research and to
improve knowledge of the location, development and exploita-
tion of mineral resources in Bolivia: this should help
identify the metallogenic provinces of Bolivia; and
(i) strengthen GrOBOL with experts to conduct the program and
improve its capacity for ore body evaluation and exploration
assistance; the necessary equipment will be provided.
D.   Plan of Work
4.01      The Government has commissioned Servicio Geologico de Bolivia
(GEOBOL) to execute this project and to coordinate with other agencies such
as BAMIN (Banco Minero-Mining Bank), COIIBOL (Corporacion Minera de Bolivia-
Bolivian Mining Corporation),  1MM (Instituto de Investigaciones Minero-
Metalurgical-Institute for Mining and Metallurgical Research), COBOEN (Comison
Boliviana de Energia Nuclear-Bolivian Nuclear Energy Commission), Camara
NFacional y Departamental de Mineria (National and Departmental Chamber of
Mines), Asociacion de Mineros Medianos (Association of Medium Miners), etc.
The plan of woi:k will be as set forth below:
Descri2tion of Phases                                      Period Scheduled
I.  Planning and Organization of the Survey           February - June 1973
II.  Compilation of Data                               July - September 1973
III.  Tabulation of Data                                October -
December 1973
IV.  Analysis and Evaluation of Data                   November 1973 -
March 1974
V. Recruitment of Experts and Preparation
and Issuing of Purchase Documents
for Equipment                                   September 1973 -
May 1974
VI. Arrival of Economic Geologist and Expert
in Organization and Mining Administration    February - April 1974
VII.  Arrival of Equipment and Machinery                 February - June 1974
VIII. Planning the Field Work for the Selected
Mines and Programs                              February - April 1974
IX.  Arrival of Expert in Geophysics                   March - May 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Description of Phases                                    Period Scheduled
X. Geological and Technical Examination of
Selected Mines. Identification of
Expansion Projects, Preparation of
Development Plans for the Selected Mines,
Exploration of the Selected Mines,
including Diamond Drilling, Drift Sampling
and Geophysics. Preparation of Geological
Maps and Ore Reserve Calculations              April - December 1974
XI.  Arrival of Diamond Drilling Expert               May - July 1974
XII.  Preparation of Preliminary Technical             July 1974 -
Reports for Each Mine Selected                       January 1975
XIII. Preparation of Pre-feasibility Studies
for the Individual Projects                    January - May 1975
XIV. Final Report: Conclusions and
Recommendations                                March - May 1975.
4.02      As indicated above, and supported in Chart I the program involves
first collecting and collating all data available on the sector and from this
identifying those small mines with the best potential for development and
those areas with the best geological potential. Teams consisting of mining
engineers and geologists will then be made available to the selected mines to
assist in upgrading work practices, identifying expansion projects and deter-
mining the exploration requirements of each mine. This will be backed up as
needed by surface and underground drilling and sampling in order to prove up
sufficient ore reserves to make the miner creditworthy. The team will assist
the miner prepare a feasibility study of his expansion project, which may
then be used for obtaining finance. An expert will also be available to help
the miners improve managerial procedures and establish a reporting and account-
ing system. A final report will be prepared summarizing the work done by the
survey and listing the projects that have been prepared. The report will also
make specific recommendations for future exploration considered of high prior-
ity in areas with high mineral potential.
E.  Administration and Staffing
Institutional Set-Up
5.01      The funds, both foreign and domestic, will be channelled through
the Central Bank which will keep accounts for the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
5.02      GEOBOL will have primary responsibility for carrying out the survey
and will for this purpose establish a new department. (See Annex 2 for
details on GEOBOL's organization.) The internal structure of the new depart-
ment (see Chart II) is designed to reflect an integrated action; a very
necessary part of the survey. The department will be divided into 3 opera-
tional divisions: Exploration, Geophysics and Drilling.
5.03      The Exploration Division will be responsible for:
(a)  investigating and delimiting already known deposits;
(b)  evaluating the deposits being worked;
(c)  evaluating work methods being used by the miners and
recommending improvements;
(d)  identifying expansion pro4ects and assisting the miners
to plan and prepare such projects;
(e)  determining exploration work required, including
geophysical and drilling.
The division will be made up of 8 teams; with a gradual build up reaching the
full complement at the beginning of Step VIII. Each team will be made up of
a mining engineer, a geologist, a medium-level technician and unskilled
workers. This division will be resnonsible for underground drift sampling,
trenching and pitting on the surface, and preparation of the geological maps
for each of the selected mines.
5.04      The Geophysics Division will supplement the exploration work where
the results are promising. It will use geophysical methods to continue the
extension, delimitation and specification of deposits. It will be made up
of 3 teams, each team consisting of a geophysicist, a medium-level technician
and unskilled workers.
5.05      The Drilling Division will obtain the quantification data needed
for the evaluation and exploitation of specific deposits. This will include
surface and underground drilling as defined by the Exploration Division. It
will be made up of 6 teams; each comprising a medium-level technician and
unskilled workers.
5.06      In addition, a Central Projects Division will be established as
part of the Department of Technical Coordination, charged with preventing
duplication of effort and cooperating in the work programming both in the
Small Mine Survey and with the other departments of GEOBOL.
Administrative Procedures
5.07      The department will be headed by a Director, selected from the
existing GEOBOL staff. The foreign advisors will report to the Director but



ANNEX 5
Page 6
also maintain a very close liaison with the respective divisions. The suc-
cess of the project will to a large extent be dependent upon the qualifica-
tions of the Director and the advisors and also importantly to the cooperation
and coordination between the advisors and their respective divisions and
coordination between the divisions.
5.08      The early work in collecting and evaluating data and planning the
field work will be the responsibility of the Director, Advisors and engineers
from the Exploration Division. This work will be documented in a plan of
work which will be used as a basis for control of the field work; modified
from time to time as considered necessary. In addition to the reports
mentioned under the work plan, it is recommended that for control purposes,
brief monthly reports be submitted by each team outlining work done, changes
made to work program and presenting major findings and recommendations for
the month.
5.09      To ensure coordination between GROBOL and the other agencies con-
tributing to the program, coordination committees will be established where
necessary, under the aegis of the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy. Clear
rules for coordination are being established and will be included as one of
the basic instruments for execution of the program.
Staffing
5.10      The total staffing requirement for the project is summarized below:
Number of Personnel Required at End of Each Quarter
1973                   1974             1975
lst   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st
Position                  Qtr.  Qtr.  Qtr.  Qtr;   t    Qtr.  Qtr.  Qtr.  Qtr:
Director                   -     -      1     1     1      1     1      1     1
Foreign Advisors           -     -      -     -     3      4     4     4      3
Administrator              -     -      -     -     1      1     1      1     1
Mining Engineers           3     3      3     6     8      8     8      8     8
Geologists                 -     -      -     -     8      8     8     8      8
Geophysicists              -     -      -     -     3      3     3     3      3
Mid-level Technicians      -     -      3     3     3      8     8      8     8
Draftsmen and Topographers-      -      -     2     3      7     7      7     7
Secretary                  1     1      1     2     2      4     4     4      4
Chief of Maintenance       -     -      -     -     1      1     1     1      1
Diamond Drillers           -     -      -     -     -      6     6     6      -
Chauffeurs                 -     -      -     -    20    20    20    20    20
Others                     -     -      -     -     2    50    50    50       2
Total                 4     4     8    14    55   121   121   121    66
5.11      It is thus necessary to have a rapid buildup of staff in early
1974. No problems are expected in recruiting the chauffeurs, miscellaneous
laborers, and drillers. The secretaries, mid-level technicians, draftsmen



ANNEX 5
Page 7
and topographers will be primarily drawn from within GEOBOL as will the min-
ing engineers, geologists and geophysicists, although some external recruit-
ing will be required to fill all the positions. The Departmental Director
will be appointed from within GEOBOL.
Future Work of Department
5.12      The program as presented above indicates that the project will be
completed by early 1975. This does not, however, imply closing the new
department, but it is fully expected that the program will be continued after
the final report is completed. An integral part of the project as now
defined and which may be referred to as Phase I of the department's operations,
will be to prepare a program for continued operations (or Phase II). Assist-
ance for this second phase is being sought from such bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies as: Canadian International Development Agency, Bureau de
Recherche Geologique et Miniere, Overseas Development Administration,
U.S. Bureau of Mines, Inter-American Development Bank, Andean Development
Corporation, etc.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
F.   Project Costs
6.01      The project cost is sumnarized below:
Total Cost                 Expenditure Schedule
1973              1974                1975
Domes-   For-  Domes-   For-    Domes-    For-    Domes-    For-
Cost Items    tic      eign   tic       ecgn      tic      eign      tic
(US$'000 equivalent)
A. Foreign
Advisors    -      191.0    -         -        -        153.0      -        38.0
B. Counter-
part Staff
(salaries/
Social
Benefits)  206.8    -       12.1      -      138.0        -       56.7        -
C. Machinery
and
Equipment   -      526.0    -         -        -        505.0      -        21.0
D. Field
Expenses   48.5      -       -4.5                         - 4-
E. Sub-
Contracts   -       20.0    -         -        -         20.0
F. Rent         2.7      -      -        -         2.7       -        -         -
G. Materials
& Supplies 15.0    20.0    -         -        12.5       18.0      2.5       2.0
H. Physical &
Price Con-
tingencies 40.9    50.0    1.8                30.3       40.0      8.9      10.0
TOTAL   313.91  807.(   13.9      -       232.0      736.0    68.1       71.0
1120.9           13.9               968.0               139.1
6.02      These estimates are based on a carefully structured work plan and
detailed equipment list and can therefore be considered representative. While
sufficient allowance has been made for equipment and spare parts to ensure
3 to 4 years of survey work the provision for staffing is only sufficient for
work to the first half of 1975. Continuation of work past this will require
additional costs, mainly in the form of counterpart staff.
6.03      Sufficient equipment is included in the project to meet the objec-
tives of the program, with the exception of laboratory equipment which GEOBOL
has secured with U.K. and Japanese credits. This includes 2 atomic spectome-
ters, and 3 electronic microscopes, which should give GEOBOL the facilities
to analyze up to 8000 samples per month. Laboratory floor space will be pro-
vided as part of a new building presently under construction. Office space
is presently being planned for in the existing building.
1/   Includes US$43,000 to be disbursed in foreign currency which larpely
covers the import content of the local costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
G.   Procurement
7.01      Owing to the large number of equipment items, equipment will be
largely procured on the basis of international shopping, rather than inter-
national bidding. The value of all equipment packages is less than USS100,000
except for the diamond drills and accessories which have been costed at about
US$240,000. These will be put out for international bid but the provision of
a back-up service must be of prime consideration in bid evaluation. Advisory
services would be obtained by a broad-based international recruitment.
H.   Financing
8.01      It is expected that the project will be financed as indicated below:
Amount
Source                         Foreign Currency   Local Currency   Total
(US $000)
GEOBOL                                                   21.7          21.7
Bolivian Government                    -                249.2         249.2
I.D.A.                               807.0               43.0 1/      850.0
Total Financing                 807.0              313.9        1120.9
8.02      The IDA credit would cover all direct foreign exchange costs plus
the estimated import component of materials and supplies and the field
expenses attributable to the foreign advisors. The local currency expenses
(approximately US$270,000 equivalent) would be met by GEOBOL and Government
budget allocations.
1/   This amount, which would be disbursed in foreign currency, covers largely
the import component of the local costs.



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
Schedule for the Survey of Small Mines
1973                       1974               1975
Steps                         Months      J F M A M J J A E O_N D   J F M A M J J A S O N D   J F MA
I.  Planning and Organization
II.  Compilation of Data
III.  Tabulation of Data
IV. Analysis Evaluation and Summary
V. Recuiting Experts and Procurement
of Equipment
VI.  Arrival of Experts in
Economic Geology                                                    -
Mining organization
VII.  Arrival of Equipment
7III. Planning of Field Work
IX. Arrival of Geophysical Expert
X. Field Work
XI. Arrival of Diamond Drilling Expert
XII.  Preparation of Technical Report
III.  Preparation of Feasibility Reports
XIV.  Final Report
LCPDF
m
Ju'ly 1973                                                                                                                  C



BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
GEOBOL: STRUCTURE OF NEW DEPARTMENT TOl BE-ESTABLISHED TO CARRY OUT THE SURVEY OF SMALL KINES
Director
^  ____-________________ _.    Foreign
Administration 1                               dvisors
Exploration                       Geoph;ysics                                         Diamnd
and IlAnventory                     Division                                            Drilling
DiLvision                                                                             Division
2 Jackleg
Drilling                     Draftsmen                                   Draftsmen
Crews
8 Field Teams                      3 Field Teams                                       6 Drilling
Crews
Auxiliary                          Auxiliary                                           Auxiliary
Personnel                          Personnel                                           Personmel
Flield Toams Include                 Field Teams Include                                 Drilling Crews Include
1   *nig  Engineer                   1  Geophysicist                                     1  Dri.ller
1   Geologist                        1  Topographer                                      1  Chauffeurs
1   Engineering Assistant            1  Chauffeur                                        2  Helpers
1   Chauffeur                        2
2
3   Samplers
TJ1PDF
July 1973






ANNEX 6
BOLIVIA-A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANTCE PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.   Introduction
B.   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy
Background and Justification
Objectives and Scope of Technical Assistance
Timing
Organization and Cost of the Program
Financing
C.  An Examination of the System for Taxing the Mineral Sector
Background and Justification
Objectives and Scope of the Study
Timing
Cost of the Study
Financing of the Study
D.   Preparatory Work for the Proposed Exploration Fund
Background and Justification
Brief Description of the concept of the Exploration Fund
Objectives and Scope of Preparatory Work
Timing
Cost of Preparatory Work
Financing
E.   Summary of Total Costs and Financing of the Technical
Assistance Program






ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA-A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRA
A.   Introduction
1.01      The proposed technical assistance program is composed of 3 parts:
(a)  the provision of assistance to the Ministry of Mining
and Metallurgy, for strengthening the planning, docu-
mentation and supervision functions of the Ministry.
(b)  an examination of the system of taxing the mineral
industry; and
(c)  preparation work for the proposed Exploration Fund.
1.02      Justification for, and details of each of these components are
presented below.
B. Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy
Background and Justification
2.01      Efficient development of the mining sector requires that a clear
policy for the development and operation of the sector be formulated and
closely administered by the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy. The principal
functions of the Ministry should be the formulation of mineral development
policy with back-up studies and plans, administration of the mining code and
related legislation, statistical compilation and record keeping of mining
activity, control and inspection of safety measures and sound mining practice.
However, the Ministry as it now exists is weak and the work it conducts in
these fields is not very effective. The basic problems center around an in-
adequate budget, low salaries and hence poor staffing, insufficient expertise
and poor management. Political interference in the staffing of the Ministry
also adversely affects its effectiveness.
2.02      The Ministry officials recognize these shortcomings and in early
1972 prepared a 3 phase plan to reorganize and strengthen the administration.
An administrative Reorganization Law (September 1972) more clearly defined
the responsibilities of the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy and the Ministry
is presently drawing up detailed regulations for all the directorates and
semi-autonomous agencies under its supervision. Its staff has also been aug-
mented by 11 professionals (about 20% increase in total staff) during 1972-73.
Nevertheless, little improvement yet is evident, and the Ministry has re-
quested technical assistance to help clarify its functions and strengthen its
administration, with particular reference to its planning and documentation
functions.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Objectives and Scope of the Technical Assistance Program
2.03      The technical assistance program would include:
A. Planning Office
(a) strengthening the planning office within the Ministry
(Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion) by engaging various
specialists in mineral sector planning, project pre-
paration and evaluation, financial analysis, and admin-
istration and organization of public agencies;
(b) making a study of the organization, staffing, adminis-
tration and operations of the public agencies operating
in the mineral sector; and planning and coordinating the
functions of these entities;
(c) training of Bolivians as counterparts of the foreign ex-
perts, by the provision of scholarships to foreign uni-
versities and on the job training at foreign installa-
tions;
(d) providing vehicles and field equipment for the necessary
field work; and
(e) engaging an expert in mineral commercialization to re-
view the existing marketing channels and to advise on
marketing procedures and policy.
B. Documentation Center
(a) engaging an expert in the organization and operation of a
documentation center, to help establish such a center and
establish a system for data collection and recording;
(b) providing equipment for the documentation center such as:
microfilming cameras, processors and projectors; photo-
copy machines and indexing systems.
Timing
2.04      This program should take place over a period of 15-18 months, start-
ing with the arrival of some of the foreign experts, hopefully by the end of
the first quarter of 1974. The program should be completed by mid-1975, but
could extend to the end of 1975 if any difficulty is had in obtaining the
necessary experts.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Organization and Cost of the Program
2.o5      The estimated cost of the program is briefly presented below:
A. Planning Office
Item                                                        Co,F ts
Foreign      Local       Total
Foreign Experts                                        US$ equivalent)
1 Expert in Planning (9 months)
1 Expert in Project Preparation and
Evaluation (6 months)
1 Expert in Administration and
Organization (6 months)
1 Financial Analyst (6 months)
1 Expert in Mineral Marketing (12 months)
1 Statistician (6 months)
Sub-Total
(45 months at US$3,000/month)             135,000         _        135,000
Counterpart Staffing
1 Expert in Planning (14 months at
US$1,000/month)                                -         14,000      14,000
2 Staff Members for Project Preparation and
Evaluation (36 months each at US$400/month) -           28,800      28,800
1  Statistician (24 months at US$500 month)        -          12,000     12,000
1 Bilingual Secretary (24 months at
US$300/month)                                 -           7,200      7,20
Sub-Total                                     -         62,000      62,000
Subsistence for Foreign Experts
(45 months at US$450/month)                        -         20,250      20,250
Travel for Foreign Experts (6 return
trips at US$1,000)                              6,000         -         6,000
Travel for Local Counterparts (14 return
trips at US$600)                                8,400         -         8,400
Foreign Training of Counterparts
2 Metallurgical Engineers (6 months each
at US$600/month)                             7,200         -         7,200
2 Mining lhgineers (6 months each
at US$600/month)                             7,200         -         7,200
2 Mineral Economists (10 months each
at US$500/month)                            10,000         -        105000
2 Project Analysts (6 months each
at US$600/month)                             7,200         -         7,200
2 Sector Planners (6 months each
at US$600/month)                             7,200         -         7,200
2 Statisticians (10 months each
at US$250/month)                             5,000         -         52000
Sub-Total                                   43,800         -        43,800



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Item                                                         Costs
Foreign      Local      Total
(US$ equivalent)
Local Training of Counterparts
2  Metallurgical Engineers (6 months each
at US$300/month)                               ^        3,600        3,600
2 Mining Engineers (6 months each
at US$300/month)                               -        3,600        3,600
2  Planners (6 months each at US$300/month)         -        3,600        3,600
2 Project Supervisors (21 months
at US$300/month)                              -                    6,300
Sub-Total                                     -       17,100       17,100
Field Equipment
3  Vehicles                                       12,000       -         12,000
Materials for Field Work                       10,000      -          10.000
Sub-Total                                   22,000      -          22,000
Total Planning Office                      215,200    99,350      314,550
B.   Documentation Center
1  Foreign Expert in Management of Docu-
mentation Center (6 months at
US$2,000/month)                              12,000      -          12,000
Counterpart Staffing                             -        2,000        2,000
Materials and Supplies                         15,000     1,000       16,000
Travel of Foreign Expert (one return
trip at US$1,000)                             1,000      -           1,000
Subsistence for Foreign Expert (6 months
at US$450/month)                               -        2?700        2,700
Microfilming and Photocopying Equipment        18,700      -          18,700
Furniture                                        -        3,400       33,40
Total Documentation Center                  46,700     9,100       55,800
TOTAL                         261,900   1082450      370,350



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Financing
2.06      The costs as detailed above would be financed by the IDA Credit
and by Government budgetary allocations as indicated below.
Source                                         Amount
(US$ )
IDA Credit
-for direct foreign exchange costs             261,900
-for subsistence payments to foreign
experts                                       22,950
Sub-total                                 284,850
Bolivian Government:
-contribution in kind (i.e., staff
included in present budgets)                   56,800
-additional costs directly attribu-
table to program                               28,700
Sub-total                                  85,500
TOTAL FINANCING                           370,350
C.   An Examination of the System for Taxing the Mineral Sector
Background and Justification
3.01      The tax regime under which the mining sector operates, while simple
as originally laid out in the 1965 Mining Code, has been complicated by subse-
quent legislation. The principal tax on the mineral sector as specified in
the 1965 Mining Code is the tax on mineral exports payable at the same time
the mineral is exported. The rates of this tax have been established by
several Supreme Decrees as indicated below:
Supreme Decree            Date            Minerals
07360                October 18, 1965    Tin
07447                December 22, 1965   Wolfram, Antimony, Copper,
Lead, Zinc, Silver,
Bismuth
08499                October 3, 1968      Sulphur
09082                March 8, 1972        Copper, Tungsten,
Antimony
10379               July 28, 1972         Copper
3.02      For these minerals specific royalty schedules have been developed
which vary accordingly to the market quotations for the mineral. Minerals
which do not have a specific royalty schedule are subject to an export royalty
of 2-1/2% of their gross value. These royalty schedules based upon export
value were set up on the basis of assumed production costs which have not
been adequately adjusted to compensate for changes in the cost structure of
the industry. Several major inequities result from this tax as indicated
below:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(a)  since the tax is not tied to profit the tax burden on the
high-cost producer can be quite heavy, and is in fact at
times in excess of pre-tax profits;
(b)  on the other hand, the low-cost producers may contribute
a low proportion of their profits to the state;
(c)  the burden of taxation on the low-grade small mines can
be excessive in Bolivia and hence effectively hinder the
development of these mines (deposits);
(d)  significantly different tax burdens are placed upon the
mining entities according to the minerals produced, as
indicated in the following table:
Royalty By Minerals
( in U.S. currency)
Mineral   Price 1969           Royalty Rate  Price March 1973   Royalty Rate
Tin         $1.70/lb                10.6%        $2.00/lb             14.8%
rungsten  $40 per long ton unit    9.0%          $55                 18.1%
Antimony  $ 8 per long ton unit    7.5%          $12                  17.5%
Copper       504/lb                 6-8%          65i                  5.0%
Lead         13j/lb                   -            17i                 2.9%
Bismuth     $5/lb                    3.0%        $ 4.5/lb              3.0%
Zinc         13j/lb                   -           224/lb              4.4%
Others                               2.5%          -                   2.5%
3.03      Other taxes affecting the industry are:  (a) a foreign exchange
tax; all sales revenue must be repatriated and sold to the Central Bank at
a rate of 16.80 pesos per US$. Imports and foreign debt service obligations
are met by repurchasing foreign exchange at a rate of 20.0 - 20.40 pesos
per US$; (b) a sales commission of 0.75% of sales value paid to BAMIN, regard-
less of whether or not commercialization is done by BAMIN; (c) a charge of
0.75% of sales value paid to IIMM to support mineral and metallurgical
research activities; (d) a special tax imposed by Supreme Decree 10550 as a
temporary measure to obtain additional tax revenue following devaluation on
October 27, 1972. This included a 20% tax on the net value (sales value
less realization transport and handling costs, less royalties and other
taxes and 10% of sales). The 20% tax did not apply to increases in exports,
and was supposed to be released after 1 year; (e) a 5% tax on the amount
of revalued assets resulting from the devaluation; (f) other minor taxes
such as: employee tax, payroll tax, interest tax, and a 20% tax on re-
patriated dividends are also applicable to the industry.
3.04      At present all taxes are unrelated to profitability and hence
must be considered fixed costs by the mine operator. This can have the
effect of:



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(a) using a higher mine cut-off grade than if tax was related
to profit, hence leading to wasting of ore reserves, and high
grading cf deposits;
(b) making some of the more marginal orebodies uneconomic to
exploit;
(c) act as a disincentive to reinvest in the sector. This is
readily apparent, with much of the earnings from the sector
being directed into other sectors with equivalent or better
returns but with lighter tax burdens. In some cases,
earnings have been diverted at the expense of equipment
replacement and maintenance with a resultant running down
of the mining facilities.
Objectives and Scope of the Study
3.05      It is quite apparent from the above that a review and a revision of
the tax system is urgently needed. The purpose of the study would be to
thoroughly review the existing tax structure to assess whether the development
of the mining industry is actually being hindered by taxation and whether the
mining industry is contributing an adequate amount of revenue to the State.
The study should include:
(a) identification of any inequities inherent in the present
system, along the lines discussed above:
(b) a determination of the amount and distribution of the
tax burden and how it compares with systems employed by
other miling countries and hence affects the competitive-
ness of Bolivian industry;
(c) an evaluatiGn of how the tax burden on the mining sector
compares with other sectors, and hence the incentives or
disincentives to invest in the mining sector vis-a-vis
other sectors;
(d) a review of the applicability of alternative tax systems:
to what extent are the accounts kept by the mining companies
adequate basis for taxing on a profit basis? What revisions
would be required? What administrative changes would be
necessary within the Government? What legislative changes
would be necessary within the Government? What legislative
changes would be needed? etc?



ANNEX 6
Page 8
3.06      A report would be produced recommending future taxation policies,
including:
(a) the tax structure and rates;
(b) administrative procedures; and
(c) legislative requirements.
An estimate should be made of the tax revenues expected under the new system,
and compared to the existing system. The report should clearly define the
expected benefits under the new system, the added investment, and any anti-
cipated catalytic effect. A comparison should also be made with other sectors
in Bolivia; the report should also provide detailed schedules and procedures
for implementing the recommendations, clearly identifying staffing needs.
3.07      Timing.  It is expected that the terms of reference for the study
could be drawn up and approved by the Government within 2 months after formal
approval by the Government to proceed. A proposed timetable for the study is
presented below:
Timing
1. Preparing terms of reference for study                    March 1974
2. Issuing Invitation to several consultants to
present proposals                                        April 1974
3. Receipt of proposals and evaluation                       May 1974
4. Negotiating contract with consultant selected             June 1974
5. Mobilization of consultants                               Late June/early
July 1974
6. Survey in field and preparing report (5 months)           July-November 1974
7. Submission of a draft report to the Government            November 1974
8. Review of the report by the Government
(2-3 months)                                             December 1974-
February 1975
9. Completion of final report incorporating
Govermment's comments                                    April 1975
3.05      Hence, by mid-1975, it should be possible for the Government to
begin implementing the needed tax procedures.
3.09      Cost of the Study. Preliminary estimates for the cost of the study
are presented below:



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Item                                           Foreign      Local     Total
___________- US$--
Consultant Costs
(2 experts at 6 months = 12 manmonths
at $3,000/month)                               36,000       -       36,000
Travel:  international and local                  6,000     500         6,500
Materials and supplies                              500     500         1,000
Subsistence (12 manmonths at US$450)                 -    5,400         5,400
Sub-total                                   42,500   6,400       48,900
Counterpart Costs
Professional staff:
-preparing terms of reference (3 manmonths)          -    2,100         2,100
-assisting consultants (12 manmonths)                -    6,000         6,000
-reviewing draft report and preparing brief
for Government consideration (8 manmonths)         -    3,000         3,000
Miscellaneous assistants (18 manmonths)              -    3,000         3,000
Materials and supplies                               -      500           500
Sub-total                                       -   14,600        14,600
Total Cost of Study                         42,500  21,0          63,500
Financing of Study
3.10      The costs are detailed above would be financed as follows:
IDA Credit                                                              US$
1.   Consultant Costs (including subsistence)                         $47,900
Government Budgetary Allocations
1. Contribution in kind (re-allocations of
staff on existing payrolls)                                      14,100
2. Additional Budget Allocations directly
related to study                                                  1,500
Total Financing                                                   63,500



ANNEX 6
Page 10
D.   Preparatory Work for the Proposed Exploration Fund
Background and Justification
4.01      As noted during the Mining Sector Survey conducted for Bolivia in
1971 1/ the major single factor limiting development of the mining sector in
Bolivia is the lack of funds for exploration activity. In the past 20 years
"grass-roots" exploration in Bolivia has been minimal with only a few small
"discoveries" resulting despite the fact that there are numerous locations
where surface indications would justify exploration. Exploration for
reserves in the existing mines, particularly in those of COMIBOL, and the
majority of the small mining sector has been badly neglected with the result
that most mines are operating with little knowledge of ore reserves. This
prevents adequate mine planning which leads to poor recovery of ore reserves,
higher mining costs, and possibly lower mill recoveries. It also may result
in smaller scale operations than justified by the size of the orebody, hence
higher cut-off grades and a restricted sector output.
4.02      The lack of reserves severely limits the ability of the operators
to prepare expansion projects, and to obtain financing for projects. Not
only does this restrict sector output but, as Bolivia is the highest cost
tin producer in the world, it may continue to lose ground in the competitive
world market, unless serious intensive efforts are made to find and exploit
more economic deposits to replace many of the existing high-cost operators,
and to diversify into other metallic and non-metallic minerals. Hence, top
priority within the sector should be the provision of additional funds for
exploration. There is insufficient risk capital available within Bolivia
to have any significant effect, even given more favorable legislation and
policies to attract this capital into the mineral sector. This creates the
need for foreign capital either as direct investment or as support to the
Government for establishing an exploration fund. In view of the Bolivian
political situation it is not realistic to expect any significant quantities
of mining venture capital to enter Bolivia in the immediate future, leaving
the Exploration Fund as the most viable alternative. The Exploration Fund
has the added advantage that it is expected to act as a catalyst to both
domestic and foreign risk capital, and also to provide a mechanism for coor-
dination of the exploration efforts within the country, to institute a
rational apDroach to establishing exploration priorities, and to avoid the
duplication of exploration efforts.
Brief Description of the Concept of the Exploration Fund
4.03      The concept of an Exploration Fund entails setting up a fund to be
expended on a project-by-project basis in conjunction with other sources of
risk capital, public and private. The mining companies, public and private,
1/   The Mlining and Metallurgical Sector:  Bolivia Report PI-4a,
December 7, 1972.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
would approach the fund with requests for financial assistance for a specific
exploration program. These programs would be carefully screened and priori-
ties established which would help to ensure best use of the funds. If unsuc-
cessful the recipient of the funds would be under a limited or no obligation
to repay, but if successful the mining operations established on the proven
deposits would be the source of replenishment funds. It is possible that in
time the Exploration Fund could be converted into a revolving fund to main-
tain an uninterrupted mineral exploration effort.
Objectives and Scope of Preparatory Work
4.04      This should include recommendations regarding:
(a) the institution(s) to administer the fund;
(b) administrative procedures;
(c) staffing requirements;
(d) the type of exploration to be financed by the fund;
(e) the criteria to be used for project selection:
(f) the proportion of each exploration program to
be financed by the fund, by type of client;
(g) the types of contracts under which the exploration
is carried out;
(h) the repayment requirements and the criteria for
determining repayment obligations;
(i) the initial financing requirements of the fund for,
say, a period of 3 to 4 years, costs broken down
into local and foreign currency requirements;
(j) the expected results of the program.
4.05      This work would be carried out by an expert with previous experi-
ence in establishing and administering such funds. The expert would be
supported by counterpart staff assigned from either the Ministry of Mining
and Metallurgy or another agency as determined by the Government. The end
result would be a report clearly identifying the institutional arrangements,
administration and procedures for establishing the fund, as listed above.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
Timing
4.06      An important input into this preparatory work would be the prelimi-
nary results of the survey of small mines, hence the work should start in mid-
1974 and would be expected to require approximately 3-4 months. Thus, the
report which could be used as the basis for establishing the Exploration Fund
would be completed by the fourth quarter of 1974.
Cost of Preparatory Work
4.07      Estimated project costs are as follows:
Cost
Item                             Foreign             Local             Total
--_  US$-
Foreign expert                    14,000              -               14,000
Travel                             1,500             200               1,700
Subsistence                          -             3,500               3,500
Counterpart staff                    -             1,200               1,200
Materials and supplies                200            200                 400
Total                        15.700           5,100              20,800
Financing
4.08      The cost as detailed above would be financed as follows:
Amount
Source                                                   US$
IDA Credit
-  For direct foreign exchange cost                      15,700
-  For subsistence payments to foreign exDert             3,500
Sub-total                                           19,200
Bolivian Government
- Contribution in kind (i.e., staff included
in present budget)                                   1,200
-  Additional cost directly related to program              400
Sub-total                                            1,600
Total Financing                                     20,800



ANNEX 6
Page 13
E. Summary of Total Costs and Financing of the Technical Assistance Program
5.01          As detailed in the above paragraphs, the cost are as follows:
Costs
Program                                          Foreign      Local     Total
US$
1. Technical assistance to Ministry
of Mines and Metallurgy                    261,900      108,450   370,350
2.  Review of mining tax structure                42,500       21,000    63,500
3. Preparation of Exploration Fund                15,700        5,100 /1 20,800
Total                                        320,100      134,550   454,650
5.02          Financing of the program would be as follows:
Government
From Existing New Budget
Program Source                  IDA Credit             Budget       Allocations
US$
1. Technical assistance
Ministry of Mining
and Metallurgy             284,850                 56,800        28,700
2. Review of mining tax
structure                   47,900                 14,100         1,500
3. Preparation of Explo-
ration Fund                 19,200                  1,200           400
Total                        351,950                  72,100       30,600
1/ Includes US$31,850 to be disbursed in foreign currency out of the IDA
credit which largely covers the import component of the local costs.






ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA -- A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Market
Part I
Antimony - A Brief Market Review
Part II
Tin - A Brief Market Review
Part III
Tungsten - A Brief Market Review






ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
THE MARKET
A.   Introduction
The medium size miners importantly contribute to Bolivia's exports
of antimony, copper, lead, tin and tungsten but contribute little to produc-
tion of bismuth, silver, zinc, gold and other minerals. Furthermore, the
subprojects to be financed under the First Mining Credit Project are expected
to increase Bolivia's exports of antimony, tin and tungsten significantly but
very little for the other minerals. The expected increases in terms of total
world supply are as follows:
Increase as a Percentage
Mineral                                of 1972 World Supply
Antimony                                      3%
Tin                                           1%
Tungsten                                      1%
A brief market evaluation of each of these minerals is presented in parts 1,
2 and 3, of this Annex. For the remaining minerals the inncrease is less than
0.01% of the 1972 world supply; thus the marketing implications are of minor
importance.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
PART I
ANTIMONY - A BRIEF MARKET REVIEW
A.   Uses
1.01      The major use of antimony is as a metal as an alloying constituent
for the production of antimonial lead for storage batteries, bearing metal
alloys and power and communication cable covering.  Other uses as a metal
include: printing metal, solder and ammunition. An increasingly important
usage is in the oxide form for flame proofing of textiles, and plastics, and
as a pigment in paints. Antimony is also used in the manufacture of glass
and ceramics.
B.   Supply
2.01      Antimony is produced in about 25 countries.  The predominant sources
are South Africa, Bolivia, Mainland China, USSR and Mexico in this order which
together account for nearly 80% of total world production (Table 1). While
being highly erratic the overall production has shown an average annual growth
of 1.3% since 1965, with production from Mainland China showing a decrease over
this period while all other producers demonstrated small increases. The sup-
ply position has in the past tended to be unstable particularly with the pe-
riodic withdrawal of Mainland China's production from the free market. Con-
tinuing depletion of high grade ore in Mexico, Bolivia and South Africa is a
problem, necessitating adjustments in smelting practices and increase in pro-
duction costs, and is accentuated by the heavy dependence on the low cost out-
put from Mainland China, which contains half of the known reserves of antimony
ore. Nevertheless, the ore reserves are sufficient for more than 50 years of
production at present growth rates and productive capacity can be increased
to match steadily increasing demand requirements.
2.02      The supply of secondary antimony is a major factor in supply, ac-
counting for 55-60% of U.S. consumption, but is not as important in other
consumer areas.
C.   Demand
3.01      The average growth rate of free world consumption of primary anti-
mony from 1955 to 1972 is about 1.7% annually. However, demand for antimony
fluctuates widely with large increases during periods of military buildups
(i.e., retardant paints and textiles, bearing metals and battery grids) and
often declines with cessation of war activity.
3.02      Antimony will continue to have a specialized consumption pattern
that does not necessarily conform to general economic patterns but rather to
specific factors associated with the technological aspects of its use. Anti-
mony has no properties that make it indispensible but it has technological



ANNEX 7
Page 3
advantages in many areas of application. Periods of short supply in the past,
caused by abruptly expanded military requirements, have encouraged substitu-
tion as have periods of withdrawal of Chinese antimony from the world market.
The consuming industry will continue to be faced with problems of maintaining
technological as well as economic advantages in applications of antimony in
competition with other metals and organic synthetics. Therefore, any major
long-term price increases are unlikely and increase in demand for primary
antimony is expected to be restricted to between 1-1/2 to 2% per annum.
D.   Supply/Demand Balance and Prices
4.01      Antimony is known as a "cyclic performer" in the market because of
its price behavior. The price for American R.M.N. brand 99.5 percent metal
in the New York market, which had remained unchanged at 45.75 cents per pound
for almost five years (1965-1969), shot up to an average of 57.57 cents in
1969 and to a peak of 178 cents in April 1970. However, consumer resistance
developed quickly and by the end of 1970 the price had dropped to 98 cents
per pound. Prices continued to decline in 1971 and returned to their average
1969 level of about 57 cents by late 1971. The level has been maintained
since with periodic increases in late 1972/early 1973 to 60-70 cents. At the
sante time the 60% ore price fell from US$13.8-US$18.7/metric tons (cif) in
January to US$7-8/ton in December 1971, and remained at this level through
most of 1972, then rose back to US$11-14/metric ton in June 1973.
4.02      As these developments suggest, the world demand/supply situation
for antimony was greatly unbalanced at the beginning of 1970; demand exceeded
supply in all major consuming countries. An unprecedented shortage of anti-
mony was created when Mainland China withdrew from the market, and the GSA
issued no stock releases during the year. Nevertheless, the world returned
to a more normal state by the end of 1970 as consumers curtailed purchasing
and reduced inventories in expectation of low prices. Some substitution by
alternate materials took place, and Mainland China began again to participate
in the market. The high ore price stimulated interest in low-grade antimony
deposits throughout the world and thus broadened the potential supply base.
4.03      At present demand is reasonably well balanced by supply and in the
absence of a major war or a withdrawal of Mainland China from the market this
balance is expected to persist.
E.   The Bolivian Antimony Industry
5.01      Since 1960, Bolivia has shown a consistent rise in production of
antimony averaging 7.7% per annum and now accounts for almost 20% of world
production. The principal producer Empresa Minera Unificada SA (EMUSA) ac-
counts for 35 to 40% of this with the remainder of the production being from
numerous small operations, the largest of which is approximately 15% the size
of EMUSA. There are estimated to be about 300 small mining groups producing



ALNNEX 7
Page 4
antimony. Antimony mineralization in Bolivia is fairly widespread and al-
though economic deposits are scattered and difficult to develop, the prospects
for further increases in productive capacity are encouraging. Antimony
accounts for 5-6% of Bolivia's mineral export earnings.
5.02      With the exception of EMUSA and a few other relatively large pro-
ducers most of the mines are worked by rudimentary methods. The grade of
the ore mined is estimated to be 5-10% metal. Despite the fact that bene-
ficiation methods are primitive except for the larger producers, Bolivia pro-
duces a good quality of 60% concentrate with only minor amounts of objection-
able impurities. These concentrates are mainly sent to US for smelting al-
though sales to Japan are gaining importance. Bolivia has prepared plans for
establishing an antimony shelter within the country, and has held discussions
with both Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia on such installations, but apart from
a small shelter used by EMUSA, no other smelting capacity is available.
Table 1
World Production of Primary Antimony
(Content of Antimony contained in Ore in Metric tons)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971 /1
Mine Production               ---------       (000 metric tons) ---------------
World Total                   60.6   6.14   57.8   61.5   66.4   66.4   65.7
Of which:
South Africa, Rep. of         12.6   11.4   12.4   16.8   18.3   17.1   14.4
Mainland China (e)            15.0   15.0   12.0   11.8   11.8   11.8   11.9
Bolivia                        8.8   10.7   11.3   11.2   13.2   11.5   12.4
U.S.S.R. (e)                   6.2    6.3    6.4    6.5    6.6    6.7    6.8
Mexico /2                      4.5    4.4    3.7    3.5    3.2    4.5    4.9
All Other                     13.5   14.5   11.9   11.7   13.3   14.8   15.3
/1   Preliminary.
/2   Content of antimonial lead.
(e) Estimated.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
PART II
TIN - A BRIEF MARKET REVIEW
A.   International Tin Agreements
1.01      Tin plays a comparatively modest role in international trade, with
sales of the order of US$400 million per annum over the past decade. The in-
ternational tin market differs importantly from other mineral markets in that
it has a long history of producer and consumer cooperation.
1.02      The International Tin Council (ITC), with its seat in London was
formed in 1956 and, representing most of the producer and consumer countries 1/,
has the responsibility of administering an International Tin Agreement (ITA).
The ITA is in reality a series of agreements of four-year duration (the fourth
agreement was put into effect July 1, 1970). The objective of these agree-
ments is to prevent excessive price fluctuations and help maintain a supply
and demand balance. Under each ITA a price range is established by a con-
sensus of all consumer and producer countries, and ITC through a "buffer
stock" operation and "export quotas" maintains the tin price within this
range. In the past this arrangement has been very successful in supporting
the "floor" price in periods of oversupply but less so in maintaining the
"ceiling" price in periods of shortages.
B.   Demand
2.01      In sharp contrast to the rapid advance of other metal markets, pro-
ducers of tin have been faced with practically stagnant demand for consumption.
Over the past 20 years consumption has remained virtually level in the USA and
declined in the UK, but for the rest of the non-communist world has increased
at a rate of about 4% per year. Japan recorded the fastest growth of tin con-
sumption averaging an annual rate of about 7% over the period. While the con-
sumption of tin metal grew at a much faster rate in the developing than in the
developed areas, the latter still account for 90% of total world 2/ consump-
tion.
2.02      Tinplate is by far the most important end use of tin, accounting
for some 45% of the primary metal consumption, followed by solder with 20%,
bronze and brass with 8% and white metal, babbit and antifriction metal with
7%. In each category tin has faced a serious threat of substitution and econ-
omizing of tin usage, with the result that tin consumption has not increased
commensurate with the growth in the demand for the end products. This situa-
tion has made the future outlook for tin uncertain.
1/   The USA is the only major consumer no: a member of ITC, and Mainland
China and Brazil are two important producers not members of ITC.
2/   Non-Communist world unless noted otherwise.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
2.03      Consumption of tin in tinplate is expected to decline in the USA.
but to increase elsewhere so that the overall world demand will remain stable.
Consumption of primary tin metal for solder, tinning, bronze and brass is ex-
pected to show moderate increases throughout the seventies, while use in babbit
and white metal bearings is expected to decline in the face of substitution.
However, this decline should be more than countered by increased use in making
organotin compounds for PVC plastics, antifouling paints, etc., and the devel-
opment of new uses such as agriculture chemicals, metal alloying, and tin ad-
ditions to cast iron engine blocks. Tin consumption in the non-communist
world is expected to reach 180-195,000 TPY by 1980, some 7-20,000 EPY above
the current consumption level of 173,000 TPY, implying an average annual rate
of growth of between 0.5-1.5%. This compares with a growth rate of 1.4% over
the period 1956-71, with a marked slowdown over the past five years. The Com-
munist block switched from being a net exporter of tin to a net importer in
the mid-sixties and has now reached a level of imports which is expected to
be maintained or show marginal increases throughout the seventies, raising
the demand for tin in the non-communist world to between 195,000 and 215,000
TPY by 1980.
C.   Sppices
3.01      After a supply shortage during 1958-67, the supply gap was closed
and there were small surpluses during 1968-69 from which time a reasonable
suppply-demand balance has been maintained. After a period of high prices
in 1964-65, the industry's capacity expanded with supply increasing at an
annual average rate of 3.7% from 1964 to 1972, with a slowdown to 1.7% for
the later 3 years of this period. Supply continued to grow during 1972 while
at the same time demand halted, requiring ITC to impose quotas for the first
part of 1973. This has resulted in delays in plans to increase capacity but
supply is expected to continue to expand throughout the seventies, particu-
larly with the present high prices which will create further surpluses requir-
ing continuation and periodic application of export quotas to 1980. On the
other hand, taking into account the depletion of many of the traditional
production areas, the cost structure of the industry and the close control
exercised by ITC, it is unlikely that an excessive surplus situation will
develop.
3.02      Prices increased through the late 1950's, early 1960's from
US$0.95/lb in 1956 to US$1.78/lb in 1965, then declined to US$1.48/lb in
1968 following the supply surplus situation. Since then the price has rallied
averaging US$1.76/lb in 1972, and rising to more than US$2.00/lb in June
1973 even in the face of a supply surplus situation. Given the expected
future supply-demand situation it is expected that the price will fluctuate
between the middle and lower price ranges of the ITA agreements throughout
the seventies or between US$1.70 - US$2.00/lb.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
D.   Bolivian Tin Production
4.01      Tin mining is crucial to the Bolivian economy, providing one-half
(more than US$100 million) of the country's export earnings. Bolivia, the
second most important producer of tin (after Malaysia) produces 15-16% of
the free world's output. However, Bolivia's land-locked location and topo-
graphy and nature of the deposits all compare unfavorably with other pro-
ducers. Most workable deposits occur in underground veins of generally low
grade and difficult access. The industry has been obliged to build roads,
air strips, social facilities, power plants and subsidize food and other goods
for the workers - costs which competitor mines in other countries have
escaped.
4.02      These factors along with high recovery losses resulting from the
general poor state of repair of the mining and beneficiating facilities,
the lack of close process control, the complex nature of the ores, high
freight charges, and low grade of the concentrates produced, have contributed
to make Bolivia the highest cost producer of tin in the world. COMIBOL,
which produces approximately 20,000 TPY of tin-in-concentrates (two-thirds
of Bolivia's output), currently delivers tin to the market at costs only
marginally less than the current floor price of the ITA. Many of COMIBOL's
mines operate at heavy losses even at current prices. To improve the situation,
COMIBOL has embarked upon an ambitious program to rationalize and improve the
efficiency of its operations.
4.03      The private sector, made up of medium size and small mines accounting
for one-third of Bolivia's output, has costs generally lower than those of
C02IIBOL but high relative to other countries. Some private mines operate at
little or no profit with the current prices while others show substantial
margins at present.
4.04      The expected increase in Bolivia's tin exports, accounted for by
the medium size miners and to be financed under the First Mining Credit,
would account for 1% of the world supply (over 2 years) or one-half of the
projected world increase in demand. This is expected to meet with market
resistance, particularly if the export quotas remain in effect, and there
may be justified replacement of some of the less efficient operations. In
conclusion, there is a calculated marketing risk involved with the tin
projects.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
PART III
TUNGSTEN - A BRIEF MARKET REVIEW
A.   Uses
1.01      Carbides account for almost 50% of tungsten consumption.  Carbides
are used for cutting tool tips, snow tire studs, ball pen points and other
wearing applications. High speed and other tool steels account for another
10%; wire for electric lamps, metal shapes for space and defense applications
for 15%; and high temperature alloys and powder metallurgy processes for
almost 15%. Tungsten is also used in heating elements, flame spraying and
plasma coatings, and in chemicals. Other promising areas are in hot and
cold forming steels.
B.   Demand
2.01      Annual consumption has been highly cyclic over the past 40 years
with peaks during war time periods. The demand for tungsten is very closely
linked to the levels of activity in the steel and machine tool industries,
which is in turn closely linked to the economic state of the industrialized
nations. U.S. is the major consumer in the free world accounting for 15-18%;
with U.S.S.R. consuming a similar amount. Europe accounts for a further 30%
with other major consumers being North Korea, Poland, and Czechoslavakia.
2.02      Statistics on the industry are incomplete and often inaccurate,
hence must be treated with caution. World consumption increased from 65
million lbs in 1966 to 83 million lbs in 1970 (an average annual rate of 5%)
but declined 5% in 1971 and further in 1972 with the U.S. halving its indus-
trial consumption from 16 to 8 million lbs: a result of the economic slowdown.
Demand has again regained its 1970 level and is expected to increase over the
next decade at a rate of 5-6% particularly with the expected 10% growth rate
in the use of sintered carbides. Substantial research is being conducted
by the industry and tungsten carbide is reaching into new fields. The risk
of substitution is low except under excessively high tungsten prices.
C.   Supply
3.01      World mine production increased from 63 million lbs in 1966 to
74 million lbs in 1970, but dropped to 70 million lbs in 1971 and 1972
indicating the effects of low ore price. Mainland China with more than 70%
of the world's tungsten reserves produces in the order of 18 million lbs/yr,
the U.S.S.R. the second largest producer 14 million lbs, and North Korea -5
million lbs. The communist countries account for more than 50% of world
production. In the non-communist countries the U.S. is the ilajor producer
with 8 million lbs followed by South Korea, Bolivia and Portugal. China's
exports are unpredictable and vary widely. They were practically nil to



ANNEX 7
Page 9
U.S.S.R., while exports to the West fell from a peak of 19,000 tons in 1967
to 5,000 tons in 1969. The U.S. Stockpile has in the past, and will in the
future, play a very important role in the market. In 1966 more than 3 years
of world demand were held by it; this has recently been reduced to 128 million
lbs or 1-1/2 years of world demand.  A minor but increasingly important factor
of supply is the recovery of tungsten scrap.
D.   Supply/Demand Balance and Price
4.01      For the past decade the consumption of the non-communist countries
has exceeded its own supply by a significant margin. The shortfall has been
met during the sixties from Mainland China and by the U.S. stockpile disposals
in the early seventies. Tungsten prices are subject to short-term fluctua-
tions. World prices (London) for tungsten concentrates averaged about $42.20
per short ton unit (s.t.u.) in the second half of the sixties, rose to $70 in
1970, but declined in the following two years to average about $35.40 in 1972.
There are signs of recovery since mid-1973 and tungsten was selling in the
region of $42.10 last October. U.S. stockpile sales decreased sharply from
their high level of 38 million lbs. in 1969 to zero in 1972. It is obvious,
however, that in the future, U.S. stockpile sales will have to be phased out
over a long period to avoid a slump in prices. On the other hand, the future
supply/demand position is difficult to predict because of unknown future ac-
tions of Mainland China. Increased production from mines in the non-communist
countries is not expected to be substantial. Future prices are expected to
remain at the current level in the range of $42 per s.t.u.
E.   The Bolivian Tungsten Industry
5.01      Bolivian production of tungsten increased from 2-1/2 million lbs
in 1960 to 5 million lbs (or 7% of world mine production) in 1972; an average
annual growth rate of 6%. Exports of tungsten concentrates account for 7%
of Bolivia's mineral export earnings.
5.02      The Chojlla mine, owned by International Mining Co., is the country's
largest producer accounting for 50% of the total Bolivian output. COMIBOL
also produces significant quantities of tungsten recovered as a by-product
of the tin operations. Other small quantities are recovered as a by-product
from the small and medium mines.
5.03      The projected increase resulting from projects under the Mining
Credit Project amounting to 1% of the world supply should readily find a
market with the rapidly expanding demand.






ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA - A MINING CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                     at End of Quarter
June 30, 1974                                         100,000
1974 - 1975
Sept. 30, 1974                                        500,000
Dec. 31, 1974                                       1,100,000
March 31, 1975                                      1,600,000
June  30, 1975                                      2,100,000
1975 - 1976
Sept. 30, 1975                                      2,600,000
Dec. 31, 1975                                       3,100,000
March 31, 1976                                      3,600,000
June 30, 1976                                       h ,200,000
1976 - 1977
Sept. 30, 1976                                      4,800,000
Dec. 31, 1976                                       5,10oo,0oo
March 31, 1977                                      5,900,000
June  30, 1977                                      6,200,000






IBRD-10160R
7W'                            -        -   :   g-       -       w        !   .                   <                                      DECEMBER 1973
S RA
BOLIVIA
/                        Q  QU~~~CN~SLA ~~OUI~~ (T~~N~5MiJTH, $~~~ ~  MAJOk PRIVATE MINES
2 CAAy  Tf)                       (D9  IASA V A, flN, 0QVDGE 
-  ~                             -  f -EN L LANMONYJ
_ w C    iR1 tT1N)                   INTERNATIONAL MINING CO ITUNG0TEN, TIN I
UNWIC    T                          SOUTH AMERICAN PKACERS L OOWI)
Q  SAN XOSRtLW1 N) COMWAAIA MNERADELSURSA.TtNJ
t2t   \   t   \N  &                >           ~~~~~~~~~~~~(1) MiRWA MATLE  -Z                                          t7
 COrOCOR MI  MAT 11U1 iE 3Z ISC3          ALTIPLANO
Li--|         ZONE OF VALLErS
.   f  R eooodo:,                                               _____X 30   Aso  ,  _   SECONDARY ROADS
DEPARTMENT SOL)NDARIVS
L}k.                                    ' !4 </    _ _ INRER14AT1QNAL EBOUNDARIES
{~~~~~~~~               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ":        f    ,    I'l I& So  , !
KILOETER
\ d}   B  E      N        I       ,  r                                     \ \             KlLo^4e:TK E
G  g   t\  O TRINIDAD                                                       A
/Wl%_P>w\) f6
C 0                                        A              T  A~~~
P-( G't.



