CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 455 BO
Project Agreement
(Mining Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
DATED JANUARY 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 455 BO
Project Agreement
(Mining Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
DATED JANUARY 18, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
INDUSTRIAL S.A. (hereinafter called BISA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million two hundred thousand dollars ($6,200,000),
on terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that BISA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BISA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Sub-Loans and Investments
Section 2.01. (a) BISA shall carry out Part A of the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations
and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 06213, the By-Laws
of BISA and the Statement of Policy.


﻿4
(b)   Without limitation on the generality of the provisions of paragraph
(a) hereinabove BISA (i) shall employ in its operations one qualified mining engineer
experienced in mining finance and one additional qualified financial analyst and
(ii) unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, shall charge
interest at a rate of not less than eleven and one-fourth per cent (11-1/4%) per
annum on the principal amount of any sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BISA    shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, BISA shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment by BISA of the amount of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be used for the investment and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BISA for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment by BISA to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in respect of each investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Association and BISA shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the Association of such sub-loan
or investment, or in case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Association
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
)f principal, interest and charges or approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
0


﻿5
(e)   Except as the Association and BISA shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
submitted to the Association on or before June 30, 1976.
Section 2.03. (a) BISA undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby BISA shall obtain,
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BISA,
including, in the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be
appropriate in the case of any such investment, the right of BISA to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
*         Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents, (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or BISA shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with BISA; and (vii) require the Investment
Enterprise to assume any risk of loss resulting from changes in the rate of exchange
between the currencies used in its operations relating to the Investment Project.
(b)   BISA shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interest of the Association and BISA, (ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿6
Section 2.04. BISA shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and investments.
Section 2.05. BISA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and any other agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of BISA by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. BISA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.06. If BISA establishes or acquires any subsidiary, BISA shall cause
such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of BISA hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.07. BISA shall notify the Association concerning any proposed
amendment to its By-laws or its Statement of Policy, and, before any such
amendment is made, afford the Association a reasonable opportunity for
consultation thereon.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BISA shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of BISA.
Section 3.02. BISA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BISA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 3.03. BISA shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of BISA which, in the judgment of the
Association, would adversely affect BISA's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and BISA, BISA shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BISA and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than six times the
consolidated capital and surplus of BISA and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by BISA or any subsidiary;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent that the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Bolivian Pesos debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by BISA for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d)   "consolidated debt of BISA and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of BISA and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by BISA to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to BISA or to any other subsidiary; and
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of BISA and subsidiaries" means the
aggregate of (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of BISA
and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of BISA in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in BISA or any other
subsidiary, and (ii) any loan to BISA or its subsidiaries which the Association shall
deem to be included in such consolidated capital and surplus for the purposes
of this Section.
Section 3.05. BISA shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies used in its operations.


﻿8
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BISA shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
3.04 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond BISA's
control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall
be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
ARTICLE IV
Consiltation and Information
Section 4.01. The Association and BISA shall cooperate fully to ensure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and BISA shall from time to time, at the request of either party exchange views
through their representatives with. regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of BISA and its subsidiaries, and any other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. BISA shall furnish to tile Association all such information as
it shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and financial
condition of BISA and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.03. The Association and BISA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, tile
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or by BISA of its obligations Under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.04. BISA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of BISA and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BISA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
!NDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿100
For BISA:
Banco Industrial S.A.
P.O. Box 1290
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
BISA
La Paz
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Colombia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
By /s / Juan Jose Loria
Authorized Representative


