-74-Ll
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 455 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mining Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 455 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mining Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 18, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BISA" means Banco Industrial S.A., a bank established under the
Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 06"13, of September 12, 1962, on industrial
banks and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BISA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be
entered into between the Borrower and BISA pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BISA to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement;


﻿4
(e)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BISA out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BISA
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BISA proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment,
(h)   "Bolivian Pesos" and "$B" mean the currency of the Borrower:
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(J)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BISA or by any one or more subsidiaries of BISA or by BISA and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(k)   "By-laws" means the Estatutos of BISA, dated March 30, 1973, as
amended to the date of this Agreement and as they may be further amended from
time to time;
(1)   "GEOBOL" means Servicio Geologico de Bolivia;
(n)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy approved by the Directors of BISA on December 20, 1973, as amended
to the date of this Agreement and as further amended from time to time; and
(n)   "Project" means the Project described in Section 3.01 hereinafter.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million two hundred thousand dollars ($6,200,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for amounts expended (or, if the Association shall so agree, for
expenditures required to be made) (i) by the Borrower or by GEOBOL to finance
the reasonable cost of experts' services, materials, supplies and equipment for Parts
B and C of the Project and (ii) under Part A of the Project by BISA under a
sub-loan or investment to finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested.
(b)   The   generality  of  the  provisions  of  paragraph   (a)  above
notwithstanding, no withdrawal shall be made:
(i)         on account of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of the Borrower:
00          unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
in excess of (A) the equivalent of S5,00t,000 for expenditures
by BISA under sub-loans or investments under Part A of the
Project, (B) the equivalent of $850,000 for expenditures on
account of goods and services required for Part B of the Project,
and (C) the equivalent of S350,000 for expenditures on account
of goods and services required for Part C of the Project, and
(iii)      in the case of sub-loans or investments by BISA under Part A
of the Project unless (A) the sub-loan or investment shall have
been approved by the Association, or (B) the sub-loan shall be
a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(c)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project
(other than for any of the first three Investment Projects submitted by BISA to
the Association in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement) in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which
shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $250,000 equivalent, when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit for any other project directly and materially related to such
Investment Project- and (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other
free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association.


﻿6
(d)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in Section 5.01(a) of the General Conditions,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 1984, and ending September 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on September 15, 1993, to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. BISA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with
respect to expenditures of BISA under sub-loans or investments under Part A of
the Project.
Section 2.09. GEOBOL is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to expenditures of GEOBOL for Part B of the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit;
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Credit is to assist the Borrower in financing
such development of mining facilities and resources in Bolivia as will contribute
to the economic and social development of the country. The Project consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:     The financing by BISA of specific mining development projects
through loans to and investments in productive mining
enterprises in Bolivia, in furtherance of the corporate purposes
of BISA;
Part B:     The carrying out by the Borrower, through GEOBOL, of a survey
of small mines in the Borrower's territories designed to take an
inventory of small mines, to select mines with the best potential
and to provide technical and exploration assistance to their
owners; and
Part C:     The carrying out by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Mining
and Metallurgy, of the following:
(A)   the strengthening of the planning, documentation and
supervision functions of the Ministry of Mining and
Metallurgy;
(B)   a study of the Borrower's taxation of the mining sector;
and
(C)   a study of the feasibility of establishing a mineral resources
exploration fund in Bolivia.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BISA, under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BISA under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, such portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association for Part A of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the


﻿8
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take and cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable BISA to perform all of its
obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose, included, but not limited to, such portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association for such
Parts of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation on the generality of the provisions set forth in
paragraph (a) hereinabove, in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(i)         employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(ii)        except as the Association shall otherwise agree, cause such goods
and services (other than services of consultants) as are required
for such Parts of the Project and are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be procured on the basis of
international competition requiring quotations from at least
three foreign countries, provided, however, that the Borrower
shall cause the diamond drills and the necessary accessories
therefor required for Part B of the Project to be procured on
the  basis of international competition     under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April
1972, as revised in October 1972;
(iii)       insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
for such Parts of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
0


﻿9
use or installation, provided that for any indemnity such
insurance shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(iv)        except as the Association ma,c otherwise agree, cause all goods
and services financed out of the' proceeds of the Credit for such
Parts of the Project to be uscd exclusively for such Parts of
the Project until their complezion:
(v)         furnish to the Association promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, work and
procurement schedules for such Parts of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(vi)        (A) maintain records adequate to record the progress of such
Parts of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
disbursed by the Association therefor, and disclose the use
thereof in such Parts of the Project, (B) without limitation upon
'                          the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, enable the
Association's representatives to examine such Parts of the
Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents, and (C) furnish to the
Association  all such   information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning such Parts of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so disbursed by the
Association and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.04. Effective no later than June 30, 1974, or sucl other date
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
promulgate a new Mining Code.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.0 1. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from    time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿0
10
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of the respective obligations of any party under this Agreement, the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations, and financial position of BISA and its subsidiaries and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower, through Banco Central de Bolivia, shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BISA and its subsidiaries.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by any party of its obligations under this Agreement,
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿*                                 11
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the Uontinuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BISA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or BISA shall have failed to perform    any of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BISA having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Borrower's Decreto Supreno
No. 06213, in the By-laws of BISA or in the Statement of Policy, which will
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Part A  of the Project or the
operations or financial condition of BISA;
(e)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of BISA;
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BISA, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of BISA's business or BISA's financial position or the efficiency
of BISA's management and personnel or the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
and
(g)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BISA will be able to perform its obligations u.der the Project
Agreement.


﻿12
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a), (b), (f) or (g) of Section 6.02
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and to BISA; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of said Section shall
Occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BISA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BISA have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   The mining engineer and the financial analyst referred to in Section
2.0 1(b) of the Project Agreement have been employed by BISA and have taken
up their duties; and
(d)   Additional subscriptions in the amount of $BI0,000,000 to BISA's
capital in form and substance satisfactory to the Association have been made
providing for additional capital in the amount of $B5,000,000 to be paid in no
later than December 31, 1974 and $B5,000,000 to be paid in no later than
December 31, 1975.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association;
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BISA and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BISA in accordance with its terms; and


﻿13
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BISA and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and BISA in accordance
with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date April 18, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFINANZAS
La Paz
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Edmundo Valencia Ibanez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement."
(2)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered as Section
6.02(h).
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit allocated by paragraph
(b)(ii)(A) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement to Part A
of the Project, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c)
after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(4)  The words "The Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(5)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.


