FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public the
fs   No. 304a-PAK
REPORT ON
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
PAKISTAN
February 20, 1974
Programs Department II
Asia Region
This report was prepared for offchil use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubbihe, quoted
or citod without 84& Group authoriation. The Bank Group does not ao6ept ponty for the
a1ccuracy or counplesema of the report.                               .



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 crore             -      10 million
1 maund             *      82.3 pounds
1 long ton                 2,240 pounds
1 metric ton        -      2,205 pounds
1 cubic foot per
second (ft3/sec)         0.028 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP      -  Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
Gibb      -  Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, London
GOP       =  Government of Pakistan
Kharif    -  Summer cropping season
HPO       -  Machinery Pool Organization
PDC       -  Planning & Development Consultants, Karachi
Rabi      -  Winter cropping season
TJV       -  Tarbela Joint Venture, contractors
T&TD      - Telegraph and Telephone Department
USAID     -  United Stages Agency for International Development
WAPDA     -  Water and Power Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



PAKISTAN
REPORT ON
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................              i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......................*................... .                1
II. BACKGROUND                              ..2
The Indus Basin.                                                       2
The 1973 Floods ........                                               3
General Effects of the Flood            .         .                   4
III.   THE EFFECT OF THE FLOOD ON THE ECONOMY...                                 6
Direct Losses Caused by the Flood .                  .                6
The Impact on the Economy                    .          .7
Effect on the Budget             ..                                    7
Effect on the Balance of Payments .                 .                 8
IV.   FLOOD DAMAGE AND REHABILITATION                .........                  9
Agricultural Production ..........................                     9
Food Losses.                                                         10
Agricultural Production Facilities   .               .11
Flood Protection, Irrigation, and Drainage Systems                    12
Power System   ..14
Transportation Systems    ..14
Telecommunications System.                                            15
Industrial Facilities    ..15
Housing and Public Buildings    .                .15
Educational Institutions.                                             16
Public Health   ..16
Water Supply ..                                                       16
V.  ASSISTANCE RECEIVED BY GOVERNMENT .17
VI. THE IDA CREDIT    ..18
Introduction   ..18
Description of the Credit    ..18
Organization and Supervision.                                        20
Conclusion ......................                                    21



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Composition of the Joint UN/IBRD Mission.
2.  Flood Hydrology and Dmage:
Table 1: Flood Peaks and Design Discharges at Barrages.
Table 2: Damaging Floods, 1924 - 1973.
Table 3: Estimated Value of Agricultural Flood Damage and Output
for four Main Crops, 1973/74
Table 4: Livestock Losses in Punjab and Sind.
Table 5: Estimated Quantities and Restoration Costs of Flood-
damaged Irrigation and Flood Protection Works.
Table 6: Extent of Flood Damage to Civil Works
3.   Contributions to Flood Relief by Country and Organization.
4.  Effect on the Econowy, and Cost Estimates:
Table 1: Estimated Value of Flood Damage to Capital Assets.
Table 2: Suunary of Consolidated Budgetary Accounts, 1973/74.
Table 3: Balance of Payments, 1972/73, and Projected, 1973/74.
Table 4:  Cost Estimates for Rstoration of Civil Works
System.
5.  Food Balance:
Table 1: Food Grain Balance Sheet (as at November 1973).
Table 2: Grain Imports on Comercial, Concessional or Aid
Terms already received or promised.
6. Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit.
7.  Repair of Flood Damage -  Estimated Quantities and Costs
8.  Organization, Administration and Technical Assistance
MAPS
1.  Storm of August 6-9, 1973
2.   Indus Basin:  Flood Patterns (1973)



PAKISTAN
REPORT ON
'LOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report describes the disastrous flood which struck the
Indus plains in Pakistan during August 1973, and the rehabilitation
program for which an IDA Credit of USS35 million is proposed.
ii.       The flood was the first of significant size in the Indus basin
since 1959. The long flood-free period contributed, in some degree, to
the severity of the damage which resulted. The relatively low flows of
recent years led to accumulations of silt in the river channels, and hence
to reductions in their capacities. The protection provided by the river
levees or 'bunds' had been correspondingly lessened. Bunds were
breached during the flood at many places in Punjab and, together with the
very heavy monsoon rains in the vicinity, caused widespread inundation.
The total damage inflicted was greater than that caused by any flood in the
Indus basin for the last eighty years. The diversion of flood water in
southern Punjab, however, reduced the flow in the lower Indus in Sind.
Consequently, although the bunds in Sind were strained to the limit, only
three breaches occurred and an even worse catastrophe was avoided.
iii.      About 10 million acres were inundated, of which 4 million were
under crops, and nearly ten thousand villages were flooded. Approximately
5 million people were affected and about 500 lost their lives. The major
physical damage (other than crop losses) was to water control works, the
transportation network, particularly the roads, as well as private dwellings
and public buildings. There was also some damage to the power and tele-
communications systems, and to industrial plants.
iv.       Reconstruction priorities are not necessarily linked to the
extent of physical losses. The damage to the railway system was statistically
not very great (US$3 million equivalent) but it could have deleterious effects
on the economy; for this reason, railway reconstruction was accorded the
highest priority. Similarly, repairs of the river bunds and canals (US$12
million equivalent) are not major items in the total damage bill, but it is
essential to carry them out in order to avoid serious flooding and deficiencies
in irrigation supplies during the next high flow season. On the other hand,
the value of dwelling houses destroyed is much greater and is estimated
at roughly US$90 million equivalent, but the full replacement of these
assets must depend on private initiative and labor and will take time.
v.        The destruction of agricultural crops forms much the greatest
part of the total losses due to the flood. The total value of the crops
destroyed, both standing and in storage, when valued at current prices, is



- ii -
estimated to be US$475 million equivalent, of which US$160 million represents
standing cotton and US$120 million the loss of grain in storage. However,
the rains which caused the flood also benefited crops in the areas not affected
by flooding. Large-scale aerial spraying of paddy rice with pesticides
was undertaken by USAID after the flood and, with the high rainfall, helped
to increase rice yields. As a result the net reduction in the output of uajor
crops from that of last year may be only US$150 million equivalent.
vi.       Some rough estimates have been made of the effect of the flood on
the budget and the balance of payments. The flood reduced the expected
revenue for the current year, largely because of reduced revenue from export
taxes, and increased the level of expenditures, mainly because of increased
subsidies on imported wheat and edible oils. The combined adverse effect
on the budget amounted to the equivalent of US$234 million.  The Government
of Pakistan reacted to the flood by imposing extra taxes which are expected
to result in additional revenue equivalent to about US$89 million, thus
reducing the adverse effect of the flood on the revenue to some US$145
million equivalent.
vii.      The flood will reduce exports and increase imports.  The
reduction in potential exports of raw cotton by about 100,000 tons is
valued at US$140 million. Exports of rice should be about US$40 million
greater as a result of the increased yields in the areas of paddy which
were not destroyed. Hence, the net loss of exports due to the flood will
probably be about US$100 million.
viii.     The increase in imports made necessary by the flood is less easy
to estimate. The best estimate of merchandise imports for 1973/74 is US$1,400
million, which is US$400 million more than the best pre-flood estimate.
Not all of this increment is attributable to the flood; the best estimate
of the increase due to the flood alone would be around US$200 million.
Hence, the total impact of the flood on the balance of payments, in the
form of reduced exports and increased imports, is likely to be in the order
of US$300 million.
ix.       It is fortunate for Pakistan that the flood came at a time when
the balance of payments was fairly strong and improving. Despite the flood,
it is expected that the trade deficit this year will be only US$300 million.
Including invisibles and debt service, the balance of payments deficit is
,!stimated at US$535 million. To meet this gap, the expected capital inflow,
including the foreign aid obtained in response to the flood, is likely to be
US$475 million, leaving a residual gap of US$60 million to be met from foreign
exchange reserves.
x.        The direct damage wrought by the floods and the effect of this
damage on the economy are the justification for the proposed IDA Credit.
One part of the Credit would be used to cover part of the cost of restoring
the river bunds, canals, drains and roads affected by the flood, and to
provide imported equipment and spare parts needed for the repair of flood
damage. The remainder of the Credit would be used to import selected



- iii -
industrial materials required to maintain output and economic growth. This
part of the Credit would mitigate the effects of the flood on the balance of
payments.
xi.       The repair of civil works would be carried out mainly by depart-
mental forces of the Provincial Governments of Punjab and Sind. They would
be supplemented by the international consortium of contractors for Tarbela
dam, TJV, uho would reconstruct bunds extensively damaged in Sind. The latter
works would be supervised by the Government's consultants, while these and
all other civil works eligible for disbursement would also be supervised by
consultants appointed by IDA. A coordinating group representing the central
ministries and provincial government departments concerned with flood
rehabilitation would be established to review the progress of the civil
works and to initiate measures necessary to complete then on schedule.






PAKISTAN
REPORT ON
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
;.01      In August 1973, there were serious floods in Pakistan which
caused extensive damage. Thg. Government immediately organized relief and
reconstructlon measures, and requested international assistance for
rehabilitation, On September 17, 1973, after Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali
Bhutto visited the United Nations, the Economic and Social Council
requested the Secretary-General to invite the UNDP and the specialized
agencies to provide all possible assistance to Pakistan. To this end, the
UN asked the Bank and other specialized agencies to collaborate with it in
a mission to survey the damage and to consider recommendations for assistance.
When the Bank received this request on September 21, it had already
decided, in consultation with the Pakistan authorities, to send a snall
mission to Pakistan under the direction of Mr. Bernard Chadenet, Vice-
President of the Bank. It was, therefore, agreed that the UN and the
Bank would collaborate in a joint mission under the joint direction of
Dr. Victor Umbricht, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and
of Mr. Chadenet, A list of the members of the joint mission is given in
Annex 1. This report is based on the findings of the Bank's staff on the
mission, compris:ing Messrs. C. M. Bolt and J. P. Upadhyay, assisted by
Messrs. W. H. Edwards (FAO) and M. E. Tadros of the Bank's Islamabad office,
and Mr. C. R. Dickenson (Bank).
1.02      The joint mission was in Pakistan in October for two and a half
weeks. It visited flood-affected areas in Punjab and Sind Provinces,
discussed the problems with local officials and villagers. By that time,
the areas had become veritable hives of activity. Work was proceeding
simultaneously on the repair of essential facilities such as canals,
railways, roads and bridges, the rehabilitation of buildings and the
preparation of the land for the winter crop. There was also ample evidence
that the flood had caused severe hardship for large numbers of people who
lost their homes, possesstons, crops and in some cases even their land.
All this deprivation and suffering cannot be adequately reflected in
statistics.
1.03      The joint mission held numerous discussions with officials of the
Central Government in Islamabad, the Punjab Government in Lahore and the
Sind Government in Karachi. The Pakistan authorities had done considerable
preparatory work and had nude an assessment of the damage and the rehabili-
tation and reconstruction requirements, which proved of great assistance
to the work of the mission.



-2-
1.04      This is the Bank report of the joint mission.  The UN report
was circulated to the Executive Directors on November 29, 1973 (Sec M 73-716).
The Bank's objectives were to estimate the overall impact of the flood, relying
to the greatest extent possible on the Government's assessments, to consider
the actions taken and planned to deal with the situation, to assess the
volume and kinds of external assistance required within that framework, and
to devise a proposal for Bank Group assistance. This report concentrates
on the overall effects of the floods on agricultural production, damage to
the irrigation, drainage and flood protection systems, to the transport,
power and telecommunications systems and to other public services. It also
assesses the overall damage to the Pakistan economy, and concludes with
a proposal for assistance in the form of a quick-disbursing IDA Credit of
US$35 million. More detailed information on the problems of housing,
education, public health, food nutrition, and drinking water facilities
can be found in the UN report.
II. BACKGROUND
The Indus Basin
2.01      The Indus river and its six main tributaries form one of the great
river systems of the world. About two-thirds of the basin is within Pakistan,
while the headwaters of the eastern Punjab tributaries, the Sutlej, Ravi,
Chenab and Jhelum, lie north of the Indian border as shown in Map 1. Flows
of the Indus and its tributaries usually reach their peaks in July or
August, fed by Himalayan snow-melt and monsoon rainfall. Flows decline
rapidly in October towards their dry-season levels, which eontinue until
about February. The upper Indus and its eastern tributaries flow through
the Province of Punjab. Below their confluence, the lower Indus flows
through Sind Province to the Arabian Sea.
2.02      In Pakistan, about half the annual discharge of the rivers is
diverted into one of the world's largest irrigation canal systems, covering
about 33 million acres (13 million ha). Two major storage dams, designed
to impound part of the high summer flows for release in the dry season, are
included in the system. One is at Mangla on the Jhelum river, and the other,
due to be completed by 1975, is at Tarbela on the Indus. Surplus water can
be transferred through large link canals, flowing across the country from
the western to the eastern rivers of Punjab, to replace flows diverted from
the rivers by India under the provisions of the Indus Waters Agreement with
Pakistan. Thirteen barrages in Punjab, and three in Sind, control the
flows entering the canals at the diversion sites.
2.03      The flanks of barrages are protected against floods by flow-
directing embankments and earthen levees or "bunds." In Punjab, some
irrigated areas, as well as roads and railway lines near the river, are
also protected by a succession of discontinuous river bunds. In Sind,
where the Indus has aggraded to a higher level than the adjacent land, a



continuous system of bunds (constructed during the last 70 years) contains
the river on both banks within prescribed margins throughout the length of
the Province. Main roads and railways have been located within a short
distance of the river, relying on the bunds for protection.
The 1973 Floods
2.04      Between 1947 and 1959 a series of high floods occurred in Punjab
and Sind, but for the next 13 years the country was free of major floods.
As a result, the following adverse conditions developed:
(a) Because of the lack of flushing at high flows, the river channel
capacities were reduced by silt accumulation. As a result,
dangerously high river levels occurred at relatively low flood
discharges.
(b)  The capacities of drainage channels and structures for the
protection of canals and roads, were also gradually reduced
by encroachment of buildings into the floodways.
(c) Because of scarcity of departmental funds, the routine main-
tenance work required to preserve bunds in satisfactory
conditiot was not adequately carried out.
(d) Many of the younger Punjab and Sind Irrigation Department
field staff had not had the opportunity to acquire experience
in controlling floods, in maintaining or repairing bunds
under emergency conditions, or in operating the barrages at
very high discharges.
2.05      During July 1973, unusually heavy monsoon rains fell in Baluchistan,
causing local flash floods which led to high flows in the lower Indus.
These high flows were successfully contained and the Sind authorities,
alerted to the precarious state of the protection system, gained valuable
experience in emergency bund repair.
2.W16     Rainfall was also heavy during July in northern Punjab.  Lands
in the catchment areas of the eastern rivers were therefore in a soaked
condition in the first week in August when an intense cyclonic storm moved
westwards over India and became stationary, centered over Jammu between the
Chenab and Ravi rivers, as shown in Map 2. In the border area, between 20
and 30 inches of rain, about twice the annual average, fell between August
6 and 9, with a very high proportion of runoff. The natural drainage channels,
or "nalas", and the ditches designed to dispose of the runoff into the Ravi,
Chenab and Jhelum rivers ,quickly overflowed and inundation became widespread.
2.,7      The river flows increased very rapidly, and from August 6 through
7 the Chenab rose at the border from a low flood of 100,000 ft3/sec to
770,)00 ft3/sec (22,000 m3/sec), about 70% of the recorded maximum. Between
August 8 and 10 the discharge of the Ravi at the border rose from a low



-4-
flood 60,000 ft 3/sec to a peak of 230,uOO ft 3/sec (6,500 a 3/sec), about one-
third of tne recorded maximum. On the Jhelum, Mangla reservoir reduced the
flood discharge downstream of the dam to 200,000 ft3/sec, half the peak
inflow above the dam. While the peak flows in the Sutlej, upper Ravi,
Jhelum and upper Indus were not more than about half the maximum recorded
during the previous 80 years, the peaks were the highest ever recorded in
the upper Chenab, lower Ravi, Panjnad and the lower Indus, due mainly to
runoff inflowing from within Pakistan.
2.08      The river bunds were severely breached at ten locations in Punjab.
The confluence of the peak flows from the Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers
gave rise to dangerously high discharges at Panjnad barrage on August 16.
Extensive failures of bunds occurred upstream of Panjnad barrage, causing
widespread inundation and drainage extending over 500,000 acres between
the Panjnad barrage and the town of Rahimyar Khan. As a result of this
massive diversion, however, the maximum tributary flow into the lower Indus
was reduced, thus avoiding catastrophic damages in Sind. Nevertheless, on
the lower Indus, the flows exceeded 1,iO0,U00 ft3/sec (31,000 m3/sec) on
August 20, the highest peak in 50 years of record, and the discharge remained
at over 800,.j00 ft3/sec for about ten days. This level of discharge,
together with the accompanying wind and wave action, strained the vital bund
system in Sind to the limit. Although damaged for hundreds of miles, the
provincial bunds were only breached in three places, causing inundation of
200,000 acres. The flood surge passed to the sea during the first week of
September, leaving in its wake a trail of destruction which has not been
matched in severity or extent within the Indus basin during the last century.
Further hydrological details are given in Annex 2.
General Effects of the Flood
2.,,j9    The floods caused about 500 people to lose their lives, and directly
affected 4.8 million people; over 9,700 villages were flooded. The loss
of life, destruction and damage occurred mainly in the riverain areas and
wherever river bunds failed or had to be deliberately breached. Intense
rainfall over the Punjab, however, also gave rise to flooding in areas
between the rivers, and caused much damage in some towns, particularly
Lyallpur. An overview of the damage and restoration activities is given in
the following paragraphs; further details are given in Chapter IV and
Annex 2.
2.10      Agricultural damage.  Of the 10 million acres inundated, 4 million
acres were under crops, and hundreds of thousands of farmers suffered
heavily. Of the 5 million acres under cotton, about 1 million acres were
destroyed, resulting in a total net loss of about 600,')00 bales, valued at
US$160 million. Despite the destruction of 400,)00 acres of paddy, the
favorable water conditions outside the damaged areas and corrective
programs such as the large-scale aerial spraying of pesticides by US AID
helped to counter-balance the losses in rice production in the country as
a whole. About 150,000 acres of sugarcane, over 600,000 acres of fodder,
and 100,000 acres of the maize crop were destroyed. However, these losses
will probably be offset by the above-average yields resulting from the
additional soil moisture in the remaining cropped areas. More than 50,000



-5-
head of livestock were lost, including many draft bullocks. About 26,000
irrigation tubewells were damaged or destroyed, as were about 600,000 tons
of wheat stored on farms as subsistence stocks.
2.i1      Infrastructure.  Flood protection, drainage and irrigation works
and tubewells suffered considerable and widespread damage. Many thousands
of small irrigation channels were overrun and are being restored by
farmers before use in the rabi (winter) season, already started. It
is essential to reinstate hundreds of miles of canal and flood protection
embankments by July 1974, before the next kharif (summer) cropping and flood
season begins. The electric power transmission system was extensively,
thougn not seriously, damaged by the floods, and repairs were completed by
September 1973. The railway system was disrupted, but limited operation
was maintained. The main line was severed for about a month in southern
Punjab. Considerable damage was caused to the road network, particularly in
Punjab where 900 miles of roads were affected, and restoration may not be
completed until June 1974. The telecommunications links between the main
cities were interrupted for about a month. Damage to commercial concerns was
limited mainly to the Punjab, where about 800 industrial installations were
inundated. About 400,000 dwellings were destroyed and 500,000 were
damaged by the torrential rains or flood waters. Widespread damage was also
caused to public buildings, including about 7,700 schools and other educa-
tional institutions. Many public health facilities were also damaged,
including five hospitals and 39 urban water supply works.
2.12      Action Taken.  The sudden rise in the levels of rivers and drains
in Punjab gave very little time for precautionary measures, and immediate
public action was necessarily devoted mainly to rescue and evacuation of
population. This operation was carried through with conspicuous success.
In Sind, under the direction of the Irrigation Department, the Army and
local leadership,, enormous labor forces were rapidly mobilized to prevent
breaching of vital bunds. This collective effort, in which Central and
Provincial Government Ministers, senior officials, high-ranking officers
and many Army units as well as thousands of villagers took part, was
remarkably successful. After the flood ,the affected communities spontaneously
started to restore housing and essential facilities. Government authorities
immediately put in hand temporary repairs to the canals irrigating rice and
other kharif crops. Within a month, irrigation supplies were resumed to
most of these areas, and most of the Government tubewells were also rapidly
repaired. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) restored the
electric power supply to most areas within a few days.  Railway services
between Karachi and the North were partially maintained by promptly opening
a new branch line on the western bank of the Indus. US AID swiftly provided
aircraft to transport fuel and essential cargo from Karachi to the north
and emergency repairs were quickly carried out to close breaches in railway
lines and main roads. Telecommunications between major cities were partly
restored after about a month. About 250 government tractors were made
available to replace losses of draft animals, and interest-free loans were
being granted on a large scale to affected farmers for repairing tubewells
and purchasing replacement seeds, fercilizer, and bullocks.



-6-
2.13      Relief Aid.  Timely external assistance was contributed by about
50 donor governments, by the UN system and by international voluntary agencies,
and totalled about US$44 million in financial donations and material aid.
Most of this aid, especially the large quantities of drugs and medicines,
is being expeditiously dispatched, distributed, and used in the flood-affected
areas. This assistance is described in more detail in Chapter V, and a list
of contributors and their donations is given in Annex 3.
III. THE EFFECT OF THE FLOOD ON THE ECONOMY
Direct Losses Caused by the Flood
3.01      The inmediate effect of the flood was to damage or destrqy
capital assets. -These assets were of various kinds. There was damage
to the economic infrastructure including the irrigation system and the
public services such as the railways, the power and telecommunications
systems and to the road network. There was also damage to directly produc-
tive assets in the industrial sector and in agriculture. Finally there
was some damage to public buildings and considerable damage to private
dwellings.
3.02      An estimate of the damage to capital assets is given in Annex 4,
Table 1. The total damage to economic infrastructure is estimated at nearly
US$38 million equivalent, of which the major components are on account of the
irrigation system (US$18 million) and the transport network (US$15.5 million).
The damage to public buildings was about US$9 million and that to private
dwellings has been roughly estimated at US$90 million equivalent.  The
damage to industrial plant was fairly modest at around US$5 million.
3.03      To calculate the effect of the flood on the agricultural sector
is more complicated, mainly for two reasons. The first is that the heavy
rains that caused the flood also increased the yields of rice, sugarcane
and cotton in the non-flooded areas, but to an extent which is difficult
to estimate. Secondly, some of the major crops affected by the flood,
particularly cotton and rice, are export crops whose value in the world
market is rising. While in one sense this means that the potential
earnings which were wiped out by the flood would have been all the greater,
it also means that the effect of the damage on the economy is mitigated.
3.04      Much the most important agricultural losses were those to standing
crops and to stored wheat. The destruction of 1 million acres of cotton
is valued at US$160 million at current world market prices (see para 4.02).
The other major standing crops were rice, sugarcane and maize, and for all
three the damage caused by the flood was more than offset by the increase
in output in other areas (see paras 4.03 to 4.05). For the four crops as
a whole the decline in the total value of output will probably be of the
order of Rs 150 crores 1/ (US$150 million). Another major loss was stored
1/   Rs 1 crore = Rs 10 million, = US$1 million approximately.  US$1 = Rs 9.901.



-7-
grain with a value of US$130 million at import prices (see para 4.07). Other
agricultural losses consist of damage to minor crops and losses of livestock
and farm implements, tubewells and equipment which together probably amount
to some Rs 45 crores (US$45 million).
The Impact on the Economy
3.05      The effect of the damage to capital assets caused by the flood
will be a reduction in the output of the economy. This will be partly the
direct result of the damage such as the crop losses and the reduction in
-adustrial output due to damage to industrial plant and partly indirect,
as the shortages caused by the flood and the reductions in output and
income work their way through the economy. Resources which might have
been devoted to investment must be directed to reconstruction. In theory,
it would be possible to estimate the reduction in the GNP over a period of
a year or two, from what it would have been had there been no flood.
However, even if reliable estimates of what might have happened could even-
tually be made, it is too early to make the attempt. Instead, some calcula-
tions have been made of the probable consequences for the budget and the
balance of payments using the best available pre-flood estimates as a basis
for comparison. These effects are not, of course, additional losses to those
already described; they are their economic consequences.
Effect on the Budget
3.06      The Federal budget for 1973/74 presented in June 1973 was expected
to result in a deficit of Rs 99 crores. The consolidated budget (Federal,
Provincial and autonomous government agencies), however, projected a
residual deficit (after external assistance) of Rs 110 crores (see Annex 4).
3.07      The total loss of revenue due to the floods, largely a reduction
in revenues from export duties on cotton, is estimated at Rs 145 crores
and the increase in expenditure, largely increased subsidies for imported
wheat and edible oil, is expected to be Rs 89 crores. The expenditure
estimates do not include overall rehabilitation and reconstruction requirements
of some Rs 50 crores which are expected to be met within the original budget
estimates of the annual development plan by curtailing some development
schemes. The combined adverse effect on the 1973/74 budget due to the floods
will therefore be Rs 234 crores (Rs 145 crores in loss of revenue and Rs 89
crores in additional expenditure).
3.08      In order to minimize the budget deficit after the floods and to
restrain inflation, the Government imposed additional taxes, mainly customs
and excise duties and sales taxes, in September 1973. These are expected
to produce additional revenue of Rs 89 crores. With this additional
revenue and after accommodating all the Rs 50 crores needed for rehabilita-
tion and reconstruction within the existing annual development plan, the
net flood impact on the budget thus amounts to Rs 145 crores (Rs 234
crores - Rs 89 crores).



3.09      To arrive at the final post-flood budget, other changes in revenue
and expenditure which are independent of the flood must be taken into account.
They are as follows:
(i)  additional revenue of Rs 189 crores, mainly from export
duties, and the increased revenue from state trading due
to increases in international prices of export commodities
and other revenues from pre-flood taxes; and
(ii) additional net expenditure of Rs 47 crores, due to increases
in salaries, wages and subsidies.
The resulting flood-independent net revenue increase comes to Rs 142
crores, which is offset by flood-related requirements of Rs 154 crores,
leaving an increase in the overall financing gap of Rs 12 crores.
3.10      The changes described above, both those arising from the flood
and those independent of it, may be summarized as follows:
Rs Crores/US$ Million.
Total effect on 1973/74
budget (145 + 89)                                   -234
Revenue from flood-related tax
measures                                              80
Deficit due to flood                          -154
Additional flood-independent
revenue                                              189
Additional flood-independent
expenditures                                        - 47
Increase in residual deficit                  - 12
The increase in the residual deficit of Es 12 crores brings this deficit
to Rs 468 crores instead of the Rs 456 crores expected before the flood
(see Annex 4, Table 2).  External assistance available to the budget is
expected to be Rs 355 crores (as against the Rs 346 crores originally
forecast), leaving a residual deficit of Rs 113 crores.
Effect on the Balance of Payments
3.11      In 1972/73, Pakistan had a trade surplus of US$20 million and a
balance of payments surplus of US$164 million after allowing for external
aid; this was the first year the balance of payments had been in surplus
since 1950/51. The estimates for the 1973/74 balance of payments made
before the flood projected a trade deficit of US$100 million and a small
balance of payments surplus of US$10 million. However, it is now clear
that these estimates were too pessimistic, mainly because they under-
estimated the current high prices of the major export crops.



-9-
3.12      Because of the flood, exports will be lower and imports higher
then they would have been. The reduction in potential exports is wholly
on account of the reduction in raw cotton exports (see para 4.02), valued
at US$140 million. As against this, exports of rice should be about US$40
million greater (see para 4.03). Hence, the loss of exports due to the
flood will probably be about US$100 million.
3.13      The increase in imports made necessary by the flood is less
easy to estimate. Because of reduced output of cottonseed oil (see para 4.02),
imports of some 600,000 tons of edible oils valued at US$20 million, will be
required. There will also be an increase in imports of many kinds of
equipment and materials to replace items damaged by the flood and to take
the place of lost domestic production. The best estimate of merchandise
imports for 1973/74 is $1,400 million, which is $400 million more than
the best pre-flood estimate. However, probably not all of this $400 million
is attributable to the flood; the best estimate of the increase due to the
flood alone would be around $200 million. Hence, the total impact of the
flood on the balance of payments, in the form of reduced exports and increased
imports combined, is likely to be in the order of $300 million.
3.14      It is therefore, fortunate for Pakistan that the flood came at
a time when its merchandise trade would otherwise have been in balance.
Despite the flood, it is expected that the trade deficit this year will
be only $300 million. Including invisibles and debt service, the balance
of payments deficit is estimated at $535 million. To meet this gap,
the expected capital inflow, including the foreign aid obtained in response
to the flood, is likely to be $475 million, leaving a residual gap of
$60 million to be met from foreign exchange reserves.
IV. FLOOD DAMAGE AND REHABILITATION
Agricultural Production
4.01      General.  Of the four million acres of kharif crops which were
affected by flooding, more than two million acres were completely destroyed.
Despite the devastation suffered by farmers whose cotton, rice, sugarcane,
and maize crops were lost, country-wide production of the latter three crops
will benefit from the high yields achieved or anticipated in the unaffected
areas, as a result of favorable moisture conditions and large-scale aerial
spraying of paddy rice with pesticides. In the case of cotton, the heavy
losses may be partly mitigated by slightly increased yields in the undamaged
areas due to the above-average rainfall. Estimates of losses and gains in
production are shown in Annex 2. After taking compensatory effects into
account, the flood may have reduced the production of all four crops by
about Rs 1,100 million (US$110 million) in value.
4.02      Cotton.  More than one million acres of standing cotton (20% of the
crop) were destroyed. Although the extra moisture should be beneficial in un-
affected areas, the crop will be late and it is doubtful whether yields will



- 10 -
be substantially increased. If the same high yields of 1971-72 are achieved,
the losses would be about 105,000 tons of lint valued at Rs 1,400 million
(US$140 million), and 30,000 tons of cottonseed oil, valued at Rs 200
million (US$20 million).
4.03      Rice.  For the country as a whole, the destruction of over 400,000 ac
of paddy, with an estimated value of Rs 1,100 milion, was compensated by
better yields in undamaged areas. The highest priority was given to the
repair of damaged canals supplying rice-growing areas and, wherever
possible, supplementary irrigation water was allocated. The above-average
yields, both in Punjab and Sind, resulted mostly from additional water
supplies. They may also have been significantly boosted by large-scale
aerial application of pesticides financed by US AID. The national production
of rice is expected to be 2.73 million tons, an increase of about 80,000
tons over pre-flood estimates and valued at Rs 370 million (US$37 million).
4.04      Sugarcane.  Although about 150,000 ac were destroyed by flooding,
with an estimated value of Rs 260 million, sugarcane yields increased by
about 15% to over 17 tons/ac, because of the additional water supplied to
the crop, which usually receives insufficient irrigation in Pakistan. The
country-wide cane production is expected to increase slightly by about
75,000 tons, valued at Rs 90 million (US$9 million), to 22.75 million tons.
4.05      Maize.  Out of 700,000 ac of the maize crop in Punjab, 95,000 ac
were destroyed; this represents a loss of about 48,000 tons of grain, used
for feed, food, and industry valued at Rs 30 million (US$3 million). In
the North West Frontier Province the 800,000-ac maize crops is prospering
because of the heavy rains. The overall production of maize in Pakistan is
now estimated at 750,000 tons, an increase of 50,000 tons over the 1972/73
crop, and valued at Rs 31 million (US$3.1 million).
4.06      Other Crops.  About 670,000 ac under fodder crops were damaged
in Punjab and Sind, with an estimated value of Rs 170 million (US$17 mil-
lion). In Punjab, the loss of other crops covering about 440,000 ac was
valued at Rs 80 million (US$8 million). In Sind, an area of about 30,000 ac
under coarse grain was damaged, and 3,200 ac of banana plantations were
destroyed, having a total value of Rs 40 million (US$4 million).
Food Losses
4.07      The most serious destruction of food stocks by the flood was the
loss of cereals, mainly wheat, from subsistence and seed stores of farmers
and small traders. While the quantities are particularly difficult to
establish, the best available estimates range from 590,000 to 630,000 tons,
averaging about 620,000 tons. As shown in the Foodgrain Balance Sheet in
Annex 5 the overall wheat deficit for the year is 1.2 million tons. About
930,000 tons is being imported on commercial, concessional or aid terms,
leaving a net quantity of 270,000 tons which is a directly flood-related
loss, and which is needed to feed 4.8 million people during the period up to
May 1974, when the new harvest will become available for consumption.



- 11 -
World Food Program (WFP) and bilateral sources have committed 70,000 tons,
and the UN is seeking aid in cash or kind to provide the balance of
200,000 tons.
4.08      The Government's estimate of the overall deficit of vegetable
oil in 1973/74 is 175,000 tons, of which 30,000 tons is attributable to
the floods (see para 4.02). The basic requirement for the population in
the flooded areas is 20,000 tons, which the UN is seeking from international
sources, as stated in Chapter X of their report. The sugar requirements for
the fLood-affected population is about 23 ,00 tons, which can be met from
zhe present national production, provided that sugar rationing is continued.
In Chapter X of its report the UN recommends that 6,000 tons of fish protein
concentrates powder should be imported to enrich the staple diet of flour.
The USA has been providing protein-rich food (WSB) for distribution at an
annual level of about 2,500 tons, and it is anticipated that this supply
will continue. A more complete picture of the food requirements will be
provided by the two nutritional assessment teams formed by the Ministry of
Health, under the advice and guidance of WHO, to assess malnutrition arising
from the flood.
Agricultural Production Facilities
4.09      Livestock.  About 54,000 head of livestock including cattle,
buffalos, sheep and goats (see Annex 2), were drowned by the flood, with
an estimated value of Rs 20 million (US$2 million). Of this total,
representing 0.2% of the livestock in the country, some 7,000 were bullocks,
and consequently about 45,000 ac of farmland was temporarily deprived of
animal draft power. Interest-free loans are being made to farmers by the
GOP to replace the bullocks lost.
4.10      Tractors.  No tractors were lost in the floods.  Farmers and
Government are however determined that as much land as possible should be
cultivated for wheat during the current rabi season, to compensate for flood
losses. Since draft power for cultivation was a constraint in affected
areas, Government decided as an emergency measure to take over most of the
newly imported tractors destined for the private sector, and to allocate
them to the Provincial authorities to expedite cultivation of flood affected
lands. Approximately 500 tractors were distributed to the Agricultural
Engineering Departments, and about 200 are in use for cultivation. The
Provincial Governments intend that these tractors will be auctioned to
private farmers after the wheat crop is sown. To increase the flood
rehabilitation efforts and efficiency of Government and private tractor
operations, supplies of some implements (such as rabi cultivators and
threshers), and especially imported spare parts, need to be augmented and
expedited.
4.11      Agricultural Inputs.  Seed losses-were widespread and were related
to the destruction of cereals stored on farms and by small traders. The
shortages of both traditional and improved wheat seed varieties are
particularly acute in areas where kharif crops were destroyed and in which
all-out efforts are being made to replace the devastated acreage with
an additional 1 million acres of wheat in the current rabi season. Large



- 12 -
tracts of land have been prepared for sowing, but farmers reported that
suitable seed was difficult to obtain. Appeals for seed from foreign sources
by MOP and the UNDP having been unsuccessful, seed was drawn from food stocks
and ..istributed. Fertilizer losses had not been so seriousf but current
demand has been affected by the increased price, and supplies are inadequate
in Punjab, where distribution is being provided through nationalized outlets.
Farm Credit, for purchasing seed and fertilizer especially, has been
increased through government emergency (Tacavi) loans, the Cooperatives and
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), and will be issued
in kind where available (see Annex' 7). Prospects for the larger rabi
production anticipated will depend- on the satisfactory distribution of farm
inputs to meet the higher demand, and on the draft power available for
harvesting and threshing the wheat'crop.
Flood Protection, Irrigation, and Drainage Systems
4.12      The total cost of restoring these systems will be about Rs 180
million (US$18 million), and the elements of the damage are described below.
The proposed IDA Credit would assist in the financing of this work.
4.13      Barrages, canal headworks, and flood bunds.  Although six barrages
had to pass peak flows exceeding: their safe mazimutn discharges, no major
structural damage was inflicted.  Protective stonework was swept away from
several barrages, and at Panjnad the canal head regulator was so badly
damaged that although reconstructi'oh wa's started in October, full canal
control will not be restored until June 1974.  High bunds on the flanks
of four barrages were heavily breached, resulting in massive inundation
of irrigated areas, while extensi*& datMage was inflicted at several other
barrage bunds.  Protective river bunds weTre severely damaged and breached
along the Chenab, Ravi, and PanjhnAd rivers in Punjab. In Sind, the river
bund system along both sides of the Indbs was considerably eroded for
several hundred miles, although breaches occurred Yn only three reaches, at
Sukkur, Moro and near Tatta.  About 480 million ft  (14 million m3) of
earthwork will have to be restored in flood bunds, at a cost of about Rs 90
million (US$9 million).
4.14      Link canals and canal systems'.  As a result of torrential local
rainfall, drainage cross-flow caused considerable damage to two major link
canals in Punjab, while multiple breaching and damage of a third link was
caused by the failure of a bund above Balloki barrage. Extensive damage
was caused to structures and canal banks in ten major canal systems in
Punjab, particularly the Panjnad and Rangpur canals, while six others
suffered lesser damage as a result of breaching of river bunds and extremely
heavy local run-off after intense rainfall. In the Panjnad and Abbasia
canal commands alone, about 540,000 irrigable acres were inundated, com-
prising 37% of their culcurable command areas. In Sind, three major canal
systems were seriously breached due to failure of river bunds, and about
200,000 ac were inundated. Restoration of canals will require reconstruction
of about 330 million ft3 of earthwork, at a cost of about Rs 60 million
(US$6 million).



- 13 -
4.15      Drainage Systems.  Major drains were extensively damaged in con-
sequence of the intense storm over northern Punjab, and damage was aggravated
by exceptionally heavy drainage run-off inflowing across the Indian
border from the main storm centers. Very heavy rainfall in Punjab Province
caused drainage overflow and inundation in the Lahore and Sargodha regions,
and particularly in the town of Lyallpur. In Sind, the Larkana drainage
system, an on-going WAPDA project, was severely damaged following breaching
of the river bund downstream of Sukkur. About 60 million ft3 of earth-
work is required for the restoration of drains, at a cost of about Rs 15
million (US$1.5 million).
4.16      Restoration works.  Replacement of stonework protection at barrage
sites will be completed during the low river flow period January through
May 1974 at a cost of about Rs 20 million. Immediately after the flood,
according to GOP estimates about 870 million ft3 (25 million m3) of earthwork
in bunds, drains and canals needed to be restored. Failure to complete this
work within the next six months would entail major losses in irrigated crop
production and considerable risk of extensive inundation and damage during
the next period of high river flows, likely to start in July 1974.
Approximately 270 million ft3 of earthwork have already been restored.
About 80% of the remaining earthwork might be repaired by Government
Department forces within the available construction time, using all the
manual and donkey labor obtainable and the available light earthmoving
equipment. To make good the shortfall of about 120 million ft3, governmental
earthmoving capacity must be supplemented from the only existing alternative
source, which is heavy equipment that will be surplus to construction
requirements at Tarbela Dam site. The Government of Sind has therefore
negotiated an agreement for reconstruction of flood bunds in Sind, with
Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV), the main contractors for Tarbela Dam.
4.17      Tubewells.  Out of a total of over 7,000 public tubewells, about
1,250 were put out of service. More than 22,000 (or over 20%) of the
privately-owned tubewells were damaged or destroyed. Several hundred
private tubewells have been silted up and many will have to be redrilled.
Over 12,000 of the flooded tubewells wert fitted with diesel engines; about
half that number were damaged and require refurbishing at an estimated
cost of Rs 15 million. Of the Punjab Irrigation Department's tubewells,
560 were damaged by the flood although only 20 remain unserviceable.
Nearly 620 tubewells operated by WAPDA were damaged, but all except about
10 have been restored. Practically all the damaged public tubewells are
expected to be in service in January 1974, when irrigation demand is usually
rising. The reinstatement cost of the public tubewells was about Rs 8
million. The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and the
commercial banks are granting loans for repairs to private tubewells with
a 12-month interest-free period; the interest due to the ADBP is guaranteed
by the GOP. The proposed IDA Credit would assist the financing of
imported drilling equipment and materials for restoring tubewells.



- 14 -
Power System
4.18      Damage to the electrical transmission and distribution systems
was extensive though not serious, and the national grid continued to
operate normally. Thirty grid stations and 125 transmission towers
were damaged in Punjab, and throughout the country about 500 miles of
distribution lines and 200 transformers were damaged, affecting supplies
to about 90,000 consumer connections. Interruptions in power supply in
heavily flooded localities were limited to a few days except in Rahimyar
Khan district, where most supplies were resumed within a month. The power
system has been fully restored throughout the flood-affected areas with
the exception of some minor distribution lines to tubewells in the riverain
areas, and in parts of the Rahimyar Khan district which are still flooded.
The cost of restoration of flood-damaged components was estimated to be
about Rs 15 million (US$1.5 million). The Canadian Government has made a
C$ 1 million bilateral credit for procurement of replacegngt electrical
equipment and materials (see Annex 3).
Transportation Systems
4.19      Railways.  Mainly due to the failure of river bunds, the main
line between Karachi and the northern Provinces was breached in 70 places,
aggregating 2-1/2 miles in length.  There were 190 breaches in other sections
of the rail system and, including eroded lengths, more than 25 miles of
track were damaged; 21 bridges wese demolished,, while 8 stations were
inundated. By putting into serviee a newly-constructed line along the.
right bank of the Indus, about 1QZ of the normal traffic capacity was
maintained while the main line was-closed for about a month in the vicinity
of Rahimyar Khan.  The railway authorities resuned freight services very ex-
peditiously. All of the railway sections in the country have been re-
opened to traffic, and movementsz are reported. to be 90% of normal capacity.
Full capacity running on the main and loop lines will not be possible until
all the bridges have been restored to previous standards. The main line
is expected to be operating normally by January 1974. The cost of restoring
damaged works, equipment and machinery for the railways is estimated to
have been Rs 30 million (US$.3 million). The Canadian Government has offered
a C$ 1 million bilateral credit for procurement of locomotives and spare
parts (see Annex 3).
4.20      Roads.  Damage to the national road system was severe and
affected more than 1,000 miles of road, of which over 900 miles were in
Punjab. The Pakistan National Highway was damaged in Sind, and was ex-
tensively breached in Punjab. The Grand Trunk Road between Lahore and
Rawalpindi was seriously breached near Wazirabad, but was quickly restored.
The Indus Highway on the right bank of the river was also extensively
damaged in Larkana District. The National Highway has been re-opened in
Punjab except for restrictions to limited traffic in Bahawalpur Division,
where breaches are still being restored; it has also been restored in Sind
except in the vicinity of Moro, where reconstruction work is still in
progress. District roads in several districts of Punjab are still only



- 15 -
partly restored, and are not yet open to traffic in the Khanpur-Rahimyar
Khan area, where flood water remains along some stretches. Due mainly
to equipment shortages, it is doubtful whether all district and minor roads
can be restored until about June 1974. The cost of restoring the road
system is estimated to be about Rs 83 million in Punjab, and Rs 29 million
in Sind, with a total cost of about Rs 112 million (US$11.2 million). The
proposed IDA Credit would assist in financing the reconstruction work.
Telecommunications System
4.21      The main telecommunications link between Karachi, Lahore and
.slamabad was interrupted for about a month as a result of serious damage
to about 62 miles of the coaxial cable system at embankments breaches.
Sixty repeater huts and their equipment were damaged, 12 of them being
completely submerged, causing major disruption of the system. The VHF
microwave station at Chiniot was flooded and about 2,000 miles of overhead
lines, six telephone exchanges and their local network cables were also
damaged. The complete break-down in communications had serious con-
sequences, especially on the trading community. Permanent repairs of
over-head telephone lines, coaxial cable and repeater huts, as well as to
some telephone exchanges, remain to be carried out. Replacement of damaged
equipment is also still in progress. The total cost of restoring the
system is estimated to be Rs 31 million (US$3.1 million), including
emergency stand-by equipment. If the importation of replacement equipment
is expedited, system could be fully restored by the Telephone and
Telegraph Department (T&TD) by June 1974.
Industrial Facilities
4.22      Damage to industrial concerns was relatively light and was limited
mainly to the Punjab, where 800 units (40% of those in the Province) were
inundated. Some of the textile mills in the towns of Shahdara, Lyallpur
and Jhang remain out of production, and sugar mills in Bahawalpur are also
still affected. The value of fixed assets, stocks, and materials lost is
estimated at about Rs 54 million (US$5.4 million). The cost of replacing
damaged electrical machinery, spare parts for repair and materials is
estimated at Rs 27 million (US$2.7 million).
Housing and Public Buildings
4.23      Preliminary estimates indicate that about 400,000 dwellings were
destroyed and 485,000 were damaged by the torrential rains or flood waters,
valued at about Rs 900 million (US$90 million). Occupants are repairing
their own houses, and the need for shelter in winter has resulted in rapid
rebuilding with whatever materials were available. Recognizing limitations
of time, tradition, and financial resources, the Government has decided upon
the following measures of assistance:



- 16 -
(a) An interest-free- loan fund- of R8 150 million by the House
Building Finance Corporation to give quick loans to house
owners in the flood.affected areas;
(b)  A Rs 51 million program has been specially drawn up by the
Government of Punjab. to provtde 1:,300 houses in six urban
centres affected by the flood&; and
(c) The Federal Forestry Dtprtment has been authorized to provide
timber for direct: sale: to affected home owners. in rural areas,
for house recornetuctAkrf.
4.24      Widespread damage was- alW-o caused -to pubilic buildings, including
about 7,700 schools and& other edudational insti-ttutions.. The reeomstruction
and re-equiping of public buildid'pq damaged- b.y the f-lood included railroad
stations, office building., hogpltali;, courts, etc., call for p,gblic
assistance and external a-id. The rehabili-tation'of coununity. buildings
offers an opportunity for internakdtnal and voluntary agencies. to make a
significant contribution' to re6onstiucetidof of such f&cilities,, and
Chapter IX of the UN repbrt' under}ines* this- aspect.
Educational InstitutUinw.
4.25      The repair and                 at,cohitbai4mo  da&    a=id deatroyed schools
by the communities invveW-d is receivtg' low pt1ot.ty-.- BudgAtary, provi ions
will ha-ve to be made byv the Prbfira&1' Go ernisents for reconstruction
of the schools in Punjab and Sindt at an estimated acot of Rs 70 million
(US$7 million).  The Ui re4portf ptaoposee in Ghate.r XX that the immediate
reconstruction of some 200 pri-nato schdooi nay be undetraken. for demonsCta-
tion purposes under a Joint UnitdL Nationf vo1untart ageniea pro.ZSOir&, at
an estimated cost of US$'2O,40O.
Public Health
4.26      Over 50 public health facilities were extensively danaged,
including two hospitals.  The GovernmenAt health services went into action
immediately after the floods- began to subside.  Although malaria has
reached epidemic propbrtions, the resulting direct mortolity is very low
because of the large scale distribution of chloroquine before, during and
after the flood.  Spraying and drug thberapy are considered the first
priority, and ought.to be available by eatly 1974 to enable malaria to
be controlled. Chapter XII,of the UN report appeals for.anti-malarial.
spray and drugs medicines, two field hospitals to restore proper medical
facilities, and utility vehicles for mobile medical teams.
Water Supply
4.27      The floods damaged 39 urban and:rural water supply works.  Repairs
to water supply and sewage disposal works have been undertaken.by local
resources, and most' of the repair work has already been completed at an



- 17 -
estimated cost of Rs 3 million. In Chapter XIII, the UN report appeals for
assistance in the installation of 100,000 handpumps for clean water supplies
in rural areas.
V. ASSISTANCE RECEIVED BY GOVERNMENT
5.01      Bilateral Aid.  From the onset of the floods in mid-August, 1973,
to the end of October, 1973, approximately US$60 million in cash and
material has been contributed to Pakistan from external Governments, from
the UN system, and from international voluntary agencies. Bilateral
assistance was received up to the end of October from 51 Governments,
which contributed over US$36.8 million in financial donations and material
aid, including medicines, drugs, food, and credit. Aid totalling UJS$6.5
million in value was received in the form of cereals and dried milk from
the European Economic Community, and in cash from the Diplomatic Corps in
Islamabad. Details are given in Annex 3. Most of this aid, especially the
large quantities of drugs and medicines received, is being used for flood
relief work and the Mission found that the distribution is being carried
out most satisfactorily by the Government authorities.
5.02      Amongst the aid offered to GOP, certain items are closely
related to the proposed IDA Credit. These include the Canadian Government's
contribution of bilateral credit for replacement electrical equipment
(C$ 1 million), and the renewed Canadian offer to finance railway locomotives
and spare parts (C$ 1 million) which has now been taken up by GOP, although
the details have not yet been worked out. Both of these Credits would
be complementary to the IDA Credit proposals (Chapter VI). USAID has
carried, out a detailed review of the GOP's requirements for spare parts
needed for earthmoving and related equipment previously supplied by US
companies to the Machinery Pool Organization (MPO) under USAID programs,
but presently not in service due to component shortages. USAID's survey
is being implemented with a view to US financing of the importation of spare
parts valued at about US$4 million, primarily for MPO equipment which is
urgently needed for flood restoration work. The IDA Credit would provide
for importation of spare parts for the unserviceable equipment which is not
of US origin.
5.03      Assistance from the United Nations and its Agencies.  As soon as
the flood situation became serious, the UNDP Resident Representative in
Pakistan contacted the Government authorities and assisted them in
mobilising and co-ordinating external aid. As a result the United Nations
agencies contributed over US$13 million, primarily in medicines, drugs
and food. Resources and personnel of United Nations agencies in Pakistan
(UNDP, UNICEF, WHO, WFP) were also immediately diverted to flood relief,
while overall co-ordination was provided by UNDRO/Geneva. The assistance
proposed to be provided by IDA is described in Chapter VI of this report.



- 18 -
5.04      Assistance from International Voluntary Organizations.  In
addition to the assistance for rehabilitation work from the United Nations
agencies and donor countries, aid of about US$2.9 million has already come
from international voluntary organizations listed in Annex 3 and including
the League of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, CARE, CARITAS,
the World Council of Churches, the Church Wotld Service, the Catholic
Relief Service, QXFAM, the Methodist Missionary Society and Corona Roma,
all of which have representatives working in Pakistan. Already these
voluntary organisations have done very valuable and useful work in
connection with the relief and rthabilitation of the flood affected people
by providing medicines, drugs, food, clothing, blankets, etc. In this
task, they have received the co-operation and assistatce of the Federal
and Provincial Governments.
VI. TM. IDA CREDIT
Introduction
6.01      The floods had both imtediate and longer term effects.  The
immediate effect was the destruction or damage to capita-l assets, and the
longer term effect arises from the ctonequenaes of this daaaga ot the economy,
the budget and the balanc-e of paeVtits.  To iiake an effective contributidn
towards assisting Pakistan in eopiAg with the cndtuenees of the flood,
foreign assistance should take both these effects into account.  The proposed
IDA Credit would do this.
Description of the Credit
6.02      The item directly related to flood damage whith would be financed
under the credit would be:
(a)  The restoration of the flood damaged irrigation, flood
protection, drainage and toad systems in the Punjab and
Sind (Annex 7). This w6rk would be carried out by the
Irrigation and Roads Departuents of the two provincial
governments. The total cost is estimated at US$19.8
million equivalent and the credit would cover 50 percent
of this amount.
(b)  The reconstruction of about 16 miles of damaged flood
protection bund, on the left bank of the Indus near
Moro in Sind, to be carried out by a mechanized task
force of the international contractors, Tarbela Joint
Venture (TJV), under contract with the Government of
Sind, at an estimated cost of about Rs 27 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$1.9 million;



- 19 -
(c) Assistance by consultants, for a technical review
of the flood prediction, warning and protection systems
in the Indus basin (estimated foreign exchange cost,
about US$0.2 million).
(d) Spare parts and implements for agricultural tractors and
for farm machinery and agricultural implements (US$2 million);
(e) Spare parts, replacement equipment and materials for
flood-damaged tubewells (US$0.7 million):
(f) Nine cLrilling rigs with their vehicles, equipment,
materials and spare parts, fir redrilling flood-damaged
tubewells (US$0.9 million);
(g) Spare parts for Government-owned construction machinery,
(US$0.3 million);
(h) Replacements for meteorological equipment, with associated
communications equipment and spare parts (US$0.1 million).
6.03      The items described above amount in total to US$16 million
equivalent. The remainder of the credit (apart from US$1 million
unallocated), amounting to US$18 million would be used for the purchase
of a wide range of imports substantially the same as those purchased under
the credits for industrial imports made to Pakistan in FY 1972 and FY 1973.
This part of the Credit would help to offset the deterioration in the
balance of payments resulting from the flood, described in Chapter III.
The counterpart in rupees of the foreign exchange disbursed under this
part of the Credit would accrue to the Government, and would serve
to strengthen the current budget. An amount of US$1 million would be
unallocated. Thus the Credit would serve to assist Pakistan to deal with
both the direct and the indirect consequences of the flood.
6.04      The consortium of Italian, French, German and Swiss firms
constructing Tarbela dam, Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV), is the only
commercial concern in Pakistan with sufficient capacity to carry out the
reconstruction of the Moro bund in Sind in the short time available before
the next monsoon. A contract for the hire and operation of their most
suitable surplus equipment has therefore been entered into between TJV and
the Government of Sind. The credit would be disbursed to cover the foreign
exchange cost of this contract. The remaining civil works would be
carried out by force account and the credit would cover 50 percent of the
total cost. This would involve some financing of local expenditure, pro-
bably of the order of US$5 to 6 million equivalent. The part of the credit
to be used for civil works would be relent to the Provincial Governments on
IDA terms.



- 20 -
6.05      Goods to be imported specifically for replacement of damaged
meteorological and construction equipment would be proprietary items for
existing installations and machinery. It would not be practicable for their
proct-rement to be subject to international competitive bidding, and most of
these items would be purchased from the manufacturers of the original equipment
by the government departments concerned. Purcbase of imported spare parts for
existing tractors, agricultural machinery and tubevells could likewise not be
subject to international competitive bidding, and would be handled by the
local private commercial agents.
6.06      Since proprietary types of drilling rigs are already in use
in the public and private sectors, and in view of the urgent need to import
additional rigs with vehicles, drilling equipment, spare parts and materials
for reinstating the private and public tubewells damaged or destroyed,
international competitive bidding would also be waived in this instance.
Contractors would be permitted to procure and import specialized equipment
of their choice after normal commercial quotations had been obtained.
6.07      The US$18 mllion of industrial imports would be predominantly
imported by private firms through normal commercial channels. :The Trading
Corporation of Pakistan (TCP), a state corporation, is the designated importer
of a limited number of items on which economies can be secured by importing
in bulk. The Government has agreed that goods procured by TCP out of the
proposed credit would be procured on the basis of international competition.
Disbursement of this part of the credit would be on the basis of reimburse-
ment for the c.i.f. cost of qualifying imports. The State Bank of Pakistan
would be responsible for collecting, through nominated banks, invoices,
evidence of shipment and evidence that the supplier has received payment.
Such evidence would be forwarded to the Bank in support of withdrawal
applications. The State Bank would also provide a certification in each
case that the goods had been supplied from member countries of the Bank or
from Switzerland, and that they had not been financed already by any bilateral
source or by another international development finance institution.
Organization and Supervision
6.08      To deal with the emergency situation caused by the flood, GOP
and the Provincial Governments of Punjab and Sind have allocated responsibili-
ties to their Departments as outlined in Annex 8. In addition, GOP established
.i Central Flood Committee in August 1973, under the chairmanship of the Minis-
ter of Finance, with the terms of reference given in Annex 7. The Committee
has important review, evaluation and policy formation functions relating to
the recent and future floods. There is also to be a coordinating group
representing the principal central government ministries and provincial
government departments concerned with flood rehabilitation, namely, the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development, the Ministry of Fuel, Power
and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Commerce and Industries and the
irrigation and Communications and Works Departments of the provinces of
Punjab and Sind. Thia group is to be responsible for reviewing construction
schedules and the progress achieved in implementation and initiating measures



- 21 -
necessary to complete the works on schedule. The group would review the
availability of spare parts and the rehabilitation of unserviceable machinery.
It would also review the availability of funds required by the central and
provincial government agencies for the completion of the works on schedule.
6.09      The GOP and the Government of Sind have engaged Planning and
Development Consultants, (PDC), of Karachi for the supervision of the bund
repairs to be carried out by TJV under contract. For the balance of civil
works, Provincial Governments' engineering departments will supervise their
own forces.
6.10      IDA intends to appoint Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (Gibb) to
act as its supervisory consultant for all the civil works to be carried out
by TJV and the Provincial Government forces. Gibb would carry out the
functions normally carried out by IDA supervision missions. They would
review the construction program and cost estimates prepared by the provincial
departments; prepare monthly progress reports; check TJV's payment
certificates and expentitures on the works; and would expedite applications
for disbursement under the credit. Gibb would attend meetings of the
Coordinating Group as observer.
Conclusion
6.11      The above proposals would form a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$35 million equivalent.






PAKTSTAN                            ANNEY 1
FTOOD REPAPRITTTATION PROGRAM CREDTT
TEADERS OF TTE TE fSSTON
Dr. Victor Umbricht,                                7Mr. Bernard Chadenet,
Special Representative of the                        Vice President, Organization
Secretary-General,                                  Planning and Personnne  Managaenent,
United Nations                                       Tnternational Bank for
Reconstruction and Dpvelopment
M E M B E R S
1.    IN1DP      -   Mr. Kur .r Jansson, Resident Representative, Islarabad
U/T7JNDP   -    r. CGeorge GTosss, TN Relief Co-ordinator, Tslanabad
2.    TBRD       -   Mr. Cecil M. Bolt, Asia Proiect Staff, Washington
-   Mr. Willia" H. Eiwards, FAn Agricultural Special]ist, Islanabad
-   Mr. Jagadi.-hP. ITpadhyay, Loan  Officer, Pakistan Division.
Washington
3.    FAO        -   Mr. Rorst 1.K. Geuting, UNDP Senior Agricultural Adviser and
TFAO Country Representative, Tslamabad
-   Mr. ,T. Albrecht, Agricultural Eronomist, Peshawar
4.    WFP        -   Mr. Er.ile Gy.T. Syts, WFP Senior Adviser, Islamabad
5.   wTO         -   Dr. Attaollah Tabibzadeh, Representative, Islarahad
-   Dr. P. Mashaal, WHO Malarialogist, Tslamabad
-   Dr. T.G. Causse, Medical Officer, Geneva
6.     NT CEF    -   Mr. P. Hanson, Ch;.ef, Asia Desk, New York
-   Mr. M. Assadi-Bai.ki, Deputy Representati-ve, Tslamabad
S E C R E T A R Y
- Mr. W. Pathirana, WFP Projeet Officer, Karachi
The Mission also had the benefit of the assistance of the followinc
speciali.st.s working in the TPRT) Resident Mission, TBRD Wash ngton, and in the UNMfl
Projects in TPakistan:
1.  Mr. JT.H. Collier, Pakistan Division, TBRD, Washington
2.  tzr. C.R. DIickenson, Public Untilities P-oliects Staff, TTBRD,
Washington
3.  Vr. Frank Towenstein, Asia Projects Staff, TP-RD, Wssh.ngton
1s. '1,r. T. Hans Pichler, Resident Representative.  BT;RD Office,
Tsl anabarl
5.  Mr. Mahfouz E. Tadros, Economist, TTRD Office, Tslarabad
6.  Mr. John W. Rohlin, Tndustrial Planner, Planning rommiss- on.
Tslamabad (ITNDO)
7. Mr. Jiri Prazak, Tndustrial Economist, Planning and
Development, Labore (UNTDO)
9.  Mr. .Kurt P.D. Windszus, Project MYanager, Telecomntunication
Staff College, Haripuir, Hazara (TTTT)
It was also advised by Mr. Torstrni S.T. Frisk. Chief Ad-riser r.f
STDA in PakiLstar.
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 2
Table 1
PAKISTAN
FLOOJ REHiABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
FLOOD PEAKS AND DESIGN DISCHARGES AT 13ARRAGil-'
Province, River    Design  1973 highest discharge  Previous highest Peak
and Barrage Site Discharge and date of occurrence ever recorded and year
-   Millions of cubic feet per second------
FUNJAB
Indus
Kalabagh         0.950      o.465 (August 13)         0.917  (1942)
Taunsa           1.000      0.422 (August 12)         0.512  (1959)
Jhelum
Rasul            0.850      0.270 (August 9)          0.875  (1959)
Chenab
Marala           1.100      0.770 (August 9)          1.100  (1957)
Khanki/               -     1.006 (August 10)         1.086  (1957)
Trimmu           o.650      0.660 (August 12)         0.943  (1959)
Panjnad /        0.700      0.810 (August 17)         0.651  (1960)
Ravi
Balluki          0.225      0.243 (August 12)         0.275  (1950)
Shahdara              -     0.180 (August 11)         0.542  (1955)
Sidhnai          0.150      0.210 (August 18)         0.175  (1955)
Sutlej
Sulemanki        0.325      0.170 (August 15)         0.610  (1955)
Islam            0.300      0.160 (August 19)         0.427  (1955)
SIND
Indus
Guddu              1.200      1.102 (August 20)         Built after 1959;
high flood passed
in 1973
Sukkur              0.900     1.120 (August 20)         1.098 (1958)
Kotri               0.875     00810 (,"ugust 30)        0.918 (1956)
1/  Source:  Plood Center, Lahore & Public IJlorks Department, Karachi.
2/ Includes a discharge of 150,000 cusecs through the breaches.
S/ Includes a discharge of 50,000 cusecs through the breaches
February 7, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PAKISTAN
FlOOD REHABIITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
YEARS OF DAIMAfING FIOODS 1922-1973
YEARS         RIVER IN FIOOD       DIS9HARGEE,
f B  sec
1924              Indus            6441,ooo
1928              Jhelum           601,000
Chenab          686,ooo
1929              Indus          1,000,000
Jhelum          760,000
Chenab          718,000
1931              Jhelum           355,000
1932              Chenab           332,000
1933              Chenab           366,000
1936              Ravi             107,000
1942              Chenab           302,000
Ravi            1330,000
1943              Ravi             101,000
1947              Ravi             225,000
Sutlej          425,ooo
1948              Jhelum           41l,000
Chenab          432,000
1950              Chenab           5141i,000
Ravi            193,000
Sutlej           1soo,ooo
1951              Sutlej           360,000
1953              Jhelum           311 ,000
Chenab          316,000
1954              Chenab           320,000
Ravi            141W,000
1955              Chenab           344,000
Ravi            542,000
Sutlej          687,000
1956              Jhelum           303,000
1957              Chenab         1 ,100,000
Ravi            1 88,000
1958              Indus            633,000
Jhelum          730,000
Chenab          478,000
Ravi            14o,000
1959              Jhelun           811 ,000
Chenab          871,000
Ravi            200,000
1960              Chenab           599,000
1961              Ravi             10,000
1962              Ravi             132,000
1973              Indus (lower) 1,120,000
Jhelum           270,000
Chenab        1 ,oo6,ooo
Ravi            243,000
February 7, 1974



PAKISTAN
FLOOD REHABITITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ESTIMATED AGRICULTURAL FlOOD DAIMAGE AND OUTPUT,
FOR FOUR MAIN CROPS, 1973/74
Crop Area                              Yields                                  Output
Crop and             Before    After    Totally        Before          Af'ter      Gain          Before    After       Gain or
Province             floods    floods   damaged        floods          floods                    floods    floods    loss (-)
Cotton:                                                                                          -------- Million tons---------
--------Million acres ------     ------Maunds 1/ per acre-------           ---and (Million bales 2/)----
Punjab                4.O4      3.11     0.93         12.1            13.5          1.4           0.60       0.51       -0.09
(3.38)    (2.90)    (-0.48)
Sind                  1.16      1.03     0.13         1LI.3           15 .0        0.7            0.20       0.19       -0.01
(1-15)    (1-07)    (-0.08)
TOTAL,                                                                                            OoRO         .70      -0.10
OR AVERAGE            5.20      4.h14     1.06        12.6            13.8          1.2           (it 53)    (3.97)    (-0.56)
Ri ce:
---------Million acres--9.--      ------- Th)ns per acre ----------      --------Milion tons---------
Punjab                1.99      1.57     0.h2          0.56            0.70         0.14          1.29      1.10      -0.19
Sind                  1.85      1.80     0.05          0.68            O.8q        0.17           1.26      1.53       0.27
North West Frontier  0.13       0.13        --         0.149           0.49           --         0.06       0.06         --
Paluchistan          0.10       0.10        __         0.37            0.37           --         0.04       0.0         __
TOTAL, OR AVERAGE    40         T7 3. W  0.1 7         0ti7            0.76         0.11          2.65      2.73 
Sugarcane:            --------Million acres -------    --------l'ons per acre ---------           ----     Million tons---------
Punjab                1.03      O.89      0.11t       14-56           17.18         2.62         15.00      15.29      0.29
Sind                   .22       .21     0.01         15.91           17.52         1.61          3.50       3.68      0.18
North West Frontier   .22         .22       --        15.91           17.23         1.32          3.50       3.79      0.29
TOTALI, OR AVERAGE    1 .47     1.32      0.15        14.97           17.2!         2.27         22.00      22T7        0.76
Maize:
--------Million acres -----      -------Tons per acre -----------           --------. I  ion tons------
Punjab                0.70      0.60      0.10         0.50            0.50           __          0.35       0.30      -0.50
North West Frontier  0.80       0.80        --         0.44            0.56         0.12          0.35       0.45       0.10
TOTAL, OR AVERAGE  1.4-  0 :m-   0.10    O 0                                         0.70 0T75  0
1/  Yield of seed cotton.  1 Maund = 82.3 pounds
2   1 bale (Pakistan) = 396 pounds, = 180 kg.  1 bale (U.S.A.) = L80 pounds, = 218 kg. Long ton -2240 pounds' 
February 7, 1974-U



PAKISTAN
FL!OOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDTT
LIVESTOCK LOSSES IN PUNJAB AND SIND
Category           P U N J A B                 S I N D
Number     as percent    Number     as percent      Total number   Price per      Value
lost       of total      lost       of total        lost           head,
number in                number in
Punjab                   affected area                  Rupees        Rs '000 's
(1)    ~(2)          (3)         (4)            (5)             (6)          (7)            (8)
Cattle       9,100        0.14        3,000            NA         12,100         500             6,050
Buffalo      9,000        0.15        2,800            NA         11,800          600            7,080
Sheep       16,000        0.25        2,5oo            NA         18,500          75             1,387
Goats        7,634        0.23        3,927            NA         11,561           75            6,021
TOTAL       1X,734        0.19        12,227         0.16         53,961                        20,538
February 7, 1974



ANNEX 9
Table 5
PAKTSTAN
'TOOD REYARTTTTATTON PROGTRAM CREDTT
Estirated Quantities; ard Restoration Cost,s of
flood-daTnaged Trrigation and '2od oProtec!tior Wtorks
Province
NortlFwe .-t
Tter                           Pa]-uchistan   Fronti er   PLM1,b  S4 nd  Total
Far-age stonework,
-i1lion cubic feet    (rm t3)                      _           _                6
Floc,d RTnds,
r-,^lion cubir' fet  P't)                        N/A         TV/A       ?27   2)LO    t177
Cqna1 r7hrnkrient, ,
rillion cubic feet    (TI ft3)                   N/A         N/A         311    1 8    3iq
Drain repairs,
million cubic feet    (M ft3)                    N/A         N/A          59      5     fl?
Total earthwork,
million cubic feet    (M ft3)                    N/A         N/A         607   263    870
-il)ion cubic yards   (  yd3)                    NI/A        N/A          23    10      32
Yt1llon cubic meterS  (pV Ti3)                  'N/A         N/A          17            25
Costs estiTnated by Governinents for
restnration of earthworks,
Rs inillion;                                     2.5         2.6          96   h17   1l18
Thibli'^ tiubewells and
pumps damaged, niumber                           N/A         M /A      1,1$O    ib 1,23C
Estimated cost to restore,
Rs rillion  (Rs 4)                               N/ A-YA                9-
Total restoration costs, Rs M                       2.5         2.6        105    q9   159
Ditto, TJUSMillion eTuivalent                       0.25        0.26      10.5   )!.9   15.9
Total costs estimated by TDA
including rcntingencies, US$ M                      0.3         0.3       12.0   5.b.     18
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 2
Table 6
Page I
PAKISTAN
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
EXTENT OF FLOOD DAMAGE TO CIVIL WORKS 1/
Earthwork           Stonework            Estimated
Name of Works               M cu ft              M cu ft             Cost, Rs M
Barrages
Punj ab:
Qadirabad             4.9                  0.8                 2.7
Khanki               19.2                  0.8                 3.5 (3.7)
Balloki              44.7 (19.3) -         0.9 (0.7)           1.6 (4.7)
Sidhnai              12.8 ( 5.2)           0.3 (0.5)           1.4
Trimmu                0.5 ( 8.0)           0.3                 0.5
Taunsa                0.5                  0.3                 0.5
Panjnad              80.0 (60.0)           0.5                14.0 (21.0)
1T27 (117.1)         3.9 (39 7          247.2 (34.5)
Sind:
Guddu                 7.0                  0.5                 2.0
Sukku.                                     1.0 +               4.0
Kotri                 2.0                  1.0                 1.5
9.0                 2.5                  7
Flood Bunds
Punjab:
Lahore Region        20.8                                      4.2
Sargodha Region      32.6                  _                   3.5
Multan Region        15.0 (47.2)           0.1                 0.8 (2.5)
Bahawalpur Region    20.0                  _                   3.0
8.1T (120.6)         0.1                1i7(1i3.2)
1/ Derived from Government estimates in "'Memorandum for the UN-IBRD Flood
*  Rehabilitation Mission to Pakistan," Planning Commission, GOP, October, 1973.
2/ Revised figures shown in parentheses.



ANNX 2
Table 6
Page 2
-2-
Earthwork           Stonework            Estimated
Nane of Works                M cu ft             M cu ft             Cost, Rs M
Sind:
Gu.du Region         60.0                                       7.0
Sukkur Region:
breaches          80.0                  -                   10.2
erosion           60.0                  2.5                  9.4
Kotri Region:
breaches           0.8                  -                    1.0
erosion           31.0                  0.9                  4.0 +
231.5                                    -317.6
Link Canals
Punjab:
MR  30.0                                  2.2 ( 3.3)
BRBD                 30.7 (44.6)           _h.2 ( 5.5)
RQ                    1.3                  1.8                  3.2 ( 3.4)
QB                    4.2                  0.3                  0.1
BS I                  1.4                  0.1                  1.6
BS II                 0.2                  0.1                  2.5 ( 2.6)
-7.  (8.)             2.3                13-9 (7-7)
Canals, branches and distributaries
Punjab:
Upper Chenab         21.3                                       1.5
Upper Thelwu           7.0                                      0.4
Lower Chenab          9.5                  -                    2.1
Rangpur              50.1                  0.2                  3.0
Haveli               10.2                  0.3                  0.8
Shujabad             10.3                  -                    0.8
DG Khan              12.8                  -                    0.7
Mtizaffargarh         2.0                  -                    0.1
Massna                1.0                  -                    0.1
Lower Bari Doab       2.6                  -                    0.1
Abbasia              15.0                                       1.4
Panjnad              70.0                  -                   12.0
Bahawal               6.0                  _                    1.0
Mailsi                0.7                                   )
Sadiqia               0.8                  -                )  0.1
Pakpattan             0.5                  _
Dipalpur              0.9                  -)



ANNEX 2
Table 6
Page 3
-3-
Earthwork            Stonework       Tubewells,       Estimated
Name of Works                M cu ft              M cu ft            No.           Cost, Rs M
Lower Jhelnum          8.0                                                  0 .5
BRBD                  13.9                                                   1.0
MR                    14.2                  _                               0.8
27T.                 -07                              2-6.
Sind:
Sukkur Region         10.0                  -                               4.0
Kotri Region           7.0                  -                                1.0
17.0                  -
Drainage Systems
Punjab:
Lahore Region         10.0                  -                                3.9
Sargodha Region       48.8                  -                               2.0
38                    _                               79
Sind:
Sukkur Region         15.0                  _                               6.0
15 X                 -                                i;.o
Tubewells (Public)
Punjab:
SCARP wells                                                   789           6.1 (5.1)
Irrigation Department
wells                                                      396            1.9 (0.6)
-   1,185        TO (T m
Sind:
Sukkur/Khairpur                                                40           2.0
1,225          10.0 (7.7)
Miscellaneous Irrigation Works
Baluchistan:          -                                       -2.5
-             2.6
3. 1
Totals:
Punjab               634.4                  6.8             1,185          89.9 (104.5)
Sind                272.8                   5.9                40          52.3
Baluchistan           -                     -                 -              2.5
NWF                                                           -              2.6___
907.2                 12.7            1,22           173 (161.9)
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FLOOD REHABTLTTATION PROGRAM CREDIT
Contributions to Flood Relief
by Country and Organization
A. COUNTRIES               ITEM                  QUANTITY               AMOUNT
CR VALUE       Pak. Rupees      US Dollars
AFGHANISTAN      1. Clothes             )                                     (Eouivalent)
2. Woollen blankets )
3. Fish Protein.      ) Afgs.2,000,000
4. Drugs              )
5. Cash (Red Crescent)
ALGERIA          1. Unspecified supplies
including 2 Tons
medicines                      20 Tons
ARGENTINA        1. Foodgrains (wheat,
corn, Sorghum).          5000-6000 Tons
AUSTRALIA        1. Anti-tetanous Serum           9,500 Doses
2. Tetanous Toxoid            250,000 Doses
3. Saline Drip                 20,000 Bags/Bottles
4. Dextrose                     1,000 Ampoules
5. Chloroquine                500,000 Tablets
6. Cholera Vaccine             60,000 Doses
7. Cholera Vaccine (Common-
wealth Serum Lab).         110,000 Doses
8. Powdered Milk                   12 Tons
9. Sulphaguanadine             90,000 Tablets
10. Cash (Red Cross)                                         $,   2,985.
11. Cash (Red Cross)                                         $   75,000.
12. Unspecified medicines
(Red Cross)                     40 Packages
BELGIUM          1. Cash (Red Cross)                                          $   12,397.
2. Dried Milk                       6 Tons
3. Nutribel                         3 Tons
h. Blankets                       5O0 Nos.
5. Cash                                                     $   7h,386.
BRITAIN          1. Cash                                                      $   13,157.
2. Cash (Red Cross)                                         $   19,737-
3. 10 Shallow draft boats with
motors
4. Bl-ankets (Red Cross)     150,000 -T Sterling
5. Complan
6. Drugs
7. Cash (Private)
8. Cash (Private)                                           $  355,621.
9. Medicines (Private)            36 Packages



ANNEX 3
Page 2
BUTGARIAA
1. Unspecified Supplies                      Rs.   20,000
CANADA           1. Wheat                   US$1,000,000.-
2. Cash (PM's Fund)                          Rs.    10,000
3. Cash for railway
reconstruction                                            $1,000 OOO0.
4. Cash for WAPDA
reconstruction                                            $1i,000,000.
5. Cash (Red Cross)                                          $   25,000.
6. Cash                                                      $   75,000.
7. Cash (Red Cross)                                          $   10,000.
8. Clothing (Red Cross)  IJS$   27,300.
CHTNA fPeople's Republic of)
1. Cash                                                      $  515,463.
2. Supplies               US$  515,463.
DENMARK        1. Cash                                                       $   18,000.
2. Cash (Red Cross)                                          $   18,000.
3. Clothing (Red Cross)   60 Packages
EGYPT            1. Sugar (Red Crescent)    4 Tons
2. Rice (Red Crescent)      4 Tons
3. Medical Supplies
(Unspecified)            3 Tons
FINLATD          1. Cash                                                       $   25,641.
FRANCE (Republic of)
1. Cash                                                      $   12,000.
2. Medicines (Unspecified)
)Fr. 150,000
3. Baby Food              )
4. Medicines (Red Cross)   70 Kilos
5. Cash (Private)                            Rs.      2,000
GrE?MANY (Federal Republic of)
1. Multivitamins
(Red Cross)              1.6 million
tablets
2. Boats a Motors RedCross)  4 Nos.
3. Blank-ets (Red Cross)    10,000 Nos.
4. Oyytetracycline          72,000 tablets
5. Chloramphenicol         200,000 tablets
6. liquid Glucose           13,600 bottles
7. Children Food            18.3 Tons
8. Tetanous Vaccine          1.7 Tons
9. Cholera Vaccine          40 Cases
10. Halazone                588,000 tablets
11. Dried SkimL Milk
(CARTTAS)                19 Tons
12. Penicillin Procaine      1,000 ampoules
13. Reverin                  4,000 ampoules



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(GERMANY (Federal Republic of)
14. Baby Food                18 Tons
15. TAL Vaccine             1/2 Tons
16. Milk Powder            1/2 Tons
17. Clothing (DDH)          332 bales
(20.5 Tons)
19. Clothing (Red Cross)    15 Tons
19, Tetagam Ampules          2,320   )
20. Paraxin (0.25g)          2,800   )
capsules                         )
21. Penicillin Procaine   )49,000   )
ampoules                         )
22. Reverin ampoules        21,000   )
23. Penicillin' units        3,000   )
24. Strepto-penicillin               )
ampoules                3,000   )
25. Medicines (Caritas) &
Milk Powder           DM 50,000
26. Resulfor. Tablets      100,000   )
27. Resochin Tablets    1,000,000   )
28. Chloroquine Ampoules    9,970   )
GERMANY (Democratic Republic of)
1. Medical supplies
(unspecified)                    )
2. Milk Powder                      )
3. Clothing                1 million Marks
4. Blankets                         )
GREECE           1. Unspecified Medicines
2. Blankets
3. Food for Children
4. Cholera Vaccine        300,000 cc.
5. Halazone Tablets        1.5 million
HOLY SEE         1. Cash (Corona Roma)                                       $   50,000.
2. Cash (Caritas Inter-
nationalis)                                              $   30,000.
INDONESIA (Republic of)
1. Cash                                                     $    5,263.
TRAN             l. Tents & Equipment          300
2. Blankets                 2,000
3. Powdered Milk            2,208 tins
4. Edible Oil                  10 Tons
5. Medicines                1,082 Kilos
6. Anti-Snake-bite Serum  20,000 units
7. Cash (Shahbanu Farah)                                    $   71,429.
8. Cash (Majlis - Red,
Lion & Sun Soc.)                                         $   19,134.
9 Cash (Private)                            Rs. 2,500,000



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(IRAN)          10.  SmalJoox Vaccine   1 million doses
(through Wi-)
11.  Gash (Private)                                           $   73,3h6
12. -Cash (Meena Bazar)                      Rs.2,500,000
13. Medicine                11 Tons
TTATY             1.  Drugs (Red Cross)    185 Kilos
Antibiotics
Antiseptics
Antipyretics
Vitamins
2.  Drugs (Red Cross)    232 Kilos
3.  Cash                                                     $    ?,ooo
4. Blankets (Red Cross)
5.  Clothing (Red Cross)3,280 Kilos
6.  Medicines (Caritas)   Tira 30,000,000
7.  Supplies (    "   )   TLira 30,000,000
8.  Cash (Private)                         Rs.   23,000
JAPAN            1.  Medicines, Powdered
Milk and 40,000
Blankets (Red Cross)   $4,000
2.  Cash (Private)                         Rs.   15,000
3. Unspecified medicines
(Pharmaceutical EXports
Association)          225 Kilos
4.  Cash (Private)                         Rs.   23,000
JORDAN           1.  Cash                                                      $   88,176
2.  Cash                                   Rs.  186,687
KENYA            1.  Cash (Citizens - Nairobi)                                 $   13,000
2.  Cash (Private)                         Rs.   200,000
3.  Clothing               32 Packages
4. Blankets                 3 Bales
5.  Unspecified Medicines 15 Packages
KOREA (Democratic Pe6ple's Republic of)
1.  Cash                                   Rs.   100,000
2.  Cash (Private)                                           $      285.72
KUWAIT           1.  Cash (Red Crescent)                                       $    3,000
2.  Cash                                                     $1,351,351
TEBANON           1.  Cash (Private)                         Rs.    1,000
TIBYA            1.  Cash (Private)                          Rs.   53,000
2.  Cash                                                     $  673,877
3.  Cash                                   Rs. 3,330,630
TJUXEMBOURG       1. Cash                                                      $    2,479



ANNEX 3
Page 5
MALAYSIA          1.  TAB Vaccine            50,000 Doses
2.  Cholera Vaccine      100,000 Doses
3.  Edible oil                 22 Tons
4.  Clothing (Private)          8 Packages
MALDIVES (Republic of)
1.  Cash                                                      $    2,631
MAURITTUS         1.  Cash                                                      $   13,157
NETHERTANDS       1.  Cash                                                      $    6,896
2.  Multivitamin Tablets  20,000 Guilders
3.  Wheat                    1,000 Tons
4.  Cash                                                      $  344,827
NEW ZEALAND       1.  Supplies           NZ $ 50,000
2.  Cash                                                      $   67,567
NORWAY            1.  Cash for supplies
(through UN Disaster
Relief Coordinator,
Geneva)                                                  $   41,806
POLAND            1.  Aircraft and Crew
for crop spraying
2.  Unspecified medical
supplies              $ 25,000
QATAR             1.  Cash                                                      $  500,000
2.  Unspecified medicines
and supplies
ROUMANIA          1.  Relief Supplies      Rs. 200,000
SAUDI ARABIA      1.  Cash                                                      $2,000,000
2.  Cash                                                      $  338,697
SINGAPORE         1.  Cholera Vaccine      200,000 Doses
2.  Typhoid Vaccine      30,000 Doses
SUMALIA           1.  Cash                                    Rs.   25,000
SPAIN             1.  Cash (Red Cross)                                          $   14,851
SUDAN             1.  Cash (Private)                          Rs.   13,000
SWEDEN            1.  Cash (Red Cross)                                          $  219,298
2.  Cash (to Red Cross)                                       $  219,298
3.  Wheat               S. Kr. 5,000,000
4.  Cash (Private)                         Rs. 1,500.00
SWITZERLAND       1.  Halazone             250,000 Tablets
2.  Tents                     400 Nos.
3.  22 Kw. Generators           2 Nos.
4. 10 Kw. Generators            5 Nos.
5.  Cash (in foreign
exchange)                        Rs.1 ,088,980



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(SWITZERLAND)    6.  Cash from the
Government of the                                      $   33,003
Province of Zurich
7.  Cash from the Red
Cross                                 Rs.  142,50O
8.  Cash (Private)                        Rs.  47,880
9. Halazone Tablets
(Red Cross)                 5 million
10. From the organization
Hilfswerkder Evangeli-
schen Kirchen der
Schweiz, assistance
worth                                 Rs. 570,000
SYRIA            1. UJnspecified medicines
THAILAND         1. Cholera Vaccine         300,000 Doses
2.  Cash (Private)                        Rs.    5,000.00
TURKEY           1.  Assorted Drugs
2.  Cash (Private)                        Rs.  36,ooo
3. Cash (Turco-Paki stan
Women's Association)                  Rs.    8,500
UNITED ARAB E4TRATES
1.  Cash                                                   $4,000,000
2. Cash (Enirate of Dubai)                Rs.5,000,000
USSR             1. Medicines (Red Cross
and Red Crescent)     100,000 Roubles
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1. Boats and Crews            14 Nos.
2. Helicopters                 6 Nos.
3. Disposable syringes
and needles           250,000
4. Tetanous Toxoid         15,000 Doses
5. Tetanous Toxoid        240,000 Doses
6. Wheat                  100,000 Tons
7. Pyrimethamine        1,200,000 Tablets
8.  Chloroquine        12,300,000 Tablets
9.  Chloroquine
Injectable            150,000 Ampoules
10. Pesticide spray &
equipment to spray
600,000 acres rice
& some sugarcane   $3,000,000
11. Vegetable seeds for
7,500 villages     $   40,000
12.  C 141 Aircraft to
airlift fuel from
Karachi to Lahore
and Rawalpindi              4 Nos.
13. Expert team re assessment emergency equipment needs to restore
communications between Karachi and Lahore.
14. Cash                                  Rs.1 ,000,000
15. Ten cc. vials anti-viper)
anti-cobra) Serum 800
16. Cash (Private)                         Rs.8,583,000
YTUGOSLAVIA      1. Unspecified supplies  $50,000
DIPLOMATIC CORPS 1.  Cash (Private)                        Rs.  10,400



ANNFfl 3
Page 7
B.. ORGANI ZATIONS
CARE           1. Multivitamin Tablets         9hb,000                         $   31,xp9
2. 1.ankets                      5,1 .0                        $   23,025
3. Riscuits (Cartons)            2,843                         $  176,651
h. Candy (Cartons)                  150                        $   15,187
5. Kaopectate (Cartons)            149                         $    5,902
6. Aralen & Donnagel (Doz.)          24                        $       886
7. Soup & Baby Food (Cartons)   1,000                          $    itN000
8. Sanitary Kits )
Medical Kits  )(Cartons)      5,675                         $  127,713
Water Drums )
9. Biscuits & Candy (Cartons)  10,500                          $  630,000
10. Cash                                                        $    5,000
11. Milk Powder (Pounds)          5,850                         $    2,050
12. Water Barrels  )                 670 Drums)
Sanitary Kits  )                331 Drums)                  $   20,000
Biscuits        )                 68 Ctns.)
CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES
1. Supplies                                                    $   10,000
"CHRISTIAN AID" 1. Anti-malarial drugs  )
(Red Cross     1,5,u0 i Sterling
Anti-tetanous Toxoids)
CWS             1. Cholera Vaccine              10,000 Doses
DIRECT RELIEF FOUNDATION
1. Supplies                                                    $    1,871
HELP-THE-AGED
1. Cash                                                        $   15,789
2. Blankets & Clothing (by ship)
TUTHERAN FEDERATION
1. Blankets                      5,000
"OXFAM"         1. TAB Serum                   200,000 Doses
2. Cholera Vaccine               20,000 Doses
3. Tetanus Anti-Toxin            20,000 Doses
4. Jet Tnjectors (porto-Jets)         6 Nos.
5. Pan Jet for BCG                    1 No.
6. Food Parcels                   2,000      Rs.   10,000
"SALVATION ARMY"
1. Cash                                                        $    13,157
"SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND"
1. Baby Food (12 Tons)         400 E Sterling
2. Medical supplies            500 E Sterling
SEVE TH DAY ADVENTISTS WELFARE SERVICE
1. Supplies                                                    $      2,000



ANNEX 3
(n. ORGANTIZAT:O1JS)                                                              Page 8
UNITED NATIONS FAMILY
1. Secretary General's Disaster
Relief Fhnd                                                               $   20,000
2. Cash for purchase of drugs and supplies -
Secretary General's Fund for War-displaced
Persons                                                                   $  ?50,000
which has been handed over to UNICEF for local
procurement of supplies ($.50,000) and external
procurement of supplies and edible oil. ($.200,000)
3. W.H.O. -    WHO's contribution is mainly through its existing
programmes which have been put on disaster relief
alert. The Malaria Eradication Programme has dis-
tributed 4 million choloroquine tablets since
February and in August has distributed an additional
4 million on an emergency footing. A further 2
million Choloroquine tablets have been sent by WHO.
UJnder the Smallpoy Eradication Programme, WHO has
donated 3,505,000 doses of smallpox vaccine.  WHO
has also provided. 50 water analysis kits through
UNDRO.
4. UNDP -      $ 1 million work of technical assistance over and
above the Country Programme.
M. UNiCEF
DPT Vaccine              500,000 Doses                    $     8,200
Polio Vaccine            500,000 Doses                    $    12,100
Syringes/needles           5,000                          $     4,600
WSB                    1,250,000 Tbs.                     $   150,000
Halazone Tablets       5,000,000                          $    12,600
.leeps (4 wheel-Drive)        75                          $   210,000
Drugs and dietary
supplements                1, 00 Kits                     $   198,500
6. UNITED NATTONS INFOR1MATION CENTRE TSLAMABAD
Cash (Private)!                          Rs. 460
7. W0RTLD FOOD PROGRAMME
Wheat                      9,543 Tons)
Sugar                        733 Tons)                    $1,686,000
Dried Skinmed Milk           500 Tons)
8. TUNITED NATIONS OFFICE, ISLAMABAD
Cash (Private)                           Rs.5,500
"WAR ON WANT"  1. Sulphaguanadine           500,000 Tablets
WORLD COUNCIL OF CHURCHES (American Chapter)
1. Smallpox Vaccine          10,000 Doses
February 7, 1974



A1\TN5 |
Table 1
PAKTSTAMJ
FLOOD REHARIT.TTATTON PROGRAM CREDIT
Estimated Value of the Damage to Capital Assets
Infrastructure                                          US $ Million
Equivalent
Drainage, irrigation and
flood protection systems
including public tubewells                                 18.3
Transport:
Roads                                   12.5
Railways                                 3             15-5
Power supply system                                         1.7
Telecommunications system                                   0.5
Water supply                                                1.7
Sub-total       37.7
Public 3uildings
Educational Institutions                     .9
Other    v                                  2.9             8.8
Private Housing                                              90.0
Tndustry                                                      5
Agriculture
Standing crops (farmgate value)                           17R.0
Stored grain   (CTF value)                                133.0
Other, including private tubewells                         59.0
Total          378.7
February 7, 1974



ANNEX ) i
PAKTSTAN                          Table 2
FLOOD REHABILTTATION PROGRAM CREDIT
SUMMARY OF CONSOID.,TED BUDGETARY ACCOUNTS, 1973/742/
Pre-Floo4                    Post-Flond
Revenue Receipts                               1,127                             585/
Non-development Expenditure                      984                       - 1,1206/
Revenue Surplus                                  143                            138
Development Tm enditure                      -    60-
Revenue Shortf all                           -   417                       -   422
Net Capital Receipts                         -     62                      -    62
Self-financing of Autonomous Bodies                23!!!                         1 8/
Financing Gap                                -   456                       -   46&
External Assistance                              345                            355
?roject Aid (public sector)                      (95)                           (9 )
Non-Prolect Aid                                 (251)                          (260)9/
Residual Deficit                             -   110                       -   113
1/  Federal, Provinces, and self-financing of autonomous bodies (PWR and WAPDA).
2/  Tncluding new revenue measures, Federal and Provinces, except for Rs. 80 million
from new electricity levies accounted for under self-financing of autonomous bodies.
3/  As budgeted by Federal and Provincial Governments (net of budgeted shortfall) in
Annual Development Plan (AD?) of Punjab. ADP proper is estimated at Rs.5,575 million.
Tncluding RE. 80 million new electricity levies.
i  Reflects net effect of: potential revenue losses due to floods (-138 crores, excluding
autonomous bodies), enhanced export duties (133 crores), revised surplus under State
Trading (46 crores), additional other taxes (10 crores) and new post-flood revenue
rieasures (M0 crores).
6/  7ncluding: additional expenditures due to floods (89 crores, based on "essential",
diroctly flood related 300,000 tons additional wheat imports and net of ADP adiust-
-,ents). and the net effeot of post-budget wage increases plus revisions in subsidies
(a? crores).
?   Es;inated additional Rs. 50 crores for flood rehabilitation and reconstruction to be
co-odated w-ithin the original ADP target by way of intersectoral reallocations and
ostprnement and phasing out nf lower priority schemes, affecting primarily the pro-
vincial MDPs of Punjab (Rs. 29 crores) and Sind (Rs. 9 crores), and to a lesser ex-
tent the programmes of some aujtonomous public entities (PWR - 3 crores, PT&T - 3.5
crores, WAPDA - Power - 1.5 crores, Postal Services - 0.5 crores).
8/  Reflecting flood impact (mainly PWR) of 7 crores.
9/  Yreliminary revised and adjusted post-flood estimates.  Inclusive of foreign aid
receipts for financing programs outside ADP.
Scurce:  Budget Documents of the Federal and Provincial Governm.ents:  Planning and
Th nance Divisions.
February 7, 1974



ANNEX 4
PAKTSTAN                          Table 3
FLOOD REHABILTTATION PROGRAM CREDTT
PAT,ANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1972/73 AND PROJECTED 1973/74
(US $ Million)h/
197?/73     Pre-7-ood        Post-2 nodl
Revised     107z/7i V/       1973/7)4  3/
Merchandise Exports (fob)                    - 817          900            1.100
Merchandise Tmports (cif)                    - 797       -1,000           -i,)JOO
Trade Balance                                   20       -  100           -  300
Invisifles (net)4/                           -  13       - _  0           -   h
Public Debt Service                          - 187       -  190           -  190<
Gap                                        - 180       -  350           -  535
External Aid - Project                         100          160              i1 6/
Non-ProJect                    2h4          200              2467-
(of which fnod)                (69)         (20)             (h4h)W/
Gap                                        + 164       -   10           -  125
Potential Financing Post-flood):
T.MF Stand-by (net)-                                                        50
Cash donations for flood relief_0'.- 13
Residual Gap                                                              -   62
1/  Current dollars.
2! Partly revised against earlier projection.
3/  Essentially in line with revised Giovernment projections.
4/  Tncluding Defense (73/74:  $120 million) and Home Remittances (73/7h:  $129 mil2ion);
payments FY 74 further include $)h2 million obligations vis-a-vis IMF.
5/  Ad,usted to reflect exchange rate changes and certain atdditional revision.
6/  $95 mi.llon public (as in 73/74 Budget) plus $70 million 'tprivate sector" which also
includes semi-autonomous entities such as PTA, etc. (No adjustment is made for in-
visible service normally associated with project aid - conventionally estimated at
15 percent of total flows; such refinement is neglected here in view of the consid-
erable tolerances in these projections generally).
7/  Tncluding additional $18 million for fertilizers from US but excluding notential
additional financing (e.g., from IDA or any other sources).
8!  Reflects aid financing arranged for 100,000 tons PL 48O/WFP wheat ($24 million) and
40,000 tons edible oil ($20 million); not including any prospective additional
assistance pA yet to be negotiated.
9/  Estimated net availability during FY 197h.
10/ Tn foreign exchange, in addition to Rs. 20 million.
Source:  Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division and P:.anning Division;
IBRP staff estimates.
February 7, 1974



ANNEx 4
Table T4
PAKISTAI
FIO-D REHfABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
COST ESTIMATES FOR RESTORATION OF CIVIL WORKSi
Province                     Item                       Amount, Rs Million
Panjab:
Barrages                                    34.5
Link canals and canal systems               41.0
Drainage systems                             5.9
Small dams                                   0.2
Flood bunds                                 13.3
Tubewells (public)                           8.o
Minor irrigation works                       8.1
Roads                                       83.3    194.3
,ind:
Barrages                  .14.5
Flood bunds, canals, drains                 32.5
T[ibewel1ls and purrps (public)             11.7
Roads                                       23.9      87.6
Baluchistan:
Irrigation works                             2.5       2.5
1orth W.Jest Frontier:
Irrigation works                             2.6       2.6
Pakistan Western Railway                                      30.0     30.0
317.0
i/ 3Subject to revision during negotiations. Based on "Memorandum
for the UN-IBRD Flood.  Rehabilitation Missions to Pakistan,,"
Planning Commission, Islamiabad, October 1973.
February 7, 1974



ANmEX 5
PAKTSTAN                       Table 1
FTOOD REHABTTITATTON PROGRAM CREDTT
FOIDGRATN BALOICE SHEET (AS AT NOV94BER 1973)
Wheat           Rice
Thousands of Tons
1.    Production
Wheat 1972/73 for consumption
in 1073/74.                                 7,400
Rice production 1973/74 re-
vised after floods.                                         2,500
Tess
2.    Sped and wastage
Wheat,10~                                     7140
Rice, 5%                                                      130
6,660           2,370
Tess
3.    Thsses due to the flood and addi-
tional seed requirements.                     63D             -
6,03D           2,370
Tess
h.    Export of rice
Basmati rice 1/                                                5
CJoarse rice  2/                                              660
5.    Net Availability                            6,030           1,260
6.    RequirePments for 66.6 million
people.
At 109 kgs. wheat per capita
per year                                    7,230
At 19 kgs. rice per capita per
year                                                        1,26_
7.    Gross Deficit                               1,200
8.    Tmports of Grai n
Received and promised as shown
in Annex 2, Table 2                           928
9.    Net Deficit                                   272
Fontnotes
1/  Basmati rice is not a staple diet in Pakistan due to its high price.  Tt eannot
he so3d in the local market and therefore has to be exported.
?/  This type of coarse rice was originally produced for East Pakistan.  Tt, is also
partly used in Sind Province. According to the Government, the balance has to be
exnorted because the rice is not a suitable substitute for wheat.
February 7, 1974



ANNEX_ j
Table 2
PAKISTAN
FLOOD RERABTLITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
GRAIN IMPORTS ON COMMERCIAL, CONCESSTONAL OR ATD TEIMS
ATREADY RECEIVED OR PROMISED
Source                          Quantity
Metric Tons
Cash Purchases;
United States of America                  315,500
Turkey                                      19, D00
Canada                                    240,000   (3-year credit)
Food Aid Convention (FAC);
Australia                                  33,000
Canada                                    115,000
Ptrance                                    10,000
European Common Market                     20,000
Germany                                    12,000
Sweden                                      6,000
IUnited Kingdom                            10,000
.USA PTr80 TiHe One;
Through WFP                              L0,000
Other                                    60,000
World Food Program (WFP);                  16,000
Total Wheat:   897,000
Sorghum:  USA Pih80 TiHe One;                         40,000
rAC;
Argentina                                   6,ooo
Total Sorghum: 46,000
Total Grain:   943,000
r)r:           928,000 Tong Tons
February 7, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAXIS TAN
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ATLLOCATION OF PROCEU6 OF CREIT
Amount            Basis of
Category                   (US    1 million)   Disbursement
I.   Civil Works
(a)  Restoration of              9,900,000         50% of total
damaged flood                                 expenditures
bunds, canals,
drains and
roads by force
account
(b)  Restoration of              1,900,000         100% of foreign
damaged flood                                 expenditures
at Moro in Sind by
contractor
II.  Consultants' Services               200,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
III. Imports directly related
to flood damage
(a)  Spare parts for             2,000,000
agricultural
tractors and for
farm machinery,
and agricultural
implements
(b)  Spare parta, re-              700,000
placement equip-
ment and materials
for tubewells
(a)  Spare parts for               300,000
construction ma-
chinery and equip-
ment
(d)  Replacements for              100,000
metereological
equipment and as-
sociated communi-
cations network
equipment and
spare parts



Page 2
Amount              4iis of
Category                   (U5V=ion)           _________
Ce)  Power drilling                900-,000
rigs, including
vehicles, equip-
ment, materials
and spare parts
IV.  Other Imports                   18,000,000          l100  of foreign
expenditures
Iron and steel,
Copper, nickel,
aluminum, lead,
organic and other
base metals.
Raw vegetable materials
and animal and vegetable
fats and oils.
Chemicals including
pesticides.
Fertilizers
Plastic materials,
rubber and synthetic
rubber.
Raw hides and skins.
Industrial timber and
glass sheets.
Pulp, paper and paper
making materials.
Man-made fibers, animal
hair and vegetable textile
materials.
Fine birch and graphite
Tools and implements
Machinery and mechanical
appliances.
Electrical machinery and
equipment.
Commercial and industrial
vehicles
V.   Unallocated                       1,000,000
Total             35,000,000
February 7,l974



ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN
FLOOD REHABILITATION CREDIT
Repair of Flood Damage -
Estimated Quantities and Costs
Item                                   Quantities          Cost
(million cubic ft.) (Rs. million)
Earthwork       Stone
Barrages
Punjab                                    117          3.9       34.5
Sind                                        9          2.3        7.5
Sub-totals                      126          6.2      42.0
Flood Embankment
Punjab                                    121          0.1       13.2
Sind                                      232          3.4       31.6
Sub-totals                     353          3.5      44.8
Link Canals
Punjab                                     82          2.3       16.5
Irrigation Systems
Punjab                                    257           0.5      26.4
Sind                                       17           -         5.0
Sub-totals                     274          0.5      31.4
Drainage Estems
Punjab                                    59            -        5.9
Sind                                      15           -         6.o
Sub-totals                    74           -       11.9
Tubewells Damge
1,180 in Puanjab                          -            -        5.1
40 in Sind                             -            -         o.6
Sub-total                 -             -        5.7
TOTALS            909          12.5     152.3
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ORGAN_ZATION, ADMINISTRATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Flood Reconstruction and Relief Responsibilities
1.       The flood-related activities for which various Government authorities
are responsible, and those undertaken by other agencies, are as follows:
(a) Rescue and Emergency Transportation
i) The defense services, in addition to carrying out most of the
population rescue operations, undertook the transportation
of labor and materials for emergency work, with
overall coordination by the Army.
_i) The US AID undertook the airlift of over 600,000 gallons of
fuel, and other cargo during rail service interruptions.
(b) Flood Protection and Irrigation
i)  The Meteorological Department issued storm and flood warnings,
through the Police Department coumunications network, to the
authorities concerned.
ii) The Provincial Irrigation Departments, assisted by the Central
Government's Machinery Pool Organization (MPO), the Agricultu-
ral Machinery Departments and the Army, have undertaken the
following in order of priority;
-  temporary repairs to damaged flood bunds;
-  temporary repairs to canals serving rice-growing areas,
link canals, and canals required for the 1973 kharif
and 1973/74 rabi crops;
- repair of Irrigation Department tubewells;
- permanent repairs to alL canals;
- restoration of barrage stonework protection;
- restoration of drainage systems; and (in addition to drilling
contractors);
- redrilling of private tubewells destroyed.
iii)   The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) has undertaken
- the operation of MPO earth-moving and other mechanical equipment;
- the repair of their flood-damaged SCARP tubewells.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
iv) The private sector is undertaking
- the repair of small irrigation water courses by farmers;
-  the restoration of private wells, tubewells and motors.
(c) Power
- the restoration of transmission and electricity distribu-
tion systems;
- the reconnection of consumers' supplies.
(d) Transportation
i)   The Pakistan Western Railway, assisted by the Army, undertook
the following:
- the emergency commissioning of a new railway branch line
on the west bank of the Indus;
- the restoration of embankments and track of main railway
lines and branch lines;
- to restore main line to full capacity by January 1974.
ii)   The Provincial Roads Departments, assisted by the Machinery Pool
Organization, are undertaking:
- the restoration of the National Highway to full capacity,
probably by March 1974;
-  the restoration of other roads, probably by June, 1974.
(e) Telecommunications
The Telephones and Telegraph Department is undertaking the following:
-  repair and restoration of the Karachi-Lahore-Islamabad coaxial
cable links;
-  restoration of overhead communication systems;
- restoration of telephone exchanges;
- importation, installation and commissioning of transportable
stand-by micrawave and VHF systems, and associated power
equipment for emergency use.
(f) Agriculture
i)  The Provincial Agriculture Departments have undertaken the following
in association with the Agriculture Supply Corporation and the Food
Department:
- distribution of seed for 1973/74 wheat crop;
- distribution of additional fertilizer supplies;
- increased the number of tractors for hire by farmers from
Provincial Agricultural Engineering Departments;
- to increase the number of tubewell drilling rigs available
for hire;
- to arrange for additional wheat imports.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
ii) The Ministry of Finance, the Provincial Revenue Departments,
the Cooperatives, the ADBP and the commercial banks have
undertaken to increase the 1973/74 amount of Tacavi loans
and emergency loans to Rs. 1,000 million (with interest
during the grace period of 1 year guaranteed by the GOP) for
- purchase of seed and fertilizer by farmers in kind;
- replacement of bullocks lost;
- restoration of private tubewells;
- replacement of farm implements.
Organization of Distribution of Relief Goods
2.       The UN report (Chapter XIV) states that the GOP has set up a "Relief
Goods Despatch Organization" for the receipt of all relief goods from abroad,
and goods are proportionately distributed between the two Provinces of Punjab
and Sind, where they are taken over by Relief Commissioners. Relief articles
so far received have been expeditiously despatched by air, road and water.
The Deputy Commissioners in each of the affected districts have taken over
the distribution of the relief goods in the relief camps and to other flood-
affected persons.
3.       The main items received from abroad were medicines, tents, blankets,
used clothing, concentrated food and powdered milk. The medical stores
received have been sent to the provincial health organizations which dis-
tribute them to hospitals, rural health centres and rural dispensaries.
The tents have been used in the worst affected districts of Jhang, Multan
and Rahimyar Khan in Punjab Province and the concentrated food is being
used in all the hospitals in the flood-affected areas. Used clothes have
been distributed to flood-affected persons.
4.       The UN report also states, in Chapter XV, that in order to obtain
the maximum assistance from international voluntary agencies, and to avoid
duplication of effort and to give them the necessary direction, it would be
advisable that their activities should be properly coordinated both between
themselves, with the GOP and the Governments of Punjab and Sind; for this
purpose a coordinating authority should be designated in the Central Govern-
ment, with corresponding officials in the Provincial Governments. The inter-
national voluntary agencies can then contact this coordinator and prepare
and carry out their programs through their local voluntary workers.
Central Flood Committee
5.       The GOP set up a Central Flood Committee in August 1973, under
the Chairmanship of the Minister of Finance, and with members drawn from
the Central and Provincial Governments. It would be appropriate for the
special Administrator,proposed by the Association to be responsible to the
Chairman of the Committee for the implementation of his duties.
February 7, 1974






l3RDD 1006
69             70              71             772            73             7               75             760            770      November1973
36                                                                                                     __ _ _ _ _ _36'
3
,54T -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-Z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
S     fW                                                                                                   ----- -*--W 4-  o- es  o - -  r\
.'    hot  eo oloo    or  OCOpOOs    by    shA    AEA  &D       s                 S  *sMs
330  _._|_ .                X    S tt >              7Sq  l -+ sd~~~~~~~~~ So hosos re                a                   _ 3
- |tTs .WOlooordog,oafya,or 7 osero
t     s xt ;1/~i \~$\
<20X z <  4  -               -                ; V    _<  m4U v  ot ucyw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
t  X  U  I Wk 44 ) Mwttt ... k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTES .X , 
/ ss t>.,i_   e2p1                                                                                                                             2STLX,a  %bE8t
rhl b          l                                                                                     75 Msuu       l       
6 ~     ~        0      / je 71              71               7                 4                507' ?5 77






1BRD 10798
J O O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDI                                                                                       PA    KI   1 ETR N5(1973 D- eC
FLOOD  PATTERNS (1973)
AFHGANISTAN                                                                                                   AREAS F5  1 AU   _C T                                     '-
-N-L~ ~~~~A
itD                  I1u   E                                                                                                                   --    TLtADDRASACTTARALAJATSCR4RdANRS01S  4016   _   . -=  ,1 
/ ( 3  r/s dorf 1; j, 00  LoETEs -I-                                              ;T-s
AFHGANJSTANMIE



