CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 466 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Flood Rehabilitation Program)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 466 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Flood Rehabilitation Program)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 18, 1974


﻿S
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1974, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) As a result of flood occurring in August and September 1973,
the Borrower incurred the damage more particularly described in the report dated
October 1973 entitled "Report of the Joint UN/iBRD Mission to Pakistan on
Damage Caused by the Flood of August/September 1973 and Recominendations
for Assistance".
(B) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by extending the credit
as hereinafter provided.
(C)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Gibb" means Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.


﻿4
(b)   "Gibb Contract" means the agreement to be entered into between Gibb
and the Association relating to the review of Part A of the Project.
(c)   "ITC Heading Number" means the Import Trade Control Heading
Number based on the Brussels Trade Nomenclature, as used in the New Import
Trade Control Schedule, dated July 19, 1971 of the Borrower.
(d)   "MPO" means the Machinery Pool Organization which is a subsidiary
of the Borrower's Water and Power Development Authority.
(e)   "Provinces" means Sind and Punjab.
(f)   "Punjab" means the Province of the Punjab.
(g)   "Sind" means the Province of Sind.
(h)   "TJV" means the Tarbela Joint Venture, a multi-national contractor
consortium.
(i)   "TCP" means the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, a private limited
company owned by the Borrower and registered under the Companies Act of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each July 15 and January 15 commencing
July 15, 1984 and ending January 15, 2024, .ach installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1994, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Punjab and Sind respectively to
carry out Part A(i) of the Project, shall cause Sind to carry out Part A(ii) of
the Project and shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project in each case with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and, in the case of Parts B, C and D of the
Project, shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Provinces
to perform their respective obligations referred to in Schedule 4 hereto (except
as the Association shall otherwise agree), and shall take and cause to be taken


﻿6
all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces respectively to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to the Provinces the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn by it under Categories 1(a) and (b) of Part A of the table
set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I hereto.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the arrangements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Provinces referred to in Section 8.01
hereof in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign nor amend, abrogate
or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licences as shall be required
to carry out the Project; and (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed all foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through MPO or its other departments or
agencies, shall make available to Sind and Punjab such machinery and equipment
as shall be necessary, in addition to the machinery, equipment and other resources
otherwise available to them, to enable Sind and Punjab to carry out Part A(i)
of the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable Gibb to perform its obligations under the Gibb
Contract and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿7
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association may
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association all such information as the
Association may reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the


﻿8
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that arrangements satisfactory
to the Association shall have been made respectively between the Borrower and
Sind and between the Borrower and Punjab for the carrying out by the Provinces
of Part A(i) of the Project and by Sind of Part A(ii) of the Project.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the
arrangements referred to in Section 8.01 hereof have duly entered into on behalf
of the Borrower and Sind and Punjab respectively, and constitute a valid and binding
obligation of each of the parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
Section 8.03. The date May 22, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington ).C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s / A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
fbr and on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    (a)   Part A of the table below sets forth the Categories of the iterns to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
PART A
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works
(a)   Restoration of                9,900,000          50% of total
damaged flood                                    expenditures
bunds, canals,
drains and
roads under
Part A(i) of
the Project
(b)   Restoration of                1,900,000          100% of foreign
damaged flood                                    expenditures
bunds under
Part A(ii) of
the Project
II.  Consultants' Services                 200,000          100% of foreign
under Part B of the                                    expenditures
Project
Ill.  Imports under Part C
of the Project
(a)   Spare parts for               2,000,000          100% of foreign
agricultural                                     expenditures
tractors and for
farm machinery
and agricultural
implements
(b)   Spare parts, re-                700,000          100% of foreign
placement equip-                                 expenditures
ment and mate-
rials for tubewells


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c)   Spare parts for                  300,000           100% of foreign
construction ma-                                   expenditures
chinery and equip-
ment of the Bor-
rower and of the
Provinces
(d)   Replacements for                 100,000           100% of foreign
meteorological                                     expenditures
equipment of the
Borrower, and as-
sociated communi-
cations network
equipment and
spare parts
(e)   Power drilling                   900,000           100% of foreign
rigs, including                                    expenditures
vehicles, equip-
ment, materials
and spare parts
therefor
IV.   Imports under Part D of             18,000,000           100% of foreign
the Project, as speci-                                   expenditures
fied in Part B of the
table set forth below
V.    Unallocated                          1,000,000
TOTAL              35,000,000


﻿14
(b)    Part B of the table sets forth the items to be financed under Category
IV of Part A of the table.
PART B
Serial                           I. T. C Heading                     Name of
Number                              Number                            Article
1.                                   13, 32                   Raw vegetable mate-
(excl. heading 32.01A)            rials and extracts
for use in dyeing
or tanning
II.                                    15                     Animal and vege-
table fats and
oils
III.                        25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 38            Salt, sulphur and
(excl. headings 28.05B,           chemicals, includ-
28.12B, 18.46A, 28.56A)           ing pesticides
IV.                                    31                      Fertilizer (compound
or phosphatic)
V.                                   35, 39                    Glues, resins and
plastic materials
VI.                                    40                      Rubber, synthetic
(excl. heading 40.13)             rubber and factice
VII.                                   41                      Raw hides and skins
VIII.                                  44                      Industrial wood
IX.                                  47, 48                   Paper and paper board,
(excl. headings 48.14,            pulp and paper making
48.17 and 48.18)                  materials
X.                           50, 51, 53, 56, 57 and 59         Silk, silk yarn, wool,
(excl. heading 56.06)             man-made fibres, ani-
mal hair, vegetable
textile materials,
wadding and felt
XI.                                    69                      Fire brick, refractory
(excl. headings 69.04,            materials and graphite
69.05, 69.07 to 69.14)            crucibles
XII.                                   70                      Industrial glass sheets
and plates


﻿15
Serial                          L T.. Heading                    Name of
Number                             Number                          Article
XIII.                                73                     Iron and steel
(excl. headings 73.16,
73.38)
XIV.                       74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79,          Copper, nickel, alumi-
80, 81, 83 (excl. headings       num, lead, magnesium
74.17 and 74.18, 83.04,          and beryllium, zinc,
83.06, 83.10, 83.12 and          tin and other base
83.14)                           metals
XV.                                  82                     Tools and implements
(excl. headings 82.08,
82.13 and 82.14)
XVI.                                 84                     Boilers, machinery and
mechanical appliances
XVII.                                85                     Electrical machinery
(excl. headings 85.14,           and equipment
85.15A and 85.16)
XVI.                      87.02B and C, 87.04,             Commercial and indus-
87.06 (for vehicles              trial vehicles (parts
falling within headings          for assembly)
87.02B and C), 87.07 and
87.14


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made under Category I of Part A of the table set out in
paragraph 1 above on account of expenditures incurred after August 16, 1973
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of Part A of the table
in paragraph I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable
net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of Part A of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or any
Sub-category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category or Sub-category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or any
Sub-category shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of Part
A of the table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied
to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated
by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category or
Sub-category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject, however, to the
requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of
any other expenditures; and


﻿17
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of Part A
of the table in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under
Sub-category 1(a) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Sub-category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such    Sub-category  may  continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the rehabilitation of civil works damaged by the 1973
floods, the carrying out of flood warning and protection reviews, the provision
of spare parts and replacements for machinery and equipment to meet the additional
demand therefor resulting from damage by the floods, and the provision of support
for the economic development of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(i)        The restoration of the flood protection, irrigation and drainage
systems and the road networks in the Provinces of the Punjab
and Sind as damaged by floods, including in the case of Punjab
approximately 630 million cubic feet of earthworks, 7 million
cubic feet of stoneworks and 930 miles of roadworks and in
the case of Sind 250 million cubic feet of earthworks (excluding
the earthworks included in paragraph (ii) hereof), 6 million cubic
feet of stoneworks and 100 miles of roadworks.
(ii)       The reconstruction of approximately 16 miles of damaged flood
protection bund, on the left bank of the Indus near Moro in
Sind.
Part B:
(i)        The carrying out of a review of existing flood prediction and
warning systems and the formulation of proposals for the
improvement thereof.
(ii)       The carrying out of a review of existing flood protection works
and the preparation of a detailed program of studies leading to
the identification of projects for improved flood protection.
Part C:
(i)        The provision of spare parts for agricultural tractors and for farm
machinery and of agricultural implements.


﻿19
(ii)       The provision of spare parts, replacement equipment and
materials for tubewells.
(iii)      The rehabilitation of construction machinery and equipment of
the Borrower as required for the purposes of Section 3.03 of
the Development Credit Agreement.
(iv)       The rehabilitation of the telecommunications equipment of the
Borrower damaged by the 1973 floods, and the provision of
replacements, emergency standby components and spare parts.
(v)        The rehabilitation of the meteorological equipment of the
Borrower damaged by the 1973 floods and the provision of
associated communications network equipment and spare parts.
(vi)       The provision of four power drilling rigs for provincial
government operation and of five power drilling rigs for
commercial operation, including vehicles, equipment, materials
and spare pa.rs therefor, for redrilling tubewells.
Part D:
The importation of raw and semi-finished materials, equipment,
components, spare parts and agricultural inputs to support the
economic development of the Borrower and assist the recovery of the
economy from the adverse effects of the 1973 floods.
Parts A and B(i) of the Project are expected to be substantially completed
by July 31, 1974 and the remainder of the Project is expected to be completed
by March 31, 1975.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except as mentioned in paragraph 2 hereof the goods referred to in Categories
III and IV of Part A of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule I to this
Agreement shall be procured on a competitive basis through normal commercial
channels.
2.    With respect to contracts for goods referred to in Category IV of Part A
of such table which are procured by TCP and which are estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i)        bids shall be obtained from not less than three of the major
suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
(ii)       the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is the
lowest evaluated bid; and
(iii)      the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
execution of the contract and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract; (a) ihe
details of the bids sought; (b) the names of the firms invited
to submit bids; (c) the summary of the bids submitted and, in
the event the lowest bid is not accepted, the analysis thereof
and the reasons for choosing the successful bidder, and (d) two
conformed copies of such contract.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Participation in Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project
by the Provinces of the Punjab and Sind
1.    Punjab and Sind shall respectively agree to carry out Part A(i) of the Project
and Sind shall agree to carry out Part A(ii) of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, in each case with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices and shall respectively provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose, with a view to the substantial completion of such Parts A(i) and
A(ii) by July 31, 1974.
2.    In order to assist it in the supervision of the carrying out of Part A(ii) of
the Project, Sind shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.    (a)   For the purposes of Part A(i) of the Project, the Provinces shall take
such action on their respective parts as shall be necessary to put their existing
machinery and equipment into satisfactory operational condition.
(b)   In carrying out Part A(i) of the Project, the Provinces shall utilize
such machinery and equipment suitable for the purpose as shall be available to
them.
4.    In carrying out Part A(ii) of the Project, Sind shall employ TJV (or other
contractors acceptable to the Association) upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
5.    Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Provinces shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to them  by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Parts A(i) and (ii) of the
Project.
6.    Each of the Provinces shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association may
reasonably request.
7.    (a)   Each of the Provinces: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project (including the cost thereof) and


﻿22
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Parts A(i) and
(ii) of the Project, (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
11 of this Schedule, enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association may reasonably request concerning Parts A(i)
and (ii) of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   Each of the Provinces shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A(i) and (ii) of the
Project.
8.    Each of the Provinces shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project.
9.    Each of the Provinces shall cooperate fully with the Association to assure
that the purposes of Parts A(i) and A(ii) of the Project will be accomplished. To
that end, each of the Provinces shall from time to time, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with it through their representatives with regard to
the performance of the obligations of the Province under this Schedule, and other
matters relating to the purpose of such Parts of the Project.
10.   Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Association through the
Borrower of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of Parts A(i) and A(ii) of the Project, or
the performance by either of the Provinces of its obligations under this Schedule.
11.   Each of the Provinces shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all their respective plants, sites, works, properties and equipment and any
relevant records and documents.
12.   For the purposes of this Schedule, references in paragraphs 6, 7, 9, 10 and
11 hereof to the Association or its representatives, shall be deemed to include
reference to Gibb acting on behalf of the Association pursuant to the Gibb Contract.


