Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23081
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34780; SCPD-3478S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$57 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR A
SISTAN FLOOD CTRL PROJECT
12/26/2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2001)
Currency Unit = Iranian Rial
10,000 Iranian Rials = US$ 1.25
US$ I = Rls 8,000
FISCAL YEAR
March 21   March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBI              Central Bank of Iran
CPI              Consumer Price Index
CW               Civil Works
DC               Direct Contracting
DOE              Department of Environment
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FFYP            First Five-Year Plan
FWEP            Flood Warning and Emergency Plan
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GNP              Gross National Product
GOI              Govermnent of the Islamic Republic of Iran
IAG              Inspector and Auditor General
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             Intemnational Competitive Bidding
IS              International Shopping
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF             Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
MOE              Ministry of Energy
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PBO              Planning and Budget Organization
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
Rls             Iranian Rials
RMP             Resource Management Program
RWBs            Regional Water Boards
SBRWB           Sistan Baluchistan Regional Water Board
SDO             Sistan Development Organization
WRC             Water Research Center
a.rn.s.l.       above mean sea level
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Joseph Saba
Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
Task Manager:    Hiba Tahboub



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SISTAN FLOOD CTRL
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     9
6. Sustainability                                                                        10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         I 1
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        13
9. Partner Comments                                                                      14
10. Additional Information                                                               15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005213                                         PoetName: SISTAN FLOOD CTRL
Team Leader: Hiba Muawyah Tahboub                           TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR             _|eotDi:ecemnber 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SISTAN FLOOD CTRL                                L/I/TF Number: CPL-34780;
SCPD-3478S
Cotntry/Departnieiit: IRAN, iSLAMIC REPUBLIC OF                             Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/13/91                                  Efff'ctive:  10/30/92           10/30/92
Appraisal:  01/31/92                                    MTR:                        06/22/96
Approval:  05/28/92                                  Closing:  12/31/98            06/30/2001
Borrowver/hlnplementing Ageincy:  GOVERNMENT/SBRWB
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:      Joseph Saba                                 Ram K. Chopra
Sector Maanager:      Emmanuel Forestier                          Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Hiba Tahboub
ICR Primary Author:  lHiba Tahboub; Lars A. V.
Rasmusson; Mathewos Woldu
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ozutcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
institutional Development Impact: M
Balnk Per/brinance: S
Borrower Perlornma;rce: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Qtuality at Entrv.:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Desigi , and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background, summarizedfrom the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)



General
Thle Sistan Plain comprises an area of some 250,000 hectares (ha), of which about 160,000 ha is arabte.
Range lands in and around the project area amount to about 525,000 ha. out of which about 95,000 ha are
located along the fringes of the lakes (Hamuns) during the dry season. The Sistan Plain is bounded in the
east by the Common Parian river which fonns a long section of the border between Iran and Afghanistan;
in the north an-d west by the Sistan sink that includes th-e Puzak, the Saburi and the Hirmand Hamuns
(lakes); and in the south by high terraces and the Chahnime depression. Zabol, the only urban center in the
area, is about 205 km from Zahedan (the provincial capital), and 600 km from the Gulf of Oman. It is
connected by a two-lane asphalt road to Zahedan, Chabahar and Bandar-e-Abbas ports to the south and
Mashliad to the north.
Mjr flood events
Floods in the Sistan plain are caused by overflow from the river during high flows generated in the upper
catchmenits of the Hirmuand river, located entirely in Afghanistan. This high flow resulted from the heavy
rainfall and snow-melt, which is aggravated by steep gradients, impenneable soils, and limited valley
storage. The cause of occurrence and severity of floods in the Hinrand and its main tributary, the
Arghandab, are peculiar to the river system. In hIigh flow years, flooding also results from the lake waters
as well as wind-induced surge of areas along the lake shore and as far inland as the towin of Zabol. Floods
whlich caused extensive damage occurred in 1957, 1982, 1991, and 1998. The 1957 flood reaclhed a peak
of 1.640 m3/sec, according to the measurements of the Sistan Baluchistan Regional Water Boardi
(SBRWB). Flood waters inundated a total area of about 23,000 ha, and completely paralyzed the
irrigation system of Kokak and Zah-ak barrages. The 1982 floods were relatively less severe and caused
inunidation of only about 7,500 ha of agricultural land. In 1991, however, the Sistan river received higlh
flows for almost three months, including a record flow of 2,300 m3/sec (in February), followed by two
more peaks within a period of six weeks of about 900 m3/sec each. This flood event caused the worse
devastation in the region recorded in recent history; large areas were flooded causing heavy damage to
public and private property and infrastructure. The situation was aggravated by flooding from the lake due
to hiigh water level and strong northwesterly winds (>100 km/hr.). Floods of relatively less magnitude and
adverse impact were recorded in 1989 and 1990 with peak flows of about 1,300 and 1,200 m3/sec,
respectively. In 1998, a devastating flood  occurred causing damages in the project area including the
destruction of dikes under construction, but other possible damages where prevented.
Original Objectives
Against this background, the principal objective of the project, as set out in the SAR  were to: (a) reduce
the risks to human life and prevent damage to public and private properties and infrastructure due to major
floods; (b) minimize disruptions to the local economy; (c) provide protection against major floods for
habitats and cultural property; and (d) mitigate environmental degradation and health hazards caused by
floods and by ad hioc development in the project area.
3. ' Reviiscd Oblective:.
Altlhough there were some chaniges in a number of project components and management arrangements, the
project objectives were not revised.
3.3 OJ igil2a/  (.(J7/>)JCJltX.
Main components and key elements supporting the proposed program are given below:
a. Civil works for : upgrading the Sistan River 130 flood protection dikes and providing training works:
- 2 -



upgrading the 42 km long Niatak floodway with the exception of the first 12 kn long reach which is being
built with Govemrnent's funds; improving the capacity of the existing 3.8 km long feeder channel to
Chahluime reservoirs; rehabilitating and upgrading the 100 km dike along the southern shore of Hirmand
lake; providing and upgrading seven bridges; and developing a rock quarry for the supply or rip-rap
material.
b. Acquisition of land for rehabilitating flood control works.
c. Equipment for: maintaining the Sistan river, Niatak floodway and Hirmand flood protection works;
improving the central workshop located at Zabol; setting up a construction quality control laboratory; and
establishing facilities for recording river flow and stage as well as procurement of vehicles and spare parts
for new and existing equipment.
d. Institutional strengthening of SBRWB and its sub-regional office in Zabol, consisting of: (i) proper
staffing and facilities for strengthening both the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would be
responsible for construction management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, and the special unit
dedicated to the maintenance and repair of flood protection works in the projects area, (ii) recruiting
expatriate experts for the provision of technical services and training involving local and foreign
consultants for various activities of the project, and training, both - on-job and abroad - of SBRWB staff.
e. Plhysical and mathematical modelling of the Sistan river for optimizing design and maintenance of flood
control and training works.
f. Teclnical assistance for institutional strengthening of the Sistan Development Organization and of the
local offices of the Department of the Environment and the Cultural Heritage Organization. This includes
provision of a program for flood warning and flood emergency response, and a resource management
program (RMP).
3.4 Revised Con7ponents:
The different components regarding scope of works were revised as follows:
a. Civil works were modified along the following lines:
a. 1) The length of the dikes along the southem shore of lake Hirmand was reduced from 100 to 67 km.
This reduction was caused by canceling the construction of 33 km of dikes originally intended for
the protection of settlements that were illegally developed in the lake area.
a.2) The lengtlh of the dikes along the Sistan river was reduced from  130 to 105 km. This reduction
resulted from: i) realignment of the dikes on the downstream reach through the integration of
existing dike structure that was deemed to be in acceptable condition; and (ii), maintaining the
existing dikes, on the upstream reach, by deepening the river bed. Thus increasing the discharge
capacity without raising them as originally planned.
a.3) Instead of upgrading and building seven bridges, as originally proposed, only four bridges were
constructed. One at the inlet of Niatak floodway and three over the Niatak floodway/river. In
addition, a weir at the inlet of the Niatak floodway was added during project implementation.
a.4) A contract to develop a rock quarry for the supply of rip-rap material for slope protection was
terminated due unsatisfactory performance of the contractor. Consequently, lean sand asphalt was
introduced as a feasible alternative.
a.5) The earthworks of the waterway connecting Chamine 3 to Chamine 4 reservoirs were completed to
serve dual functions. The first to control extreme floods, the second is to utilize Chahmine 4 as
- 3 -



potable water reservoir.
b. No modifications.  This component was finaniced by the Government. The project required the
acquisition of 57 ha of barren land, 10 ha of agricultural land, and relocating 12 ho-uses. Although most of
the land was owned by the Government and did not affect populated or agricultural land, the Government
of Iran (GOI) purchased the private property at market value and the few affected families were relocated
and compensated in kind. The procedure followed by the Govermnent for the land acquisition and
resettlement plans was designed on a case by case basis. Tihis was acceptable to the Bank team at the time
of acquisition. It is noteworthy, however, that no resettlement plan nor public consultation took place prior
to project effectiveness.
c. The supply of instruments and equipment as needed under the flood warniing and emergency plan did not
take place under the project because of delays in executing the related study. However, this will be
subsequently accomplished by the govenmment through its own financing.
d. The project implementation unit (PIU) that was originally proposed to be an integral part of the SBRWB
was replaced during project execution on the account of its unsatisfactoty perforinance. To this end, the
GOI agreed with the World Bank on the appointment of a qualified consulting firm to carry out services
related to the evaluation and monitoring activities as well as constructioni supervision. The provision of
institutional strengthening was limited to training of SBRWTB staff with special emphasis on developing an
adequate capacity for operation and maintenalnce of relevant works. In comparison with the original
objective, the scope of training program was reduced as a result of the delays in its initiation.
e. No modifications.
f. The preparation and implementation of a program for flood waming and emergency response were
delayed but will be finalized through government financing after project completion. An action plan for
implementing the resource management program was formulated by a local consultant and was found to be
acceptable to the Bank. However, its implementation is being carried out outside the project.
Two main changes were introduced to the design characteristics and are summarized as follows:
e Rock material to be used for slope protection could not be supplied in required quantities in accordance
with the planned schedule. The relevant contract, therefore, was tenrminated as a consequence of the
delays and production difficulties. An alternative method was developed with the provision of lean
sand asphalt. This alternative deemed to be fully acceptable, notwithstanding the fact that its durability
is less than that of the rip-rap. This shortcoming was counter-balanced by its lower cost. Due to
funding constraints, it was decided at appraisal to leave certain reaches of the dikes unprotected.
However, during a flood in April 1998, significant damages occurred on dikes under construction. This
indicated that protection had to be introduced far more extensively than previously envisaged. The
lower price for lean sand asphalt compared to rip-rap also made it possible for a wider coverage
without causing cost overruns. A mathematical modeling excercise was carried out to decide on the
extent to which slope protection was required and the sections of the rivers where training works were
to be carried out. To ensure effective maintenance of the slope protection, procurement of appropriate
machinery was also added under the project.
In addition, the whole lakeside of the dikes under asphalt covering was made with a uniform slope of
1:3. Whereas, the original slope of unicovered reaches was 1:4.
-4 -



* Complementary Component. The project included works that aimed at increasing the capacity of the
existing 3.8 km long feeder canal to the first of the three Chahnimne reservoirs. Main function of these
reservoirs is to provide storage of water for domestic, industrial and irrigation purposes. Due to the
prolonged drought in the Sistan area since 1997, the Govermment decided to proceed with the
construction of a forth Chahnime reservoir. The construction was done by utilizing natural depressions
and by constructing a dam and a waterway with gates for connecting the third to the forth Chahnime
reservoir. This proposal had previously been studied as an integral part of facilities to be required for
the dual purpose of flood protection and creation of adequate water storage.  Therefore, this
arrangement was agreed to by the Bank and the construction of the gate was included as a variation
order to ongoing contract for the upstream reaches of the Sistan River (C-OlA).
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
There was no perfonnance rating by the QAG of the World Bank. However, the ICR considers the overall
quality at entry to be satisfactory.
The project came in response to the devastating floods that occurred in 1991 and was included in the
Govenmment's First Five -Year Plan (FFYP: 1998/1990 - 1993/1994). The project was consistent with the
Govemnment's strategy in undertaking economic development programs to improve the quality of life of one
of the poorest regions in the Country. The project is also consistent with Bank's mission of poverty
reduction, as the economy of the area depends primarily on the utilization of water resources from the
Sistan river. Accordingly, protection from flood hazards is essential to sustain, if not improve, the on-going
economic activities.
The Bank provided significant inputs during the fonnulation and design of such a high priority project
using its experience in providing member countries assistance in the restructuring of infrastructure
seriously affected by natural disasters. In addition to identifying the physical component of the project, the
framework and terms of references of studies and activities needed to ensure sustainability and capacity
building were integrated in the project design. An environmental impact assessment and mitigation plan
was prepared by the borrower in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
In spite of the above, the ICR finds two shortcomings in the project appraisal (detailed later on in the
report). The first is the lack of detailed design of the physical investment component, with the first contract
awarded two years after project effectiveness.
The second shortcoming is the lack of a detailed financial management plan (FMP) that should have
clarified the issue of payment to contractors in foreign currency and the different exchange rate used in
project disbursement.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconmelachie"emwent of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, as most of the project development objectives have
been achieved. The project brought significant flood control benefits in providing adequate facilities for
protection against floods with a probability of occurring once in every one hundred years. The most
fundamental impact of the project is that the flood control infrastructure is designed to channel river and
lake flood waters into a carefully designed drainage system. Such a system reduces damage to urban
infrastructure, protects private and public properties, minimizes the disturbances to the local economy, and
significantly reduces environmental degradation caused by floods. Moreover, the project economic rate of
return (ERR), recalculated at project completion at 17%, is slightly higher than the value of ERR estimated
at project appraisal (15%).
The sustainability of investment implemented under the project is likely on the account of the commitment
- 5 -



of the GOI to provide SBRWB with sufficient funds on anunual basis for proper operation and maintenance(
O&M) of all flood protection facilities in the project area. The budget for O&M was based on the
assessment of costs incurred each year on repair and routine and preventive mainteniance of similar assets.
On the other hand, the project partially accomplish the development objective of institutional strengtheninlg.
The development and implementation of flood waming plan, which are essential supplements to the
physical flood protection works, were not finalized at project closing. Aware of the importance of the plan,
the Govemmnent made a commitment to finalize study and implement it using its own financial resources.
A training program was carried out on a limited scope focusing on training related to operation and
maintenance of flood protection assets. The outcome of this training program could not be assessed since
the PIU did not submit a report presenting thie result of the training program in relation to the requirements
of staffing and organizational structures. Moreover, training on proper utilization of the flood waming and
emergency systems did not take place because of the delay in initiating the relevant study as mentioned
above.
In conclusion, the project achieved the objectives regarding physical works but only partly achieved its
objective in the development of ani institutional capacity as originally planned. However, it is likely tlhat the
onigoinig activities that are carried out by the GOI will secure their proper utilization and ensur-e effective
operation and maintenance of investments implemented under the project.
4.2 Ow/plas hV (b7YcllipoJllnlts.
The outputs by components, as presented below, follow what has been stated under 3.3 (original
componenits) and 3.4 (revised components).
a. Civil works were completed for:
* The Sistan river including 105 km of dikes, culverts at Nor-Ab bridge, and river training works, as
required;
• The Niatak floodway/river including 30 km of dikes; floodway weir; and four bridges.
* The remodeling of the feeder channel to the Clhahnime reservoirs to increase its discharge capacity.
* The Hirmand lake including provision of 67 km of dikes.
* The construction of a waterway connecting the third to the fourth Clhahnime reservoirs.
b. Procurement of vehicles, machlinery and equipment including:
* Setting up quality control laboratories for materials used in the civil works component.
* Purchasing two vehicles, paver finisher, two loaders and two bulldozers, one suction dredger, asphalt
plant, dump trucks, two hydraulic excavators, six station wagons.
c.The achievement of institutional strengthening was limited to the provision of the following:
* A project implementationi unit that is mainly run by a consulting finn ratlher tlhan by staff fromz
SBRWB as originally planned.
* Traininlg of staff to assume responsibility for operation and maintenianice of assets created undel- the
project.
* The preparation of a Resource Managemenit Plan.
* The initiationl of a Flood Warning and Emergency Plan.
d. Environmental Aspects: The project was classified under environmental Category B. Prior to project
appraisal, the govemnment prepared an enviroiunental assessment and mitigation plan which is in
comnpliance with the World Bank Operational Directive 4.01. The ICR finds that the project has
significantly improved the environment with positive impacts in tenns of eliminating threats of widespread
- 6 -



flood damage, soil salinity and alkalinity, anld flood-caused contamination (due to sewerage overflows and
water-borne garbage) in the project area, thereby reducing related health hazards.
e. Socio-economic Aspects: The project area is one of the poorest in Iran. The population is particularly
vulnerable to natural disasters. The past severe floods resulted in lengthy disruption to their economic
activity (mainly farming and carpet weaving). By building and upgrading the flood protection structures,
the project provided increased security for the population of the area manifested through protecting them
from the hazards of floods. This protection is essential to sustain, if not improve, the on-going economic
activities. The soci-economic benifits of the project could also be ascribed to the significant number of
employment opportunities created during project execution, and the increased availability of water for
irrigation, particularly from the first three Chahnine reservoirs. No figures were available, however, to
cairy out an analysis of project impact with regard to poverty alleviation.
Gender specific targets were not included in the project design, and the supervision mission did not inquire
nor took measures to review the gender dimension. Although it could not be quantified for lack of the
relevant data, the ICR finds that the project had a positive impact on women in two different ways:
• One of the references "women's employment Issues in Contemporary Iran: Problems and prospects in
the 1990s", reviewed by the ICR team, mentions that in the rural areas of Iran the estimated share of
women's input in agriculture is about 22.3%. Although it is believed that this figure is higher in the
project area, the ICR chooses to assume that the same figure applies to the project area. Therefore,
22.3% of the labor force positively affected by the project were women.
* Potable water from Chahmine reservoir 4, which was not included initially in the project, was
brought closer to different households in 200 small villages of the area. Thus, women who, for
cultural and economic reasons, are usually tasked with fetching water for drinking, cooking and other
household activities would now have to travel significantly shorter distances to reach the sources of
potable water.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economnic rate of return:
The economic analysis compares the estimated investment and operation and maintenance costs of
rehabilitating and upgrading flood control works and the associated early waming and monitoring programs
to the expected quantifiable project benefits. The Project's costs and benefits are expressed in economic
tenns.
The cost streams consist of civil works, land acquisition, design and supervision, technical assistance and
training, cost of equipment and operating and maintenance costs of the civil works. The project's
investment and operation and maintenance costs were converted to economic costs by deducting taxes and
custom duties and the local cost component converted by using standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85.
The economic life of the works is estimated at 50 years.
The economic benefits are measured in tenns of the avoidance and/or reduction in frequency of flood
damages to standing crops, houses, infrastructure, and other facilities and the consequent need for
rehabilitation works that would be necessary without the project's flood protection works.
For the "with" and "without" project conditions, the average ainual benefits accruing from protection of
flood damages (to evenly distribute the risk of flooding over the life of the project) were estimated. The
estimated total damage was based on an average total inundated area of 150,000 ha.
The proposed project would yield an estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of about 17 percent for the
- 7 -



base case scenario (compared to ERR estimate of 15 percent at appraisal). The estimate is considerably
conservative in view of the fact that the project's significant positive impact on saving human lives and
improved public health, protection of the archeological sites, and the natural environment have not been
included as they are difficult to quantify. The ERR does not also include any benefits expected to accrue
from improved yields and more intensive agriculture program being promoted by the government.
A sensitivity analysis shows the estimated ERR to be robust. A 15 percent decrease in benefits, on account
of lower projected loss (cost avoided) in flood damage to property, infrastructure, and agricultural output,
lowers the economic rate of return to 13 percent. A 20 percent increase in operation and maintenance costs
would result in an ERR of about 16 percent. In the worst case scenario, a 15 percent decrease in benefits
combined with a 20 percent increase in O&M cost would result in an ERR of 13 percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional developntent itnpact:
Although the project objectives do not specifically address any institutional development, it is stated in the
appraisal report that such development would be achieved through:
* Strengtlhening the implementing agency's institutional capacity for executing the project and subsequent
operation and maintenance of created assets.
- Instituting a system for monitoring and evaluating projects.
* Providing an early flood warning and response plan and developing and implementing a resource
management plan.
Achievements of this component can be outlined as follows:
- The strengthening of the implementing agency was partly achieved through the execution of a training
program with special emphasis on operation and maintenance.
* The project implementation unit, assisted by a private consulting finn, successfully developed a system
for monitoring and evaluating project perfonnance which is expected to be institutionalized by the
implementing agency.
* The preparation and implementation of an early flood warning and response plan was initiated (yet to
be finalized) under the project. Once finalized and implemented by the Govemment, its objectives of
providing the proper set up, equipment and qualified staff to implement the plan are expected to be
achieved.
• A plan of the resource management program for a sustainable development of local resources and
prevention of environmental degradation and soil distress was prepared and approved by the Bank.
However, its implementation did not take place during project execution. Instead, the Ministry of
Energy following project completion is carrying out its implementation. Therefore objectives linked to
this program are likely to be achieved on a long -tenn basis subject to proper implementation of the
program.
In light of the above, it is concluded that the institutional development of project is modest. The most
notable institutional achievement was the training of staff of SBRWB and its regional offices on operation
and maintenance of flood protection works. However, despite the fact that a training program took place
under the project, an evaluation of its adequacy for securing satisfactory operation and maintenance of
created assets could not be finalized. A report to assess the effectiveness of the training and to propose the
organizational and staffing structure to carry out the O&M activities is yet to be submitted by the PIU.
Evidently, the physical construction alone is not sufficient to sustain long-tenn benefits and provide
effective  level of protection. Therefore, the Government's commitment to  institutionalize  the
- 8 -



implementation of nonstructural measures such as flood warning and emergency plan and resource
management program is vital for the sustainability of the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control oJ government or implementing agency:
These mainly refer to the occurrence of the flood in April 1998 damaging dikes under construction and
causing cost increases and delays in contracts' execution, unusually severe sandstonns causing disruption
of works for prolonged periods, and the failure of the contractor to deliver the rip-rap material in a timely
manner.
5.2 Factors genterally subject to government control:
In general, many of the delays arose through factors within Govemment control. These factors could be
outlined as follows:
* Delays in taking the steps needed to provide altematives to thie establishment of a -well functioning
project implementation unit (PIU). In spite of Bank's constant complaint of the incompetent PIU, weak
project management persisted for more than five years until the PIU was replaced and assigned to a
private consulting firm in 1998.
• Under contracts for the dikes along the Niatak river, delays occurred in obtaining clearance from the
Forestry department for right of way and in acquiring or borrowing areas for construction. Delays also
occurred in securing approval for an increase of the foreign exchange component.
*Delays in advance payments due to cumbersome govermnent procedures.
*Delays in granting licenses to contractors for import of machinery and spare parts.
* Lack of decisive action concerning the advance payments. The advance payment is made to contractors
in Rials using an exchange rate stipulated in respective contracts, which is different from and lower
than the Tehran Stock Exchange rate ("the market rate"). However, subsequent deductions made for
repayment of the advance payment are done based on the Tehran Stock Exchange rate. This procedure
resulted in larger amounts of Rials, than originally paid as advance payment , had to be repaid by
conitractors. Contractors complained and requested that the amounts received and deducted should be
the same. Although this issue was consistently addressed during Bank supervision missions, it was not
resolved at the closing of the Bank loan.
* Problems encountered in payments of the foreign currency components. This is mainly due to the
difference between the contract exchange rate and that is issued by the Tehran Stock Exchange. Bank
disbursements in US$ for payments of the foreign currency component were converted by the Central
Bank to the Rial amount using the conversion rates stipulated in the contracts which were far lower
than the Tehran Stock Exchange rate. This implies that The US$ amount that has been disbursed has
been higher than what would have been the case had the Tehran Stock Exchange rate been applied.
Moreover, foreign currencies have not been made available for importing equipment and spare parts,
whiich instead had to be procured in the local market at higher prices.
5.3 Factors generally stibject to il7zpleinenting agency control:
These factors could be summarized as follows:
. Early actions that should have been taken to achieve improvements in project management through the
appointment of qualified staff in the PMU, as well as practicing better delegation of responsibilities.
* Due to the significant delays encountered in implementing the physical component, the implementing
agency directed its efforts to overcome the challenges related to the physical component but failed to
put enough emphasis on the training program and Flood Warning and Emergency Plan (FWEP). The
training program should have been initiated earlier, delaying its initiation affected the overall capacity
-9-



building of the staff of SBRWB including the development of appropriate staffing and organizational
structures for operation and maintenance. Likewise, delays in initiating the FWEP held up the
procurement of measurements instruments and monitoring equipment.
* Delays that were faced in the delivery of construction sites.
* Delays that occurred in the introductioni of monitoring and evaluation systems to tackle issues and
provide solutions in a timely manner.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The Loan Agreement was amended one year after effectiveness and before any contracts were awarded.
Originally, only foreign expenditures were to be financed by the loan, which was revised to additionally
include financing of local expenditures distributed at 60% for works, 70% for equipment procured locally;
and 100% for equipment procured intemationally, and 100% for consulting services and training.
Contract sums were significantly revised during the course of works execution due to: (i) extension of
contracts' completion dates with cost over-run due to price adjustments; (ii) deductions or reductions in
scope of works; and (iii) revisions in design, particularly regarding material for slope protection.
In the project design "floating exchange rate" was set to be used throughout project preparation. The
exchange rates stipulated in the contract documents were those decided by the Government and were
consistently lower than the Tehran Stock Exchange rate. As a result, various exchange rates were stipulated
in thie contracts depending on the timing of contract award reflecting their cost in the local market. However,
disbursement from Tehran Central Bank was based on the Teheran Stock Exchange rate, which varied
between 3015 to 8110 Rials/USSI. This implies that the Central Bank benefited from the difference between
the contracts's and the Tehran Stochk Exchange rates.
Final project costs amounts to US$ 75.06 million equivalent compared with the SAR estimate of US$ 100.0
million. The Bank financed US$ 53.69 (71%), and the Govenmment contributed about 21.37 million (29%).
This was higher than the figures estimated at appraisal (57%- Bank; 43% Goverrnent) mainly due to that
fact that Bank financed additionally a percentage of local expenditures that was not envisaged at appraisal.
Despite amendments made for disbursement rates and the addition of quite significant variation orders
during project implementation, a balance of Bank loan of US$ 3.31 million remained undisbursed mainly
due to three main factors. The first is the fact that the cost of the physical investment component, that was
not based on the detail design, was initially over-estimated. The second is the delays in the execution of the
FWEP with Bank financing being replaced by local financing. The third is the fact that the cost of RMP
turned out to be lower than initially envisaged and it was financed completely by the Government unlike
what was expected at time of appraisal.
6. Sustainability
6. I Rationale/jon sustainahdilitj. rating:
The sustainability of investments is subject to (i) the appropriateness of design, technical specifications.
and applied standards; (ii) the quality of construction works; (iii) the provision of adequate and appropriate
operation and maintenance machinery and equipment; (iv) the establishinent of a well functioning operation
and maintenance Wuit staffed by qualified people; and (v) availability of funds for routine maintenance and
for major repair works.
Moreover, sustainability of investments will also depend on the extent to which investmenits made under tlhe
project will be integrated with current and future investments as identified under the Resource Management
Program.
- 10 -



The proper utilization of investments will be subject to: (i) the development and implementation of
applicable flood waming and emergency systems; (ii) the installation of adequate instrumentation for
measurements and warnings; and (iii) the introduction of appropriate procedures to be applied in case of
emergencies.
An evaluation of the prospects of sustainability/utilization could thus be summarized as follows:
. The project was well conceived and the quality of works is satisfactory.
* The provision of machinery and equipment is adequate for future operation and maintenance.
• The GOI is committed to provide sufficient funds on annual basis for proper operation and
maintenance (O&M) of all flood protection facilities in the project area. (7.0 billion Rial was allocated
for the year 2000- 2001 and 21 billion Rial for the year 2001- 2002). The required budget for O&M
was derived from the assessment of costs incurred each year on repair and routine and preventive
maintenance of similar assets. The quality of staffing for operation and maintenance and the adequacy
of staffing and organizational structures cannot be assessed at this stage. Nevertheless, the overall
performance of the SBRWB would, in the opinion of the Bank team supervising the project, seem to be
satisfactory.
- The development and implementation  of flood wamning and emergency  systems including
instrumentation to be installed did not take place under the project. However, the Govemment is
committed to finalize and implement the study using its own financial resources. Its commitment is
proved by sending the mid-term report of the study to the Bank after project closing.
* The impact of the Resource Management Plan can not be assessed at this stage. Although a plan,
acceptable to the Bank was formulated, its implementation was not within the scope of the project;
SBRWB is implementing the it using its own resources. This Plan provides measures for sustainable
development of local resources and the prevention of enviromnental degradation and social distress.
In spite of the uncertainty mentioned above, the ICR concludes that the sustainability and proper utilization
of investments made under the project are likely.
6.2 Transition arrungement t(J regular operations:
There will be no specific transition arrangement, but the operation and maintenance capacity has been
gradually built up through training for reaching adequate efficiency.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The ICR considers the Bank's overall perfonnance during preparation to be satisfactory. The Bank
responded promptly to the Government's request for financing an emergency flood protection project in the
Sistan- Baluchistan area with timely project identification in 1991. In addition, the Bank team, which had a
good skill mix, provided significant input in project design by providing the framework and ten-ns of
reference of studies and activities needed to ensure sustainability and capacity building. On the other hand,
the appraisal, which was done in March of 1992, was somehow premature, as attested to by the fact that
design changes and delays in the execution of the contracts occurred during implementation. During
project appraisal, the Bank assessed most of the project's risks and benefits, but overlooked risks in
disbursement. Hence, the project design did not identify measures nor proposed solutions on how to handle
issues on foreign exchange rate, which caused problems during the execution of relevant contracts. In
conclusion, while expediting project processing did not lead to early project implementation as originally
envisaged, the project was successfully completed with most of its projected development objectives
- 11 -



attained.
7.2 Supervision:
Expediting project processing created subsequent complications that had to be tackled during project
supervision. The start-up problems, referred to above, have generally been resolved satisfactorily over tine
with adequate and consistent Bank supervision. The project was extended by 2.5 years covering a total of 9
years from signing to closing. This extension resulted in delays of the capital flows to the country, delays in
achieving the development benefits , and additional cost to the borrowers with respect to commitment fees.
The number of supervision missions was 17 (on average 2 missions annually). Aide-Memoires were
regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Government and Bank Management to problems with
project execution and suggested remnedies in a timely manner. The Fonn 590s and Project Status Reports
(PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of developmenit
objectives and progress in implementation. Bank supervision missions had to handle significant issues
related to:
*  Dealing with inefficient PIUs and assisting the Borrower in the restructuring thereof until a unit
capable of dealing with the tasks involved was created in 1998.
* Contractors that stopped working for various reasons.
*  The termination of two contracts with one contract being re-tendered.
*  Significanit revisions in design causing variation orders and the developmenit of a new approach on
slope protection.
* Advance payments, various exchange rates for foreign currency, and adjustments in foreign currency
rates under the proceeds of the loan.
In 1997, the project was on the verge of suspension or tennination. Bank staff worked closely with the
Govenmment and the PIU and provided them with extensive assistance to get the project back on track and
ensure successful completion. Therefore, Bank perfonnance during supervision is considered satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank perfbrinance:
The project was eventually implemented substantially as designed. Its outcomes are likely to be sustainable,
despite the shortcomings in project preparation. Therefore, the ICR considers the Bank's overall
perfonnance to be satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During an identification mission in August 1991, an agreement was reached on the composition of the
project and on an action plan for project preparation. A master plan was submitted to a Bank preparation
mission in January 1992, which provided the basis for appraisal in March 1992. The borrower conducted,
satisfactorily, feasibility studies for aLI civil works contracts. Furthermore, the borrower prepared an
environmental impact assessment and mitigation plan of the project, which was in accordance to World
Bank Operational Directive 4.01 for Category B projects. On the other hand, detail design with preparation
of tender documentation was carried out on an ongoing process during 1992-1994 with first contract
awards taking place during 1994. This delay in finalizing the detailed designs resulted in significant design
changes during project's execution. Despite this shortcoming, the ICR considers the overall performance of
the borrower during preparation to be satisfactory.
7.5 Governinent in7plententation perforwmance.
This refers to the following govenmment authorities:  The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
(MEF); the Ministry of Energy (MOE); the Planning and Budgeting Office, and the Central Bank of Iran
- 12 -



(CBI). The Government consistently maintained its commitment throughout the implementation. The
project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems. The government agencies had to tackle
significant issues with limited experience in Bank procedures. Issues encountered on the exchange rates
and on the provision of Bank guarantees for advance payments under foreign exchange components seemed
to be unprecedented.   The MEF and MOE, however, were most supportive in facilitating project
implementation and their contributions were essential for reaching project completion. Hence, the ICR finds
the Government's performance to be satisfactory.
7.6 Imnplementing Agency:
This refers to: the Sistan-Baluchistan Regional Water Board (SBRWB); the project Implementation Unit
(PIU); Local and International consultants that were mainly responsible for project preparation and
supervision. The performance of the SBRWB and the PIU before 1997 fell short of expectations,
manifested by the delay in physical construction and slow disbursement which reached only 5% at the time
of the midterm review, as opposed to the projected figure of 73% in the SAR.
In 1997, a new manager for SBRWB was assigned. Through his intervention, the PIU was totally
restructured in 1998 which provided a new momentum. Through an action-oriented approach, project
execution got started anew. The local consultant provided services for both project preparation and
construction supervision and has thus represented the continuity under the project in view of the different
clhanges that occurred under project management. This PIU showed flexibility in dealing with its various
tasks including addressing the problem of the lack of delivery of the rip-rap material by adopting the lean
sand asphalt (LSA) as feasible alternative. Therefore, the overall performance of the implementing agency
is rated satisfactory.
7. 7 Overall Borro)wer per formance.
The Government showed unstinting commitment to the project throughout its preparation and
Implementation.
Furthermore, to ensure sustainability of assets built under the project, the Government allocated an O&M
budget of 7.0 billion Rials for the calendar year 2000-2001. Additionally, the Government pledged 21.0
billion Rials for O&M  budget for the year 2001- 2002. The ICR considers the overall borrower's
performance to be satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons from the project are:
. Detailed designs for at least the first year activity program should be available at entry: detailed
designs and tender documents must be ready at the time the loan becomes effective so that construction
activities start without delay. The Bank and the Borrower should resist pressure to bring project to Board
before its preparation is complete. A perceived need for urgency should not justify any shortcuts in
project processing and preparation. The experience from this project renders it necessary to restate that
insufficient preparation of the design of the physical component will affect the progress of most of other
project components. The Bank and the implementing agency had to attend to the complications of
insufficient project preparation during implementation.
. Detailed assessment needs to be carried out to check the feasibility of technical options: had the
ability, or lack thereof, of local contractors to deliver the rip-rap material been carefully assessed, the
change of technology for protecting dikes during project implementation would have been avoided.
- 13-



* Implementation arrangement: relying on consultants with proper contractual incentives to perform, is
an effective option for smooth project implemnentation and management.
* Disbursement arrangement: in a country with limited experience in working with the Bank, detailed
procedures, procurement, and disbursement, need to be clarified in a Financial Management Plan that is
part of a detailed Project Implementation Manual.
* Exchange rate: The Government of Iran disburses the Bank Loan only in local currency (Iranian Rials).
Therefore, to link Bank disbursements to a specific exchange rate that had little relevance to that of the
Tehran stock exchange had a negative impact. It should have been covenanted that Bank disbursements
in US$ for the foreign component of each contract ought to be linked to the Tehran stock exchange rate.
* Implementation of the non-physical components: During preparation of a project, the Bank should
emphasize the significance of the timely implementation of the "non-physical" comnponents. This can be
undertaken by setting forth a number of incentives to their timely implementation and defining
responsibilities in a detailed action plan covering the institutional and financial aspects related to the
project. In the case of this project, the Borrower's commitment to implement the institutional component
was far beloxv that of implementing the civil works componenet The delav in initiating activities of tlhe
institutional component resulted in a modest achievement of the related development objectives.
Therefore, implementation of such an actioni plan should start as soon as possible in order to ensure the
sustainability of the investments by the project closing date.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrovver/impleinewming agenzc'v.
A signed copy of the partner's comments is in the project file.
I. The most serious problem encountered during the implementation was the problem of foreign currency
payment to the contractors, which still continues to be a great pressure upon the shoulders of
implementing agency.
2. According the Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section I, Part A, Para. 1, goods and works were to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
3. According to the Paras. 2.20 to 2.29 of the mentioned "Guidelines", the following procedures have
been adopted in preparing tender documents and implementation of civil works:
*    In bidding documents for works, the Borrower required bidders to state the bid price entirely in
the Borrower's currency, along with the requirements for foreign currency payments expressed
as a percentage of the bid price for each such foreign currency. The Borrower required bidders
to use exchange rates specified in the bidding documents i.e. the official rate 28 days before
tendering (see Para 2.21 to 2.23 of the Guidelines).
*    Payment of the contract price had to be made in the currency or currencies in which the bid price
is stated in the bid of the successful bidder (see 2.25 of the Guidelines).
*    Bidding documents specified the payment method and tenns offered. The method of payment
took into account the available procedures for withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan. The
Bank agreed to made direct payment to contractor, at the Borrower's specific disbursemnenit
request for each payment.
- 14 -



4. But the payments directly made to be Iranian contractors by the Bank at the Borrower's request, had to
be first converted into Iranian Rials by the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) and then paid to the
Contractors. The exchange rate adopted by the CBI was originally around 3000 Rials per U.S. Dollar
which continued up to September 1998, and then the Tehran Stock Exchange Rate was adopted by
CBI, which was first around 5000 Rials per Dollar, rapidly increased, within less than one year to
around 8000 Rials per Dollar. This was the main driving force behind the rapid progress of Project
implementation after late 1998.
5. However, the contractors were and are not completely satisfied, since they believe that, according to
Bank's procedure mentioned in tender documents, the payment of the contract price should be made in
the currencies in which the bid price is stated. I.e. some percent in US $ and the rest in Iranian Rials.
They did not want their foreign currency payments be converted to Rials by CBI using Tehran Stock
Rate, while they were purchasing their equipment and spare parts in local market with the rate of
12000-15000 Rials per Dollar. The contractors (except one of them) never got required pennission to
import what they needed.
6. Why CBI converted the Bank's payments to Iranian Rials? Because according to Iranian law, no
Iranian contractor is entitled to receive a payment in any currency other than in Rials, except for
importing. But getting the import permit was a tedious and extremely difficult job, and hardly a
contractor succeeded in that.
7. Now, what makes the above practice of payment looks like a nightmare is the fact that, Tehran Stock
Exchange Rate reached to 8000 Rls/US$ while the fixed exchange rate written in contract documents
was either 1750 or 3000 Rls/US$, which was the CBI official rate during the time of tendering. On the
other hand, if due to inflation etc. such a drastic increase in exchange rate of dollar has not been
happeniing in our country, no problem would have been raised. Many authorities now think that the
contractors have been overpaid by many folds, since they only compare the rate 8000 with 1750
Rls/US$. While the whole story is completely different and the contractors have been in fact
under-paid, since they could not directly received their foreign currencies, not yet mentioning of the
advance payment issue which is another consequence of the said exchange rate problem.
8. In a country with increasing foreign currency exchange rate and limited experience in working with the
Bank detailed disbursement procedure, the disbursement arrangement and mood of payment to the local
contractors, need to be clarified in every angle with relevant authorities of the Borrowinig country, prior
to the Loan being awarded by the Bank. This may be the only way of preventing the consequences,
this implementing agency is facing now.
(h) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other pa,-tuers (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of pertinent project documents can befound in Anlex 7.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
1. Rehabilitate and upgrade about 100 KM of                                 Flood protection has been achieved for
dikes along the eastern shore of the Hirmand                                concerned areas.
Lake.
2. Rehabilitate and upgrade about 130 KM of                                 Flood protection has been achieved for
dikes along both sides of the Sistan River.                                 concemed areas.
3. Upgrade about 30 KM of dikes along the                                   Flood protection has been achieved for
Niatak floodway.                                                            concerned areas.
4. Remodel the feeder canal to three existing                               Required discharge capacity of the feeder
storage reservoirs.                                                         canal has been provided for, which will
mitigate peak floods and ensure rapid filling
up of the water reservoirs.
5. Develop a rock quarry for rip-rap material.                              A rock quarry was developed but later closed
because of inadequate capacity of the
contractor. Its potential use for other
purposes is uncertain.
6. Strengthen project management and                                        Institutional strengthening of project
support.                                                                    management was partly achieved.
Satisfactory operation and maintenance are
expected through provided training.
7. Undertake physical and mathematical                                      The modeling excercise was carried out to
modeling works for river training and                                       decide on the extent to which slope protection
operation and maintenance.                                                  was required and the sections of the rivers
where training works were to be carred out.
8. Provide maintenance equipment and                                        Procured vehicles and equipment will enable
vehicles, a maintenance workshop and a                                      proper operation and maintenance of created
laboratory for testing materials.                                           facilities.
9. Provide a program for flood waming and                                   In progress. The impact of the flood waming
emergency response and for resource                                         and emergency response can only be
management to address environmental,                                        evaluated at a later date.
cultural property and social concems in the
project area.
- 16-



Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Rehabilitate and upgrade about 100 km of 70 km of dikes                  67 km of dikes have been upgraded.
dikes along the eastem shore of Hirmand
lake.
2. Rehabilitate and upgrade about 130 km of 50 km of dikes                  105 km of dikes have been
dikes along both sides of the Sistan river.                                 upgradediconstructed.
3. Upgrade about 30km of dikes along the   20 km of dikes                   30 km of dikes have been upgraded.
Niatak floodway.
4. Remodel the feeder canal to three existing Completed                     The feeder canal has been widened and
storage reservoirs.                                                         deepened.
5. Develop a rock quarry for rip-rap material. Closed                        A rock quarry was developed but
subsequently closed.
6. Strengthening project management and   Done                               An evaluation report on the implementation
support including the maintenance unit.                                     of a training program yet to be submitted.
7. Undertake physical and mathematical    80%                               Modeltng exercise has been carried out and
modeling works for river training and                                       final report has been submitted.
operation and maintenance.
8. Provide maintenance equipment and  In progress                           Equipment and vehicles have been delivered.
vehicles, a maintenance workshop and a
laboratory for testing materials.
9. Provide a program for flood waming and  In progress                      Program for flood warning and emergency
emergency response and for resource                                         response still to be submitted. Program for
management to address environmental,                                        resource management has been submitted.
cultural property and social concerns in the
project area.
End of project
Figures in the second column of Output/Impact Indicators are rough estimates given by the project team at the last supervision
mission.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
1. Civil Works                                       77.60          57.94             75
2. Goods (Equipments & Vehicles)                      6.30            6.02             96
3. Project Management & Tech. Assist.                 8.70           10.27            118
4. Flood Warning & Emergency Plan (FWEP)              3.10            0.11            3 6
5. Resources Management Program (RMP)                 2.60            0.06            2.3
6. Land Acquisition                                   0.66            0.66            100
Total Baseline Cost                                  98.96           75.06
j  Total Project Costs     ]   998.96           75.06
t   Total Financing Required     i   98.96           75.06
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)    __
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                                1
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost]
1. Works                     57.00         20.60         0.00          0.00         77.60
(38.40)       (6.50)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (44.90)
2. Goods                      5.00          0.00          1.30         0.00         6.30
(4.50)        (0.00)       (1.20)        (0.00)       (5.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         14.40         0.00         14.40
Proj. Management & Tech.     (0.00)        (0.00)        (6.40)       (0.00)       (6.40)
Assist., Flood Warning &
Emergency Plan (FWEP),
and Resources
Management Program
(RMP)
4. Land Acquisition           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     62.00         20.60         15.70         0.00         98.3(J
l_______________________    (42.90)       (6.50)        (7.60)        (0.00)       (57.0C)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                      _ C
Expenditure Category          Ica             NCB            Other          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          43.61           14.33           0.00           0.00           57.94
(35.72)         (9.40)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (45.12)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.00            6.02           0.00           6.02
(0.00)         (0.00)          (6.02)         (0.00)         (6.02)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00            10.44          0.00           10.44
Proj. Management & Tech.          (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.55)          (0.00)         (2.55)
Assist., Flood Warning &
Emergency Plan (FWEP),
and Resources
Management Program
(RMP)                                                                                                   -
4. Land Acquisition                0.00           0.00            0.00           0.66           0.66
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)    j   (0.00)
Total                          43.61           14.33           16.46          0.66           75.06
(35.72)         (9.40)          (8.57)         (0.00)        (53.69)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
InclUdes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracteci staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs relatcd to (i)
managinig the prqoect, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisail
Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate     |     ngeo G
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
I. Civil Works            44.90      32.70                 45.12      12.82               100.5   39.2
Goods (Equipment &         5.70       0.60                 6.02        0.00               105.6   0.0
'Vehicles)
3. Project Management &    3.90       4.80                 2.49        7.78               63.8   162.1
Tech. Assist.
4. Flood Warning &         1.80       1.30                 0.06        0.05                3.3    3.8
Emergency Plan (FWEP)
5. Resources Management    0.70       1.90                 0.00        0.06                0.0    3.2
Program (RMP)
6. Land Acquisition        0.00       0.00                 0.00        0.66                0.0    0.0
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Analysis
The Proiect Area
1.    The project is located in the Sistan region in the Sistan-Baluchistan Province on the south-eastern
side of Iran. The region is inhabited mostly by Baluchis, a minority group and household incomes in the
area are substantially lower than those for the country as a whole. This project is part of the government's
strategy to provide assistance to underprivileged population and fight environmental degradation in the
region.
Proiect Benefits
2.     The project would benefit about 200,000 people living in the Sistan river flood plain. The main
project benefits are: (a) reduced risks to damage to public and private property and infrastructure; (ii)
protection of habitats and cultural property (significant archeological treasures and the relics of the oldest
civilization); (iii) increased sense of security against the inundation of large tracts of agricultural land
leading to increased stability of fann families and increased income levels. Other projects benefits, but
which are non-quantifiable, include the reduced risk of loss of human lives, reduced health risks and
reduced suffering of people left homeless. Without the project, inundations by floods would continue to
cause major damage to property and infrastructure and losses in human lives and environmental conditions
would continue to deteriorate .
Economic Analysis
3.     The economic analysis compares the estimated investment and maintenance costs of rehabilitating
and upgrading flood control works and the associated early warning and monitoring programs of the project
to the expected benefits accruing as a result, with both costs and benefits expressed in economic terms.
Details on the calculation of cost and benefit streams and assumptions for the calculation of the economic
rate of return and sensitivity analysis are as follows:
4.     Economic Costs streams. The cost streams consist of civil works and costs of land acquisition,
design and supervision, technical assistance and training and flood warning and emergency response
programs and the cost of equipment, operating and maintenance of the works. The project's investment
and operation and maintenance costs were converted to economic costs by deducting taxes and custom
duties and local cost component converted by using standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85. The
economic life of the works is estimated at 50 years.
5.     Exchange rate used is the Tehran Stock Exchange rate prevailing in the open market during the
period of project implementation. The figures taken are yearly averages calculated based on weighted
monthly rates. A discount rate of 12 percent is taken to reflect the opportunity cost of capital in Iran. The
construction period is eight years during which annual benefits due to partially completed flood works has
been included in the benefit stream. Full benefit is realized immediately following completion of flood
protection works where the project is in full operation and annual benefit stream is expected to remain
constant. .
- 20 -



6.    Estimation of Project Benefits. The economic benefits are measured in terms of the avoidance
and/or reduction in frequency of flood damages and operation and maintenance costs that would occur
without the flood protection works. The total damages with and without project have been estimated based
on technical parameters on flows, probability of occurrence, probability of standard breach damage. For
the "with "and "without" project conditions, the damage frequency relationships was calculated and annual
damages estimated in million Rials. Damage frequency relationships were converted to average annual
annualized benefits accruing from protection of flood damages (to evenly distribute the risk of flooding
over the life of the project) expected for all levels of flooding in any given year. The estimated total damage
was based on a total inundated area of 150,000 ha. .
7.     Flood damages principally comprise of damages to standing crops, private housing, infrastructure,
livestock and other facilities. Flood damage to standing crops have been estimated based on depth,
duration, depth and time of flooding, flood susceptibility of each crop and other technical parameters. The
estimated monthly economic value of potential yield loss is based on the expected economic farm gate
gross revenue minus on-falm costs.
Crop production budgets with monthly net potential flood losses (during February to June where discharges
are maximum) are estimated and based on monthly probability of flooding, the crop losses per hectare
flooded and total damages per hectare flooded have been calculated. Damages per hectare reflect net
potential flood loss estimates by crop by month. .
8.    Crop losses per hectare flooded in the project area were obtained and based on the probability of
flood occurring, the total weighted damages per hectare are estimated. Damage per hectare reflect net
potential loss estimates by crops.  The estimated crop losses also includes the value of improved crop
yields due to flood control works and more intensive agriculture, expected to increase in real terms by
about 5 percent annually up to the completion of works.
9.    The damage estimate for private housing and infrastructure were calculated by considering the type
and value of houses damaged (eg. baked houses have their outside walls bounded with cement) and type of
road, density and unit repair cost . Based on the damage cost per hectare, the total damage for the project
area as a whole is calculated. Other direct losses (damages to dykes, irrigation infrastructure, water supply
livestock, electrical distribution system, telecomnmunication, etc.) are estimated assuming a ratio of 1:1.3 of
Project area damages which is considered conservative estimate compared with the ratio of 1:1.34 and 1.14
ratios recorded for 1982 and 1991 floods respectively. Indirect Damages. due to suspension (interruption)
of irrigation supplies and traffic as well as the cost of emergency response programs to help the affected
population are estimated at 20 percent of the total cost of direct damages. The annualized total damages
"with "and "without" project are estimated in Rls millions and the average annual reduction is flood
damages is the difference between pre and post project average annual damages.
Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
10.   The proposed project would yield an estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of about 17
percent for the base case scenario (compared to ERR estimate of 15 percent at appraisal). The estimate is
considerably conservative in view of the fact that the project's impact on human lives and health, on
archeological sites, and on the natural environment are not quantified. The ERR does not also include any
benefits expected to be accrued from improved yields and more intensive agriculture program being
promoted by the govemment.
I.    A sensitivity analysis shows the estimated ERR to be robust in that al5 percent decrease in
benefits on account of lower growth in expected crop productivity decreases the economic rate of retum to
- 21 -



13 percent. A 20 percent increase in operation and maintenance costs would result in an ERR of about 16
percent. In a worst case scenario, a 15 percent increase in benefits combined with a 20 percent increase in
O&M cost results in an ERR of 13 percent.
Table 1. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(million Rials)
Year             Capital Costs    0 & M Costs       Total Cost       Project Benefits
(1)              (2)               _       _(2)
1993             2.378                             2,378               0
1994            8,354                              8,354             3,540
1995             7,998                             7,998             8,700
1996            26,481                             26,481           14,370
1997            10,294                             10,294           20,630
1998            46,971             873             47,844           27,430
1999            63,767            2,911            66,678           34,920
2000            131,591           5,458            137,049          43,030
2001            151,479           6,840            158.319           51,860
2002               0              7,277             7,277           61,530
2003                              7,277             7,277           61,530
2004                              7,277             7,277           61,530
2005                              7,277             7,277            61,530
2006                              7,277             7,277            61,530
2007                              7,277             7,277            61,530
2008                              7,277             7,277            61,530
2009                              7,277             7,277           61,530
2010-50                             7,277            7,277            61,530
Economic Rate of Return: 17 percent.
Sensitivity Test
ERR
Base Cost                                                      17%
Benefit (-15%)                                                 13%
0 & M (+20%)                                                   16%
Benefit (-15%) and O&M cost (+20%)                             13%
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation  Developmeilt
______________________  Month/Year    Count  _      Specialty                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/92                          1   Sanitary Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/92                            1   Sanitary Engineer
Supervision                                     j
2/931 SaiayEgne
9/93                            1   Sanitary Engineer
8/94                            I   Sanitary Engineer
9,'94                           1   Sanitary Engineer
4/95                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
7/96                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
6/97                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
I 1/97                          2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
2/98                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
9.98                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
12/98                           2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
6/99                            2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
1/2000                          2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
7/2000                          2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
11/2000                         2   Sanitary Engincer, Financial
6/2001                               Analyst
|   6/2001                      ' |2 Sanitary Engineer, Financial
Analyst
ICR         7/2001                           I
(   7/2001                     2 '  J Financial Analyst, Sanitary
Engineer
_      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
These are missions for which BTOS and PSRs are available. According to Borrower's ICR, more missionis
for the Sistan Project took place combined with other missions.
- 23 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                           Acttial/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                           N/A                        151,009.34
Slpervision                                     N/A                        319,630. 11
ICR
Total                                                            _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macropolicies                            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
La Physical                                O H  * SU O M  O N  ( NA
El Financial                               O H  0 SU O M  O N  * NA
El Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Environnmental                           0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU O M  ( N  * NA
El Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
a Public sector management                     H       SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
C Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU    A M  0 N  0 NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. I Bank performance                                 Rating
E Lending                                             O HS OS OU O HU
L-I Supervision                                       O HS * S   O' U  C HU
r  Overall                                            O HS * S  0  U  ' HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
L Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Government implementation performance              0 HS I S   0  U  0 HU
LImplementation agency performance                 OHS OS   OU  QHU
- Overall                                             OHS OS  O  U  Q HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7a: Mid-term review aide-memoire
Ainnex 7b: Aide-Memoire from ICR mission (July 2001):
Annex 7c: Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report.
The following documents and information pertaining to the Sistan River Flood Rehabilitation Project are
available:
* Memorandum of the President
* Loan Agreement
*   Amendment to Loan Agreement
*   Interim Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Iran
* Back-to-Office Reports
* Project Supervision Reports
*   Various Projcct Progrcss Rcports
*   Progress Report on the Sistan Flood Warning and Emergency Plan
*   Summary of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plan
*   women's employment Issues in Contemporary Iran: Problems and prospects in the 1990s
*   Borrower's lImplementation Completion Report
- 27 -



Annex 7a
Mid-Tenr review Aide-memoire
The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: IN¶S aAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            U.S.A.                     Cable Address: IN I _VAS
September 12, 1996
H. E. Mr. M. Ghassemi
Senior Vice Minister
Ministry of Energy
Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran
Subject Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3478-IRN)
Supervision and Mid-Term Review, June 22 - July 10. 1996
Dear Mr. Ghasserni,
I would like to express my appreciation for the warm welcome extended by yourself
and your staff to the recent Bank mnission led by Mr. Mohammed Benouahi and myself anJ
joined by Mr. Rene Costa, Project Advisor.
I wish to confirm the content of the aide-memoire (copy attached) left in the field ancL
wish to take the opportunity to reiterate its main points.
The mission has reviewed thoroughly with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) ani
the consultant all project components (see mid-term review report, Annex 2 of the aide-
memoire).
Civil works
Civil works contracts regarding this project have all been awarded, except one
(ICB Co-IA), which is expected to be signed shortly. However, implementation of
the civil works has been slow compared to the initial plan.
Institutional aspects
Progress of instirutional aspects is verv slow.
(a) Training: the training proeram is designed to strengthen the Sistan Baluchistan
Regional Water Board's capacity to monitor flood protection works. The training
component has not started yet. The PItT will present a new training package in
collaboration with the Power and Water Institute of Technology.
- 28 -.



M. Ghasseni                          -2-                    September 12, 191'6
(b) Flood Warning and Emergency Plan: the implementation of early flood
warnings and emergency evacuation is delayed until 1997, awaiting progress in the
execution of civil works.
(c) Resources Management Program: this is a study that deals with environrnental
issues and cultural heritage. This part of the project has already been implemented
by the Govermnent. The PIU will submiut to the Bank the consultant's work in this
area to ensure that environmental aspects of the project have been addressed.
(d) Project Management: the PIU in the field and in Tehran is responsible for
managing and monitoring all project activities, but has had difficulties in irnplementi-.g
both the civil works and the institutional aspects of the project according to initial
plan. It was agreed during the supervision mission that steps will be taken to speed uip
project implementation and we count on your support to achieve this objective.
Sincerely,
Arnir Al-Khafaji
Division Chief
Private Sector Development,
Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Departmnent
- 29 -



ATTACIMENT 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHIQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT ( LN 330 1-IRN)
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT (LN 3479-IRN)
SIASTAN RIVER FLOOD WORKS REHABILITATION PROJECT (LN 3478-RN)
GREATER TEHRAN SOLIID WASTE MANAGEMENT STUDY
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION OF JUNE 22 - JULY 10. 1996
AIDE - MEMOIRE
- 30 -



SISTA;N RIVER FLOOD WORKS
REHABILITATION PROJECT
22. The mission has reviewed thoroughly with the PM' and consultants aJI components of
the project for NMid-Term Review purpose. Annex 2 of this Aide-Memoire shows details of
the review and progress made to date. The project is pursuing most of the objectives set up
at appraisal:
(a) Rehabilitatiorn upgrading and relocating essental flood control works along the Sistan
River and Lake Hinnand and (b) Providing training for SBRWB staff. strengthening
institutional capacitv of SBRWB and PIFT in cam,ing out programs for flood warning and
cmcrgencv response. prevcnting enviromnental degradation and providing maintenance
equipment and technical assistance.
* Civil works
23.   The civil works contracts of all seven LCB contracts. as well as three ICB contracts
have been awarded. Only one ICB ( Co-lA ) is stil not signed and is expected to be
submited to World Bank- approval shorthl. Consuhtant's supervisory staff have been posted
at site in the field. Phvsical progress of the civil works has been slow ( about %9 of the
project ) despite the fact that all contracts. except one. have been signed and under
inplementation.
* Institutional aspects
-24.   Trainixh: The training program objective is to stengthen the SBRWR and its sub-
regonal office in Zabol in monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as maintenance and
repair of flood protection works in the project area. The training program has not started vet
The PILT is discussing at the present with the Powcr and Water Insfitute of Technology a full
package to be presented wiin two months to the Bank The original program to have the
consultant NESPAK responsible of this component is bcing disregarded. The mission
recomunends to speed up the im,plementation of the tining program during the two years.
25. Flood Warnir and Emcrgencv Plan: This program prMvides technical and other
faciities for earh flood wamings and emergency evacuation. The consultant has subnitted a
preirinary report for setting up a new recording station. The implementation of this
component is also delayed because of its link with progress made in the civil works. It is
plamned to start execution beginning of 1997.
26.   Resources ganagemcnt Pro   T: This proan is intended to deal with
environmental issues such as conservation of wetland, protection of land rcsources and
cultural heriuag. This component has been cared out by the "Sazeman-e-Onit- r-Sistan"
(SOS ) a Sistan Dcvelopmcnt Authority established in 1992. The PIU will submit, within
-31-



twvo months to the Bank work done bv SOS to make surm that environmental aspects of the
project have becn addressed.
27.   Project Management and Support ( PIMS ): The PMS component objective is to:
(i) Provide proper staffing and facilities particularly to the PIU. ( ii ) Optimize design and
maintenance of flood control and training vorks through mathematical modeling and. ( ii)
Technical assistance. Two mathematical models have been built and tested by the Ministry
of EncrM. Propcr model for Sistan Rivers and Floodwavs have been studied. PIrU needs to
tak-c necessarv steps to purchasc the model.
28.   The PIrU in the field and in Tchran has gone through various stages of lack of
managemcnt and coordination. Progress of the physical components have been slow despite
the fact that mosl contracts have been awarded. The insttutional components have also been
ven' slow. The mission had several mcetngs with the PR: and one with the Scnior Vice
linister about the implementation of the projcct as a whole and assurances were given that
decisions wil] be taken to better coordinate and implement the project during the coming two
years.
29.   Disbursements: Thc total amount disbursed up to the end of June 30, 1996 is US S
.  ilo    - .     g IQ.4q of the loan amount. Thc appraisal c.stiate at the same
period is US S 42 milion or 73.7%. It is estimated that disbursements wil be accelerated
durisii iremaining two vear of the project with US S 17 million for the second semester
of 1996. DetaIled infonmation is available in Annex 2.
- 32 -



Alnex 7b
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SISTAN RIVER FLOOD WORKS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LN 3478-IRN)
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION
June 23-25, 2001
AIDE - MEMOIRE
- 33 -



1. A World Bank Mission (the mission) -- Messrs. Mohammed Benouahi (Team Leader) and Lars
Rasmusson (Engineer) -- visited Iran from June 23-25, 2001 for a final review of progress made for
completing the Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project (SRFWRP). The mission met with
officials and representatives from: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF);  the
Sistan-Baluchistan Regional Water Board (SBRWB); the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the
SRFWRP; and the consultants and contractors. Field visit was made to the project area on June 23-24,
2001. The mission takes this opportunity to express its appreciation to all officials and their colleagues for
their assistance and hospitality extended to the mission during its stay in Iran. The Aide-memoire (A-M)
covers conclusions and agreements reached during the mission.
2. This mission also represents the conclusion of this project and provides a summary of project status at
the loan closing date, June 30, 2001. However, the Bank loan account will remain open through October
31, 2001, to enable remiiaining disbursements to be made for expenditures incunred prior to the loan closing
date.
3. Project status at the loan closing date is summarized as follows:
(a) Civil works contracts
All contracts have been completed with the following comments:
i C-OIA, Dikes Upstream Sistan River, to which a major variation order was added for connecting
reservoir Chanime 3 with Chanime 4, is scheduled for completion by end-July 2001;
- C-OIB, Dikes Downstream Sistan River, is scheduled for completion by end-July 2001. A refund from
the previous contractor of USS85,000, which contract was tenninated, has been effected and paid to the
Special Account; and
- C-lI1, Hormak Quarry, the long-standing issue on refunding of US$210,000 made under the Bank loan
through the advance payment was never resolved.  The contract was tenninated because of the
contractor's non-performance, which also necessitated a change in the design for slope protection.
(b) Provision of machinery and equipment
* Contracts under S-01 have been completed;
* All equipment under contracts S-02 has been shipped;
* Under contract S-03/1, the Bank mission gave its no-objection for award of contract for 6 station wagons
delivered by end-June 2001; and
* Delay has occurred regarding instruments proposed to be delivered under contract S-03/2, and this is now
scheduled for thie latter lhalf of 2001 to be paid in local funds. The delay was caused by lack of progress
under the Flood Waming and Emergency Plan.
(c) Flood Warning and Emergency Plan
This study has been delayed, mainly because of unsatisfactory perfonnance by the intemational consulting
finr, but is scheduled for completion during 2001 under local funding. The satisfactory finalization of this
Plan is a prerequisite for the proper utilization of investnents made. Relevant reports should be sent to the
Bank.
- 34 -



(d) Capacity development and training
Training is taking place as programmed, and PIU will by end-July 2001 submit to the Bank a report on
proposed organizational and staffing structures for operation and maintenance of works constructed under
the project, and how ongoing training efforts will ensure the development of adequate staff competence and
institutional capacity.
(e) Audit
An audit report for FY 2001 will be submitted by PIU to the Bank for review by end-August 2001.
(f) Disbursements
* Total withdrawal of the loan will not be realized leaving a remaining amount of about USS4 million;
* During the period up to October 31, 2001, 5% of retention money for works taken over under completed
contracts would be paid with remaining 5% to be converted into Bank guarantees to enable final Bank
payments; and
. An old issue remains on payment of contractors in "foreign currency", that relates to the conversion rate
to be applied. The PIU has authorized payments but these have not been effected by the Controller. The
mission continued to pursue this issue with the Government for reaching a satisfactory solution. The
mission also emphasized that authorized payments should be made without waiting for this issue to be
settled to ensure that disbursements will be made before closing of the Bank loan account.
(g) Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
The Government and PIU should start preparing the Borrower's contribution to the ICR with relevant
report to be submitted to the Bank by October 2001.
Conclusion
The project has after many difficulties reached a satisfactory completion with the main objectives
achieved.. Minor matters remain before the loan closing date, for which local funding is available.
Tehran, June 25, 2001
Mohamrnmed Benouahi
Team Leader
World Bank Mission
- 35 -



Annex 7c
Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project
Borrower Implementation Completion Report
Borrower's Inputs
Project Obiectives
The main objectives of the Project are:
(a) Reduce the risks to human life and prevent damage to public and private property and
infrastructure due to major floods.
(b) Minimize disruptions to the local economy.
(c) Provide protection against major floods for habitats and cultural property.
(d) Mitigate environmental degradation and health hazards caused by floods and ad hoc development
in the project area.
(e) Increased sense of security against the inundation of crops, houses and other properties for
cultivators in flood prone areas.
(f) Increased family income of the fanners due to protection of agricultural land and resulting in
improved standard of living stimulating more production with good physique.
(g) Improvement in the well-being and welfare of the inhabitants of the area.
Project Description
Design Flood. A design return period of 100 years has been adopted for the Sistan River Flood Works
Rehabilitation Project. The frequency analysis of amnual maximum peak discharges of Sistan River at its
head, using Gumbel Split on 1950-90 time series has shown the design discharge for 100-year flood at
head of Sistan river, just upstreatn of Feeder Canal as 2535 m3/sec. Keeping view this design discharge
and the safe discharging capacity of existing structures across the Sistan River and the already
constructed Zahak Floodway, a flood protection scheme has been selected and designed for Sistan river
flood control. The economic justification of the selected scheme has been examined and it was established
that the Project based on selected design flood is economically feasible and justified.
The Works and Procurement Arrangements of the Project. The procurement of civil works and the
non-structural components of the Project, have been carried out under different Contracts. In the
following, the different Contracts under each Project component are mentioned.
The Project Component as given in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
(A. l)  Improving the capacity of the existing 3.8 kIm.
(A.2)  Upgrading the 42 km Niatak River with the exception of the first 12 km reach of Niatak
floodway built with government funds.
(A.3)  Rehabilitation and Upgrading of dikes approximately 100 km along the eastemn shore of lake
Hirmand.
(A.4)  Upgrade the Sistan River 130 km flood protection dikes and providing training works.
(B)   Land Acquisition of land for rehabilitation flood control.
(C)    Project Management & Support: Provision of institutional strengthening of SBRWB and its sub
-z 36 -



regional office in Zabol consisting of:(i) Proper staffing and facilities for both the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), which will be responsible for construction management, monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) activities, as well as the special unit dedicated to the maintenance and
repair of flood protection works in the project area,(ii) Expatriate exports for the provision of
technical services, training, both on-the-job and abroad,(iii) Provision of physical and
mathematical optimizing design and maintenance of flood control and training works.
(D)   Flood Warning and Emergency Plan Provision of technical and institutional facilities for early
flood warning and emergency response and evacuation program:
(E)   Resources Management Program Provision of an area - wide resources management which will
address aspects associated with: the conservationi of wetland (lake Hinnand) and habits of plants
and animals and of cultural property, the protection of particularly fragile land resources, and the
sustainable development of the region.
(F)   Procurement of Equipment & Vehicles, Equipment for maintaining the Sistai River, Niatak
River and Floodway, and lake Hinnand flood protection works, improving the central workshop
located at Zahol, setting up a construction quality control lahoratory, and establishing facilities
for recording river flood and stage, as well as procuring vehicles and spare parts for new and
existing equipment.
During the planning stage, the cost estimation of the Project was carried out based on the official
exchange rate of foreign currency, equal to about 1400 Rials per U.S. Dollar. The total Project cost was
estimated at about Rls 139.7 billion (US $ 100.0 million equivalent), of which about Rls 79.2 billion (US
$ 57.0 million equivalent) or about 57 percent were foreign
Proiect Desin
Consultants' Services: SBRWB had appointed M/S Tehran Sahab Consulting Engineers (TSCE) of
Tehran, Iran, in association with M/S National Engineering Services Pakistan (NESPAK) as the Project
Consultants for planning, preparation of detailed designs and tender documents and construction
supervision of the Project. MIS Mahab Ghodss were general consultants to SBRWB for review of the
design reports of Project Consultanits. Mahab Ghodss completed their assignment in 1993.
The Project design started in December 1991 with the preparation of the planuning report. The local
consulting finn (TSCE) assisted by the expatriate experts from the foreign consultants (Nespak) carried
out the Project platning and design. The Mater Plalning Report, along with its Armex, Environinental
Report, were submitted in January 1992. The appraisal of the World Bank was finalized in March 1992,
and the Loan Agreement between the Govenmment of Islamic of Iran and the World Bank was signed in
June 1992.
Mobilization by the Project Consultants for detailed design and preparation of tender documents was
started in the middle of September 1992, and full mobilization was achieved by the third week of October
1992. In the following period various specialists and experts from TSCE as well as NESPAK including
other appropriate technical staff contributed to achieve the assigned tasks.
Upon award of Contracts and start of activities at the site, posting of field staff for resident supervision
was started in March 1994. One chief resident engineer, eight to twelve resident engineers and around
twenty to twenty six other staff comprising surveyors and technicians have been posted at the site, depend
on the number of Contracts under implementation at various times, simultaneously, by TSCE. The
Project Consultants performed all the construction supervising activities, preparing the progress reports,
establishing the so called High Supervisory Body (HSB) for developing monitoring and evaluation
program  and implementation  the M&E  program, modification  of designs, preparing all the
- 37 -



correspondences/reports addressed to the Bank.
Changes and Modifications in the Initial Design. During the implementation period, due to some
technical and contractual problems encountered, some variations were proposed and agreed upon by the
Bank, to make completion of Contracts' implementation possible. The main refinements, modifications
and changes in the original designs and Contracts are outlined below.
1)   The variation of the quantities of works (actually implemented vs. the provision made in
Contracts), to some extent, were anticipated, as is the case with all common civil works contracts.
2)   In spite of all efforts made by PIU, Consultants' and the Bank to accelerate production of stone
materials in Quarry (Contract C-I 1), it was concluded that this Contract could not satisfy the
requirements on stone production. Thus the proposal of tenninating this Contract was agreed by
the Bank and the Contract C- I l wvas terminated in December 199S.
3)   One major change was adopting the asphalt revetment in place of riprap protection on the lake
dikes. The World Bank accepted the proposal of using lean sand asphalt (LSA) revetment in lake
dikes (i.e. in Contracts C-02 and C-03) provided that further investigation of durability and
endurance of LSA be perfonned to ensure its stability in adverse climatic conditions of the Sistan
Plain. To fulfill this requirement, PIU engaged several laboratory investigations and based on the
results obtained in these studies, use of LSA  revetnent proved justified. The laboratory
investigations included the studies carried out by Water Research Center, Research Institute of
Petroleum Industry, and Sharif University Cooperative Research Group. TSCE studied the precise
coverage of LSA revetmen-t by the mathematical modeling.
4)   The proposals of eliminating Adimi Branch Structure (as was mentioned in SAR under the
component of Sistan river training works) and dividing the Sistan River Dikes Contract (Contract
C-01) into two smaller Contracts, namely Contracts C-0]A and C-0IB, covering the upstream and
downistream reaches of the river, respectively, were submitted even before starting implementation,
that is during detailed design phase, and were approved by the Bank.
5)   Around 33 km of dikes (namely, Takht-e-Edmlat dikes) in the Posht-Ab area of Hamun-e-Hirmand
dike of the Contract C-02, was proposed to be eliminated. This part of the dike falls completely
inside the lake touching Afghan border and due to the political situation, it construction did no
longer seem feasible. The Bank approved the proposal of eliminating the above-mentioned dike.
6)   Considering the saving made by eliminating the Takht-e-Edalat dikes in Contract C-02, and
eliminating the riprap covering in Contracts C-02 and C-03 (except the length of 3.6 kin dike witlh
riprap revetment constructed using the stone material produced under Contract C-1 I prior to its
tenrniation), it proved possible to cover the outer slope of the whole length of the dikes under
Contracts C-02 and C-03 with one layer of LSA protection. Further, based on the results obtained
by mathematical and physical modeling, the second layer of OSA revetment was to be constructed
in more critical reaches of the lake dike (in Contract C-02) above the first LSA layer.
7)   As mentioned in (6) above, the lower unit cost of the LSA revetment, compared to the unit cost of
the riprap covering, enabled protection of the whole length of the outer slope of tlle lake dike
compared to the partial protection by riprap. However, the useful life of the asphalt revetinent is, at
least, three folds less than the useful life of the stone revetinent and the fonner requires more and
frequent maintenance than the later. The provisions made in Contracts S-01 and S-02 to include
additional machinery and equipment required for O&M of asphalt revetmnent.
8)   To make a substitution to stone revetmuent of the Sistan River dikes, the concrete block pitching
revetmnent, equipped with wire mesh was selected, mostly due to the availability of required
--38 --



materials. This type of revetment was constructed only in critical banks of the river (such as bends.
meanders, etc.), as was the case for riprap revetment in the initial design and in initial Contracts
C-OIA and C-0I3B.
9)   Almost all the Contracts were subject to the extension of the contract period. The periods of
extension given to different Contracts are mentioned in Table 8.
10)  The quantity of work items drastically changed in Contracts C-20 and C- 12 , due to the increasing
of earthworks and concrete works in the said Contracts. Increase of cost equal to Rials 602 million
and 3000 million, respectively, were required. These figures correspond to 61% and 50%0 increase,
respectively, in the original contract prices. The required addendums to these Contracts were
signed. However, foreign currency part of the said Contracts di r not increase and only local
currency part was changed.
II)  Due to the lack of proper physical progress in Contract C-OIB, it was proposed that this Contract
be terminated. The bank approved the proposal, and the said Contract was terninated in December
1998, while only about 5% of penranent works was implemented. The new tender documents
were prepared and the Contract was re-tendered in February 1999.
12)  Lack of proper progress in the implementation of Contract C-13 and C-14 was another problem
encountered. Originally, there was no foreign currency component in the said two Contracts and
the unit prices in both Contracts were drastically low. A proposal was made to include a foreign
currency component in these two Contracts, which was approved by the Bank in December 1998,
but the approval of MOE was delayed until July 2000. Thusy, an increase of the foreign currency
component under the Contracts C-13 and C-14 from 0% to 40% enabled both Contracts to be
completed in June, 2001.
13)  The present use of Chalhnime 3-4 Waterway can be discharging the collected flood waters in
Chahnime 3 to the natural depressions located within the area for future impoundment. The future
use of the Waterway will be to fill Chaluinte 4 reservoir from Clhahuime 3 and reversibly to
discharge water from Chahnime 4 through Chahnime 3 to be used for irrigation or munici, AI water
supply. The construction of the Waterway was proposed to be carried out under a variation order
to Contract C-OIA with cost estimate of around US$ 3.0 million, as foreign currency part. The
proposal was submitted to the Bank in July, 2000 and was approved by the Bank.
14)  Based on requirements of modified Contracts, the type and number of equipment and machinery to
be procured within the framework of the Contracts S-0 1, S-02 and S-03 were revised.
15)  It was proposed to the Bank that the already planned study of Resources Management program
(RMP) by a new consulting firm (to be selected according to Bank's procedure through Request for
Proposals and Shortlist), be 'isregarded. Also implementation of most components of RMP, have
already been, or is being carried out by SBRWB (such as Shile Stabilization Project, Chaluime
Reservoir No. 4, etc.). Thus, regarding RMP, the study performed by TSCE was considered
sufficient and the prepared report by TSCE was finalized, and submitted to the Bank. Separate
implementation of RMP was no longer required.
16)  It was decided that the Training program (PWIT) be limited to short tern training of SBRWB staff
by WPIT and the cost of implementing the program be only in local currency. The implementation
of the training (TP) was started in June 2000. The courses under training program were delivered
in Zahidan by PWIT and the participants of these courses were n.nijnated by SBRWB and wer
those who shall be the operating staff of the Project after completion, whether at the legislative,
executive, monitoring or technical levels. The trainilg program  was planned such that thc
participant attended the courses one or two days per week while performed their regular duties as
- 39 -



employees of SBRWB, rest of the time. The training program was completed in end-July 2001,
which ensures the development of adequate staff competence and institutional capacity.
17)  The NESPAK was disengaged in December 1998 by PIU and TSCE continued supervision of
construction of Project individually. Upon decision of PIU, another consultants, namely Iran Khak
has been operating the field construction control laboratories of different Contracts since January
21, 1999.
18)  It was decided that the studies of mathematical modeling (MM) to be carried out by TSCE. The
studies were completed and the Bank approved the final Reports of MM.
19)  The requirements of dredging of Sistan River were studied and the proposal of purchasing of two
dredgers (one small and one larger) for this river was submitted to the World Bank. The Bank
accepied lihe proposal and procuremnciti of iwo suctiol dredgers was inlciuded in the Contiracis S-0i
and S-02, respectively.
20)  The Contract for the Flood Wamring and Emergency Plan (FWEP) was signed on October 4,2000,
with WLIDelft Hydraulics from the Netherlands in and the Water Research Center (WRC)
affiliated with the MOE. Th-e Contract became effective upon approval of the Contract by the Bank
(which was given in fax dated September 20, 2001) and receipt by the Consultants of advance
payment (which was received on 6 February 2001). Since then, the Consultants have submitted the
Inception Report (on end-February, 2001), Mid-tenn Progress Report (on end-April, 2001), and A
Proposal for Hydraulic Modeling (on end-April, 2001).
The Managing Director of SBRWB appointed, on 16 January 2001, a team of experts of Sharif
University as the Technical Office of the Client, i.e. the authority responsible for review,
commenting and approval of the Consultants' Reports. However, the Mid-Tenn Report was not
approved by the Sharif University and it was decided by PIU, and agreed by the Bank, that the
Contract of Delft be tenninated and the WRC continues FWEP studies individually. Therefore, the
future payments under FWEP shall only be in local currency financed by SBRWB. Relevant
reports shall be sent to the Bank, upon completion.
21)  Two sets of bid document were to be prepared under Contract S-03, with the first set, i.e. Contract
S-03/1 allocated to the equipment already set, and the Contract S-03/2, allocated to the equipment
to be identified under FWEP studies. Under Contract S-03/1, 6 units of station wagons were
procured by end-Oct. 2001. However, delay occurred regarding instruments proposed to be
delivered under Contract S-03/2, due to the delay caused by lack of progress under the Flood
Waming and Emergency Plan as mentioned in item in (20) above. Thus, procurement of Contract
S-03/2 is now scheduled for the last months of year 2001. The Bank approved that the
procurement of Contract S-03/2 to be paid in local currency financed by SBRWB.
22)  Due to the changes/variations made in the civil-works Contracts, particularly replacing riprap with
LSA and inclusion of Chahnime 3-4 Waterway, the quantities of different types of the works faced
some changes during the implementation. Tables 5 and 6 show the major items of works in original
Contracts and the precise quantities of works in modified and completed Contracts which are
actually implemented. All Variation Orders under different Contracts have been cleared througl
the Ban-k before issuing.
The Implemented Project. The implementation period for this Project was estimated at 6 years starring
from December 1992 and ending in December 1998. However, due to the various reasons outlined in
successive Monthly Progress Reports, the actual plysical progress of Project implementation was very
slow during the period of Jan. 1993 to Dec. 1997. In December 1997, the physical progress was in the
- 40 -



order of about 15% against estimated 92% in SAR. During the said period three managing directors had
taken office, successively, in SBRWB, and each managing director had appointed his PIU staff for thre
managing Project Implementation. However, the last PIU, appointed by the last and current SBRWB
managing director, in about May 1998, proved to be competent for carrying out the managing of the
Project.
Project Cost & Financin2
Project Cost. The estimated Project cost according to SAR was about Rls 139,676 million, while the
total initial Contracts' price was about RIs 241,287 million Table 14). However, the exchange rate
adopted in SAR was around 1400 Rls/US$, while the exchange rate fixed in the civil works Contracts
varied between 1750 - 5745.
The exchlange rate for all reimbursements and direct payment of 60% local expenditures was 1750
Rls/USS.
The rate for direct payment to the local Consultants was 1750 Rls/US$.
The rate adopted in direct payments disbursed in other non-civil components has been assumed as 3U00
Rls/US$.
Financing by the World Bank. The Bank financed, out of the proceeds of the Loan, (Schedule I if the
Loan Agreement), the following expenditures:
- 41 -



Table 16. Breakdown of Bank Fitiancinrg by Conaponent
(Category       Contract                             US, Million
Initial Contract  Revised       Paid for 60%   Total Payment
Foreign        Contract     (100%) Local   from the l oan
Currency        Foreign        Currency,
Currency        Equiv.
C ivil         C-20              0               0             0.342           0.342
Works           C-13             0              1.091          0.599           1.692
(L)           C-14              0             1.892           1.041           2.933
C-12           0.980           0.985           0.778           1.763
C-15           0.9250          0.981           0.420           1.401
C-30           0.264           0.287           0.188           0.475
C-I I          2074            0.424           0.372           0.796
T otal, TCB3 Contracts (a)     4.238           5.660           3.730           9.390
C-02           17.801          17.105          1.226          18.331
C-03           3.853           4.301           0.811           5.112
C-OIA           6.763           9.863           0.883          10.746
C-OlB (Old)        1.894          0.249             0             0.249
C-OIB (New)        1.721           1.246            0              1.246
Total, ICB Contracts (b)       32.032         32.765           2.920          35.695
Total Civil Works (a+b)       36.270          38.425           6.660          45.085
Non            TSCE              0              0             0.790           0.790
Civil        NESPAK            2.000           1.700            0              1.700
Works       Flood Warning       1.840           0.058            0             0.058
Total, Consultants(a)         3.840           1.758          0.790           2.548
S-0 I          1.406           1.406            0              1.406
S-02           4.502           4.502            0              4.502
S-03           0.111           0.111            0        _   0.111
Total, Equipment (b)         6.019           6.019             0             6.019
Total Non-Civil (a+b)         9.859           7.777           0.790           8.567
Total, Project (1 +2)        46.129         46.202           7.450          53.652
The equivalent US$ million of S-01 & S-02 Contract are as follows:
S-0(  : 1 lepco (0.38), Dopke (0.576) and Marubenii (0. 192),
S-02: I'aker(1.376), IHC (2.137), Case 0.319) and Bymmar (0.670).
- 42 -



Economic Evaluation
Evaluation Criteria. Economic justification of the project has been examined by the application of the
efficiency criterion of the public investment usinig the discounted cash flow technique; economic measures
like "net present worth benefit cost ratio, and economic internal rate of return. These are computed as a
measure of the profitability of investment on thie works implemented under the Project. The economic liFe
of the proposed Project has been assumed as 50 years from the start of construction of works, althougli
the life of the Project works extends even beyond 50 years, provided adequate maintenance schedules are
followed.
Project Benefits
Project Benefits: The main project benefits, are measured in tenns of the avoidance and/or reduction in
frequency of direct and indirect flood damages and operation and maintenance costs that would occur in
the absence of the Project. Direct damages result from physical contact of flood waters with damageable
property, including standing crops, livestock, stored grain; structures and conten-ts of residential.
commercial, industrial and Government properties ; and infrastructure such as roads, bridges, irrigation
and water supply facilities, electric power system and other public services. Indirect damages result from
the disruption of economic and physical linkages on or adjacent to the flood plain, includingg; crop located
outside the flood plain but dependent on water from irrigation system subject to direct damages; traffic
stoppages and detours; losses of trading profits and industrial production, and costs of emergencv
services associated with flood relief.
Summary of Benefits: The annual benefits on account of protection of flood damages are estimated as
Rls 47219 million. These benefits are expected to increase in real tenns by about five percent annually
over the next 10 years beyond which- it will remain constant. This rate of increase seems justifiable on1
the grounds there would be an enhancement in the value of land on account of high crop yields and mone
intensive agriculture, primarily resulting from the use of improved practices and advanced technology.
The total anlual benefits for various index years are summarized in Table 8. These annual benefits are in
case the Project implementation is completed and Project is in Ml operation. During the construction
period, the Project facilities are partially operational and thus part of the total benefits should be takeni
iilto accounlt.
Conclusion
The project has after many difficulties reached a satisfactory completion with the niain
objectives achieved. Minor (implementing FWEP, S-03/1 and final Report of Training) remaia
after the loan closing date, for which local funding is available
Bank's performance
The World Banik mission during each visit imparted valuable guidance and support by suggesting
corrective measures in project implementation. They adjusted project content in accordance with the
practical situation, in order to guarantee smooth implementation of the project. Their work was efficienit
and of higlh quality during the whole project implementation. Cooperation between both parties - Banlk
and the Borrower - was friendly and sincere anid opinions on project issues were exchanged frankly
between the World Bank representatives and the Project Implementation Unit. This lhelped to solve
various problems, which occurred during project implementation.
43 _






MAP SECTION






HAMUN-E-SASURi
.  t                    ,,                            >.   -'             \~~~~~~~~~~~~ . s  H A M U N -E-PU ZA K
.:. - -   .- :-  --:;:-.)'.MIANKANGI ,
-'HAMUN        RMAND         Lakeshore at                       IRRIGATION DISTRIc!T           'I
.-Wat~rf~wI - .&frst     h;gh water level            C-1 4
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --.TB  --'',''',   '                                                             .  .  .,-,;i'!   S \\)  
1X.Xw.;~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
Lkhe   at L eshoreat  )                           /    1      A     >     > ;\QLan d o a
do watero leervevllT                                                                                        '
!i             3                           V'/ahne       N.20Ai
;   '.- ad 0
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SISTAN RIVER FLOOD WORKS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
COMPLETED L4NDER PROJECT:              -     IRRIGATION CANALS                .-      LAKES
DYKES REHABILITATED                          EXISTING DYKES                ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
__BRIDGE REHABILITATED OR CONSTRUCTED     EJ BARRAGES
FEEDER CHANNELS UPGRADED               U    ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
I  NEW WEIR                            *    TOWN                           01       5        10       15 I         >0
*-- WATERWAY                              O    VILLAGES                                       KlMTR
zhC-02   CONTRACT NUMBERS                   __ _-  PAVED ROADS                     N
_                                                                      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n thns crap do nc imply, on sIr, port of tire World Enst Grour, 5"r  
;                                        --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~RIVERS    cdoeeet on hie legal status ean ay ternitorr.nt any eadorseren ra at
Sisoa.Zhat  o                                               d
0                                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~okWi



