                                             Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                               Report No. 31203-SV



              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

                                          DEVELOPMENT

                                    PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                                 FOR A



                               FIRST BROAD-BASED GROWTH



                               DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION


                                                    TO


THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR



                                         JANUARY 21, 2005




Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   Currency Unit = US$ 1
                       Fiscal Year:
                July 1,2004 -June 30,2005

            ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

BCR           Central ReserveBank
CACM          Central American Common Market
CAFTA         Central America Free Trade Agreement
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBI           Caribbean Basin Initiative
CEA           Country Environmental Analysis
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
COFOG         Classifications Consistentwith International Standards
CONACYT       National Councilfor Science and Technology
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
DR-CAFTA      FreeTrade Agreement betweenthe Dominican Republic,
              Central America and the UnitedStates of America
DPL           Development Policy Lending
DIGESTYC      NationalDirectorate for Statistical and Census
EDUCO         Community Education Program
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
FOVIAL        RoadMaintenance Fund
FSAP          Financial Sector Assessment Program
FTA           Free Trade Agreement
FTAA          Free Trade Agreement of the Americas
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IADB          Inter-American Development Bank
ICA           Investment Climate Assessment
ICT           Information andCommunication Technology
IMF           International Monetary Fund
PSAS          InternationalAccounting Standards
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean
LACAP         Law on Public Sector Procurementand Contracting
MSME          Micro, Small and MediumEnterprise
NAFTA         NorthAmerica Free Trade Agreement
NFPS          Non-Financial Public Sector
OED           Operations andEvaluations Department
ON1           National Investment Office
PER           Public Expenditure Report
PFM           Public Financial Management
PROESA        Investment Promotion Agency
PSIA          Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
RED1          Recent Economic Developments inInfrastructure
SAFI          Integrated financial management system


                              ..
                              11

                                                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




  SIGET                          Superintendence of Energy and Telecommunications
  SIRH                           Integrated System For HumanResource Management
  SMEs                           Small and MediumEnterprises
  SSF                            Superintendence for the Financial System
  TP                             Trade Point
  UNAC                           Procurement Policy Office



                       I        Vice-president  Pamela Cox
                              Country Director  Jane Armitage
                                Sector Director EmestoMay
                            Task Manager and
                               Lead Economist   Carlos Feli e Jaramillo




                                   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

     The World Bank Group greatly appreciates the close collaboration with the Government
     of ElSalvador inthe preparation of this Development Policy Loan (DPL).

     The team would like to thank the entire country team for their contributions and give
     special thanks to several colleagues inthe L A C Region including Todd Crawford,
     Jessica Poppele, Manuel Sevilla, Ana Lucia Armijos, Ricardo Tejada, Sonia C. Molina,
     Maria del Carmen Miiioso, Jesds Martinez, Mario Sangines, Aquiles Almansi, Manuel
     Vargas, Evelyn Villatoro as well as LEGLA and L O A G l.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization,


                       LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY
                                       El Salvador
                  FIRST PROGRAMMATICBROAD-BASED GR0WTH
                           DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN

Borrower             Republic of El Salvador

Implementing Agency MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Amount               US$lOOmillion

Terms               Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollars with level repayments of
                    principal commitment-linked.       Automatic     Rate Fixing,    based on
                    cumulative disbursementsof USD$lOO,OOO,OOO. The Borrower also chose
                    a grace period of 1year and a total repayment term of 21 years. Payment
                    dates for interest and commitment charges due on each February 15 and
                    August 15, with the following Amortization Schedule, during the life of
                    the Loan:

                                      PaymentDate            InstallmentShare
                                     February 15,2006              2.50%
                                     February 15,2008              2.50%
                                     February 15,2009              2.50%
                                     February 15,2010              2.50%
                                     February 15,2011              2.50%
                                     February 15,2012              2.50%
                                     February 15,2013              2.50%
                                     February 15,2014              2.50%
                                     February 15,2015              2.50%
                                     February 15,2016              2.50%
                                     February 15,2017              2.50%
                                     February 15,2018              2.50%
                                     February 15,2019              2.50%
                                     February 15,2020              2.50%
                                     February 15,2021              2.50%
                                     February 15,2022              2.50%
                                     February 15,2023              2.50%
                                     February 15,2024              2.50%
                                     February 15,2025              2.50%
                                     February 15,2026              2.50%
Commitment Fee      0.85% on undisbursed loanbalances for first four years, standard charge
                    of 0.75% on undisbursed loan balancesthereafter, beginning 60 days after
                    signing, less 0.5% waiver if loan i s signed on or beforeJune 30,2005.
Front-EndFee         1% of the loan amount, less 0.5% waiver if loan i s signed on or before
                    June 30.2005.
Tranching           Single tranche for the full amount of the loan, minus the front-end fee.
Objectives          The proposed Programmatic DevelopmentPolicy Loan i s part of a
                    Drog.rammaticseries of four DPLs intended to sumort the Government's



                                             i v

                   mediumterm development strategy to acceleratebroad basedand
                   equitable economic growth and to contribute to the Government's
                   objectives o f (i)re-ignitinggrowth, particularly through increasedprivate
                   investment and trade; (ii) reinforcing macroeconomic stability and
                   strengthening fiscal sustainability; and (iii)increasing the efficiency and
                   transparency of public sector management. The first area includes policies
                   to expand trade opportunities and improve the investment climate. The
                   secondarea highlights measures related to expanding tax revenues,
                   reducingthe fiscal burden of pension reform and strengthening the
                   financial sector. The thirdarea supports public sector modernization
                   efforts, with emphasis on the areas of procurement, e-government and
                   public financial management. Future DPL operations are expectedto
                   focus more intensively on the growth agenda (trade, business
                   environment, publidprivate participation in infrastructure) while
                   maintaining attention to transparency and efficiency inpublic spending.
Description        This first loan of the programwill focus on the fiscal measures undertaken
                   to meet the challenges of stemmingdebt growth and preserving space for
                   key growth and social investments. It also devotes attention to the growth
                   agenda, with special emphasis on measuresrelatedto widening trade
                   opportunities, as well as to continuingpublic sector modernization efforts.

Benefits           The key benefits expected from the programare:
                        Meeting fiscal needs: Board approval of this loan and its related
                       disbursement in early 2005 would not only help the government to
                       meet its objective of diversifying financing sources but to secure
                       financing on more favorable terms.            This would support the
                       government's goal of fiscal stabilization and efficient spending.
                       Endorsement of sound policy and vehiclefor dialogue: The DPL
                       would secure overall continuity of the Bank's policy dialogue with El
                       Salvador while strengthening the Bank's reputation as a reliable
                       development partner.
Risks              The most important risks faced by the operation are:
                       Fiscal: El Salvador's current NFPS debt burden-nearly          40 percent
                       of GDP-increases     its vulnerability to potential shocks.
                       Political: Despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by President
                       Saca in April 2004, a divided Assembly could become an obstacle to
                       important reforms,
                       Extemal: Sustained high oil prices or a possible international
                       recession could negatively affect El Salvador's economy and
                       deteriorate debt dynamics. The end of textile quotas in 2005 in the
                       United States and other markets, i s intensifying competition from
                       China and other Asian countries, which could potentially negatively
                       impact the economy.
                       Natural disaster: The country i s vulnerable to naturaldisasters (e.g.,
                       earthquakes and hurricanes) which could hurt the performance of the
                       economy inthe short-term, thereby requiring significant unanticipated
                       financing for emergency assistance and reconstruction.
Operation IDNumber PO93133




                                             V

                                                       ELSALVADOR
                  FIRSTPROGRAMMATICBROAD-BASEDGROWTH
                                  DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN

                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. INTRODUCTIONANDSTRATEGICCONTEXT......................................................                                                                                      1
11.      THE ECONOMY..............................................................................................................                                            3
         A. GROWTH: RECENTEVOLUTIONAND KEY CHALLENGES..........................................................                                                               3
         B. FISCAL ISSUES .........................................................                                                                                           8
         C. MEDIUM-TERMMACRO-ECONOMICPROSPECTSAND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY. ...............11
111.     THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM:RESTORINGBROAD-BASED
         GROWTH........................................................................................................................                                     11
         A. ACCELERATING BROAD-BASEDGROWTH.
         B. RESTORINGA SOUNDFISCAL FRA
         C. PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION
IV.      THE PROPOSEDLOAN..............................................................................................                                                     19
         A. LINKTO CAS AND ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                                                                       ...........................................        19

         C. DESIGN OF DPL........................
         B. LESSONSLEARNED. ........................................................................................................................ 20


                                                  ......................................
                                                  PACT ANALYSIS......
                                                  MENT AND NATION
                                                                                                                                                      ....................   25
                                              ............................................................................................................... 26



V.      COORDINATIONWITH DONORS AND STAKEHOLDERS................................                                                                                            28


ANNEXES
Annex 1:   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                                                  ............................................................ 30
Annex 2:   RESULTSFRAMEWORK - EL SALVADOR BROAD BASED DEVELOPMENT POLICY LN.. 38                                                                                          ....
Annex 3:   PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT MILESTONES - EL SALVADOR BROAD-BASED
           DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Annex 4:   DEBT SUSTAINABILITY                                  ................................................................................................. 41
Annex 5:   INTERNATIONALMONE                                   DRELATIONS NOTE?.......................
Annex 6:   EL SALVADOR AT A GL

Figures
Figure 1.  Government Strategy 2004-2009 Safe Country ......................................................................                                                  12

Tables
Table 1.   MediumTermMacroeconomic Scenario                                     ...................................................................................           i o
Table 2.   Expected Yield of Tax Reforms in 2005                               ....................................................................................           17
Boxes
BOX 1.     Actions to Maximize DR-CAFTA Opportunities for El Salvador                                                              .....................................     24
BOX 2.     CFAAand CPAR : Summary of Findingsand Recommendations                                                                   .....................................     26


                                        ELSALVADOR
                   FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BROAD-BASED GROWTH
                             DEVELOPMENT POLICY L O A N

                 I. INTRODUCTIONANDSTRATEGICCONTEXT

1.   ElSalvador is a middle income country with a strongpolicy track record. Since the
signing of the Peace Accords in 1991, following a 12 year civil war, El Salvador has made
substantial progress in consolidating peace and democracy through three electoral cycles. On
the economic front, progress has been rapid and wide ranging. Starting in the early 1990s,
successive governments have tackled reforms in a host of key areas including trade
liberalization, tax reform, strengthening of the financial sector, and promotion of private
participation in telecoms, energy, and pensions. More recently, a decision to dollarize the
economy in 2001 has resulted in lower inflation and interest rates and reduced business
uncertainty. Since the early 1990s, the country has also invested in schooling, health and
other basic services, which, together with the economic reforms, have contributed to rising
per capita incomes and a notable reduction in poverty. As a result of these impressive
sustained reform efforts, El Salvador stands out as a leader in reforms in LAC, along with
Chile.

2.   The re-establishment of peace and the country's sustained economic reform efforts
have yielded substantial gains for the population since the early 1990s.Economic growth
in the 1990s rebounded to an average annual rate of 4.9% --the second highest in Central
America behind Costa Rica. Impressive progress was also made in social areas, including in
basic education enrollment, infant and maternal mortality, access to reproductive health
services and access to safe water. Overall poverty declined significantly (over 27 percentage
points) between 1991 and 2002, while extreme poverty was halved in the same period. This
impressive decline i s mainly due to the combined impact of economic growth and human
development improvements.

3.   In recent years, external shocks impaired translation of policy performance into
strong growth and instead led to rapid debt accumulation. Earthquakes, depressed coffee
prices, international recession and, more recently, high oil prices have led to low growth
levels, which have barely kept up with population dynamics since 2000. Low growth,
substantial reconstruction outlays and growing transition costs from pension reform explain
the An up indebt levels of recent years.

4.   The new government of president Tony Saca, elected in April 2004, is aggressively
addressing growth and fiscal issues with special emphasis on reaching the poor through
a comprehensive development program as elaborated in section 111. The government's
program "Safe Country" i s based on three pillars: growth, equity and security. It focuses on
sound macro-fiscal management, foreign investment promotion, free trade, private sector-led
development and a business environment free o f exchange rate risk. The government i s also
placing greater emphasis on equitable growth and pro-poor policies, and plans to gradually
increase social spending as a share o f GDP over the next five years, with a particular focus on
improving the coverage and quality of education. The vision of a "Safe Country"
encompasses a broad definition of security, including improving physical safety through


                                              1

programs to combat and prevent crime and violence, increasing investor security through
initiatives to combat corruption, increase transparency and impartial enforcement of the law
and building greater public confidence in public institutions, including the judiciary. The
government i s also committed to reducing vulnerability, giving priority to enhanced social
protection and safety net programs for the poorest and most vulnerable households.

5.    This proposed single tranche development policy loan would lend support to the
government's impressive program in the amount of $100 million, at more reasonable
financial cost than financing with external bonds. It i s one of the first under the new Bank
guidelines approved in August 2004. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for El
Salvador lays out a lending program in which the central component would be a series of four
programmatic Development Policy Loans (DPL) to support the new government's medium
term development strategy.      This DPL and the three planned additional operations are
intended to contribute to the Government's objectives of (i)    reigniting growth, particularly
through increased trade and investment, (ii)reinforcing macroeconomic stability and
strengthening fiscal sustainability, and (iii) increasing the efficiency and transparency of
public sector management. The proposed DPL would support actions in each area. The first
area would include policies to expand trade opportunities and improve the investment climate.
The second area would highlight measures related to expanding tax revenues andreducing the
fiscal burden of pension reform. The third area supports public sector modernization efforts,
with emphasis inthe areas of procurement, e-government and public financial management.

6.    ElSalvador is a prime candidate for development policy lending. It boasts a strong
track record of sound macroeconomic management, policy and institutional reforms and
marked improvements in social indicators. The new administration enjoys a significant
mandate and has proposed a credible plan to accelerate broad-based and equitable economic
growth.

7.    The proposed loan presents opportunities and risks. For the Bank, rapid response to
this request by the government presents a significant opportunity to be responsive and develop
a closer relationship with a regional reform leader. Policy dialogue in El Salvador i s bound to
enrich the Bank's experience in dealing with an advanced reformer facing second generation
issues, which should prove invaluable for upgrading its assistance to other countries. The DPL
also provides a unique opportunity for El Salvador to lower its financing cost with respect to
alternatives in international financial markets and to facilitate more rapid approval o f the
budget and its financing plan in the Assembly. A programmatic series o f DPLs, synchronized
with the government's annual budget, may facilitate political negotiations by demonstrating
broad support from the Bank as well as cost savings. If successful, this would break with the
pattern of lengthy approval delays that have become common for both the government's
budget and for the Bank's investment projects in El Salvador. However, given a history o f
political polarization, there are risks that protracted political negotiations may affect the
implementation of policy reform and the DPL approval itself.




                                               2

                                  11.     THE ECONOMY

8.    Despite impressive progress in structural reforms and sound macroeconomic
management, El Salvador's growth levels have been relatively low since the second half
of the 1990s, and decelerated further in 2000-03 as a result of negative shocks. Low
growth, reconstruction needs after the earthquakes of 2001 and the transition costs of pension
reform explain the rise of about 10 percentage points of GDP in public debt in the period
2000-2003. Given the risks that may arise from further debt accumulation, the mainchallenge
facing El Salvador in the current juncture i s to reignite growth and stem the fiscal imbalances
of recent years, while preserving fiscal space for much-needed social and growth investments.

9.    The new government is well aware of these challenges and has put forth a credible
Plan to address them. President Saca, elected last March with a strong mandate, has
proposed an economic plan that highlights among his key priorities, reigniting growth and
addressing fiscal deterioration. The growth agenda i s based on actions to expand trade,
improve the investment climate, provide critical infrastructure services, spur innovation and
bolster educational levels. Actions to address fiscal challenges include improving fiscal
revenues, reductions in pension expenditures and plans to address contingencies in the
financial sector. The government expects that prompt ratification and implementation of the
free trade agreement recently negotiated with the U.S.              (DR-CAFTA)       along with
complementary measures should lift growth rates andfurther improve the fiscal outlook.

A. GROWTH:    RECENTEVOLUTION KEY CHALLENGES
                                     AND

10. The Salvadoran economy has weakened since 2000 due mainly to a series of
exogenous shocks. The coffee crisis, the devastating 2001 earthquakes and the global
recession explain to a large extent the sluggish growth o f the period 2000-2003 (1.9%
annually). In2003 real growth reached only 1.8% due to a decline in agricultural output, a
decline in public sector reconstruction effort and private sector investment related to the
uncertainty surrounding the 2004 presidential election. Growth in 2004 came in at a
disappointing 2%, due to pre-election uncertainties (until April 2004), delays in government
investment plans associated with the late approval of the 2004 budget (June), high oil prices
and weakness in maquila exports. The latter i s due to an anticipation of the scheduled end of
textile quotas by 2005 in the United States and other markets which i s expected to intensify
competition from China and other Asian countries.

11. After a very successfulperiod, progress inpoverty reduction has slowed since 2000.
El Salvador has made a number of important socio-economic gains since the return to peace.
Economic growth, coupled with reforms in some key sectors and increases in social sector
spending in the second half of the decade has contributed to substantial reductions in poverty
and improvements in basic socio-economic indicators. Indeed, poverty declined from 64.4 %
in 1991to 37.2 in2000. Inthe same period, extreme poverty declined from 31.2 % to 15.4 %;
education levels have risen; access to basic services, such as safe water, has increased; and
basic health outcomes, such as life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and child nutrition
have all improved. With lower economic growth and external shocks, progress in social
indicators has slowed down since 2000, as illustrated in the Bank's recent Poverty
Assessment. However, the study concludes that despite the 2001 earthquakes and other

shocks, figures from the 2002 surveys indicate that most of the gains in poverty and other
social indicators had been maintained.

12. The external current account deficit has increased since 2002 financed mainly by
strong capital inflows, including FDI. Since most of the increase can be explained by the
need to finance greater fiscal deficits, the shortfall in the current account can be expected to
narrow gradually as the new government carries out its fiscal plans. On the other hand, the
large trade imbalance of recent years that reached 15.8% of GDP in 2004 i s likely to persist in
the medium term financed by the significant flow of remittances from Salvadorans living
abroad. Remittances have increased from an average of 2.6 9% of GDP during the 1980s to
14.5 % in 2004, displaying remarkable stability despite the downturn in economic activity in
the U.S. in 2001-02.

13. While growth prospects look brighter in 2005 and beyond, El Salvador needs to
continue to press ahead with policy and institutional reforms. According to the Bank's
recent Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), which evaluated positively El Salvador's
reform agenda of recent years, key priority areas going forward include (i)      further expanding
international trade, (ii)improving the investment climate, (iii)addressing remaining
bottlenecks in infrastructure, (iv) fostering innovation and adoption of new technology and,
(v) increasing the educational level of the population. A summary of challenges in each area
i s presented below.

1)Trade

14. El Salvador, four other Central American countries and the Dominican Republic
have negotiated a free trade agreement (DR-CAFTA) with the United States. Its
implementation i s expected to bolster trade and investment levels.           The Bank's recent
analytical work in this area indicates that DR-CAFTA could add at least 0.5% per annum to
El Salvador's growth rate. The agreement would yield opportunities to turnaround the recent
deceleration in export growth, which has been affected by greater competition from Asian
textiles in external markets. It i s also expected to improve significantly the investment climate
inEl Salvador, as it contains rules and disciplines for investment relations, anti-corruption, as
well as labor and environmental standards. Commitments in these areas are expected to yield
improvement in key regulations, as well as a strengthening of local institutions. Greater trade
opportunities and a stronger investment climate are expected to boost investment levels, both
from abroad and from internal sources, which i s the linchpin of the government's plan to
reignite growth.

15. DR-CAFTA is likely to enhance market access for some Salvadoran products,
while making permanent the unilateral preferences offered in the past through the Caribbean
Basin Initiative (CBI). Little if any trade diversion i s expected, since the U.S. has been
traditionally the largest natural market for Salvadoran exports, as we1 as its largest source of
imports.

16. Complementary actions will be required to ensure that El Salvador takes full
advantage of the opportunities offered by DR-CAFTA, and to obtain the anticipated
boost in growth rates, as indicated in the Bank's recent analytical work on this topic.



                                                 4

Actions will be especially needed in improving the investment climate, addressing critical
infrastructural bottlenecks, fostering innovation and raising the educational level of the labor
force. Complementary actions are also needed to ensure that the opportunities of trade are
accessible to small and medium size firms, which represent a significant percentage of El
Salvador's economy. Further progress in deepening market access with other significant
trading partners, including other Central American nations, the European Union and Canada,
will also bolster trade and growth opportunities.

17. Other issues that will need to be addressed to boost exports and investment are the
need for a more active and consistent export and investment promotion policy and an
improved quality certification system. On the first front, export and investment promotion
efforts have improved in recent years with Bank assistance, but require further consolidation
under a unified institutional structure. On the second front, recent surveys continue to indicate
that Salvadoran firms face difficulties inexporting, as their products do not always conform to
international quality standards. The I C A found that only 6% of Salvadoran firms surveyed are
ISO-certified, much less than other comparator countries from L A C and South East Asia.
Improvements in this area are critical if local firms can be recognized by foreign countries as
reliable partners.

2) Investment Climate

18. Remaining challenges in this area include addressing the poor functioning of some
markets, insufficient competition in others, high costs of doing business and further
development of capital markets, as described below.

    0   Market pe~omzanceand regulation of competition. One of El Salvador's key
    deficiencies in international competitiveness rankings i s the persistence of perceptions of
    anti-competitive practices in some markets as well as the lack of modern anti-trust and
    bankruptcy laws. The appropriate functioning o f some markets has been impaired by weak
    enforcement of current norms and the absence of a modern Commercial Code. Market
    performance i s also affected by gaps in the overall regulatory framework and weaknesses
    in some regulatory agencies. Improvements in the effectiveness of the judicial system is
    also needed.


    0   Costs of doing business.Recent reports by the Bank have highlighted the highcosts of
    doing business in El Salvador. In particular, local entrepreneurs still have to endure long
    and costly processes to establish a new business. Recently, the National Investment Office
    (ONI) reduced the time to register a foreign business form 8 months to 2 weeks. However
    the benefits of administrative simplification for starting and operating a business need to
    be extended to local firms, including SMEs. According to the 2005 Cost of Doing
    Business Report, El Salvador needs additional efforts in reducing the number of days and
    the cost of registeringnew firms.

    0   Development of capital markets: El Salvador's capital market has benefited from a
    regionally strong financial sector, generally effective legislation, banking consolidation,
    unrestricted capital flows and considerable integration o f micro-lending institutions to the
    formal banking sector. However, the banking sector's ability to provide capital to all types


                                                5

    of productive activities i s constrained by its limited capacity to assume un-diversifiable
    risks, and by the need to permanently maintain high precautionary liquidity levels. The
    pension funds cannot fill the financing gap left by the banks because the bulk of their
    resources finance government needs, including the transitional costs of the pension
    reform, as a result of regulations that compel them to invest in safe domestic financial
    assets. Alternative financing instruments could develop through the securitization of
    claims on selected investment projects, as banks, brokerage houses, and the Stock
    Exchange offer the infrastructure required to place those securities in their primary
    market, and to provide liquidity to themby maintaining an active secondary market. Other
    areas that require further efforts to improve access to finance more broadly include
    improving credit analysis for micro lending institutions; introducing more flexible
    guarantees and more efficient registration of related pledges and execution of claims.

3) Infrastructure

19. Despite progressduring the 1990s, and a major reconstruction effort after the 2001
earthquakes, El Salvador still faces challenges in the coverage, quality, access and
sustainability of infrastructure services. To move in this front, the country will need to
mobilize additional investment resources (public and private) and continue institutional and
policy reforms. In particular, the country needs to improve the framework for efficient and
equitable provision of infrastructure services, strengthening the institutional capacity of the
"Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones" (SIGET) and issuing
complementary legislation particularly in the energy, telecommunications, water and
sanitation, and transport sectors. Key issues include:

1) In energy, an electricity sector reform program begun in 1996 unbundled the national
    utility and, in 1998, privatized distribution and generation assets.     The privatization
    program led to investments of approximately US$SSO million in the sector. This has
    significantly increased coverage and service quality, resulting in a decline in the
    production losses experienced b y Salvadoran firms as a result o f power interruptions,
    However, further regulatory and market structural reforms are needed to ensure
    competitive behavior and pricing as well as an investment program that keeps pace with
    demand.

2) Intelecommunications, the situation has improved significantly over the past few years, as
    the liberalization o f the telecom market has led to impressive expansion of coverage for
    telephony and a drop in rates. Nonetheless, El Salvador's technological competitiveness
    i s impacted by the low level of reliance on information and communications technology
    illustrated by an unusually low use of the internet. This i s likely due to tariff structures
    that price internet usage out of the market for homes and small businesses. Regulatory
    and institutional strengthening in this area could help El Salvador to leverage its wide
    telephony coverage as a basis for more competitive ICT.

3 ) Water and sanitation. The sector presents a mixed picture in regulation and supervision,
    and the country i s lagging behind neighboring countries in the region, some of them with
    much lower per capita income, in terms of access to improved water sources. Many
    agencies from the public sector have jurisdiction over the water sector, resulting in



                                                6

    inefficiencies, poor accountability, and lack of a comprehensive policy framework. The
     situation and performance of the water and sanitation sector has impacts that not only
     affect public health but may be increasing the cost of doing business and the capacity to
     attract investments in some areas of the country.

4) Roads. Through the creation of the road fund (FOVIAL), El Salvador has made significant
     strides in rebuilding its primary and secondary road network since the 2001 earthquakes.
     However, it still maintains the lowest level of paved roads in Central America-26          %.
    Among those roads less than 60 % are in good or very good condition. In a survey
     conducted in 2002 as part of the Investment Climate Assessment, approximately 40% of
    firms reported losses or damage of goods in transport from plants to consumers.
     Inefficiencies in the transport and logistics chain generate losses equivalent to 1.8 % of
    total sales. Going forward, the country needs to improve-through       both public and private
    investments-critical roads for international and interregional commerce, including the
    East and North Corridors, as well as the unpaved rural road network that connects rural
     areas to the primary roads.

5) Air transport and ports. One out of every three firms inEl Salvador found air transport to
    be a bottleneck for export competitiveness and FDI. Private investment and a modern
    management arrangement are also needed to improve cargo services at the Comalapa
     International Airport. In ports, the national seaport, Acajutla, remains a relatively
     inefficient public terminal with limited container capacity while most shippers seeks
     access through Honduras. While the government i s considering the development of a new
    port facility with support from Japan, the port reform program has been highlighted in
     competitiveness studies as a priority for exporters and other shippers and consignees. In
     all cases, it is clear that actions should go beyond physical infrastructure and deal with the
     entire logistics chain that increases cost and reduces the capacity to export and the
     attractiveness of El Salvador for private investment.

4) Innovationand technology

20. ElSalvador is trailing inthe area of innovation and technology,as diagnosed inthe
Bank's recent CEM. The country i s lagging in its efforts to develop an effective National
Innovation System (NIS). B y international standards, El Salvador under performs in
innovation outcomes (e.g., patents, scientific publications) as a result of a very low level of
R&D investment in comparison to countries of similar size and level of development, despite
evidence of highpotential rates of return to this type of investment. In addition, the efficiency
of the NIS system, measured as the productivity o f turning R&D investments into patents, i s
low in comparison to similar countries. This inefficiency i s in great part due to the lack of
collaboration between the private sector and research organizations such as universities. El
Salvador also performs poorly in international comparisons of technology transfer through
FDI.

21.    Improving its NIS and levels innovation and technology transfer remains an
important challenge in El Salvador going forward. The CEM suggested the following
initiatives to improve El Salvador's NIS: (i)       improve the capacity of El Salvador to fully
benefit from the available stock of knowledge, by emphasizing imports of capital goods and



                                                   7

licensing; (ii) enhance the incentive-regime for private R&D to help technology absorption
and support gradual technology adaptation; (iii)strengthen public-private partnerships
particularly (although not only) in key areas of the economy such as agriculture and
teleservices; and (iv) improve coordination, policy-making and effectiveness of public
interventions.

5) Education

22.   Continued progress in education is critical to El Salvador's economic growth and
poverty reduction. El Salvador has been a pioneer in innovative and successful education
reform measures, notably the EDUCO community-based school management model which
has contributed to notable advances in coverage. Gross primary enrollment i s now over 100%
while secondary i s 61%. El Salvador has also made great progress since the 1990s in raising
primarygraduation rates and inaddressing disparities between urban andrural areas.

23.   Nonetheless, challenges remain, particularly with respect to equity, quality, and
efficiency.    Low-income groups are still at a considerable disadvantage with respect to
academic performance and secondary enrollment and completion rates. Learning outcomes
are low when compared to predicted performance given El Salvador's development
indicators. This situation presents challenges for improving teacher performance, expanding
students' time in school, and gaining a greater understanding of links between inputs and
performance. Institutional challenges remain paramount in order to find strategies for raising
efficiency, particularly with respect to increasing the cost-effectiveness of key interventions,
raising completion rates (under 80% for primary and 40% for secondary), and lowering
repetitionrates.
B. FISCAL   ISSUES
24.   Public sector debt has risen since 2000, a direct result of low growth and
understandable expenditure pressures. Public debt levels have risen by about 10% of GDP
in the period 2000-2003, taking the overall NFPS debt level to 40.6% of GDP by end 2003.'
Much of this increase in public debt can be attributed to the unfortunate coincidence of a low
growth slump with the need for expenditures to respond to emergency earthquake
reconstruction challenges and the financing of the transition costs of the pension reform.
Reconstruction costs have focused on infrastructure rehabilitation, including roads, bridges,
schools and health facilities. Pension costs reflect the need to finance the obligations to pay
out pensions to older generations which remain inthe pay-as-you-go system.

25.   If recent expenditure and income trends are left unchecked, vulnerabilities could
increase. The Bank's recent Public Expenditure Review (PER) concludes that further growth
in debt and associated interest payments could eventually be reflected in market spreads and
affect El Salvador's hard-earned creditworthiness. According to the analysis, a passive
scenario inwhich expenditures and revenues would maintain recent growth trends would lead
to increasing overall deficits, greater interest payments and a gradually rising public debt.
With conservative macroeconomic assumptions, this scenario would lead to: (a) increasing

'Total public sector debt is estimated at 46.1% of GDP for 2003. The difference with NFPS figures is accounted
by outstanding net debt of the Central Bank and other public banks.


                                                       8

overall deficit to an average of 4.3% of GDP by 2013; (b) interest payments of nearly 3.7% of
GDP in 2013; and (c) total NFPS public debt close to 50% of GDPby 2013, increasing at an
even faster rate afterwards. These trends must be addressed, as El Salvador i s a country that
requires an above average degree of fiscal flexibility due to dollarization andthe vulnerability
of the country to natural disasters.


26.   One significant item that El Salvador will need to continue to accommodate in
fiscal accounts over the medium term is the cost of pension reform. El Salvador adopted a
pension reform in 1996 that replaced the existing pay-as-you-go system with a system of
individual retirement accounts. The reform was aimed at improving long-term fiscal
sustainability by replacing a system that was projected to yield large and growing deficits in
the future by a sustainable one, implying transitional costs as younger Salvadorans move to
the private account system while the state keeps the obligation to pay out pensions to older
generations. Facing mounting transition costs of the pension reform, adoption o f further
measures-such as raising retirement ages and the number of years paid in order to have rights
to a pension-remain a difficult political issue in El Salvador. Outlays required to finance the
transition are expected to average about 2% o f GDP per year over the period 2005-2009.

27.   A debt stabilization strategy that does not rely on raising public revenues would
jeopardize critical expenditures. Bringingdown recent fiscal imbalances to end further debt
accumulation, would require a strong contraction in other areas o f spending. Given the
comparatively small size o f El Salvador's state, such a strategy would likely entail strong
cutbacks in the overall wage bill (including education personnel), and a reduction in public
investment in critical infrastructure including roads, schools and health facilities. These
actions would clearly be detrimental to El Salvador's growth prospects.
28.   Given these constraints, the main challenge facing El Salvador in the current
juncture is to reignite growth and stem the fiscal imbalances of recent years, while
preserving fiscal space for critical public investments in human capital and
infrastructure needed for growth and social progress. The debt sustainability analysis
presented in the recent PER, indicated that El Salvador would require an average primary
surplus of 1.2% of GDP between 2005 and 2009 in order to maintain a debt-to-GDP ratio
below 40% of GDP within the next 5 years (2005-2009) while simultaneously increasing
public investments in human capital and infrastructure. The relatively small overall size of
public expenditures, their high efficiency levels in most areas, and the need to finance
growing pension transition costs, indicate that the bulk of the adjustment would have to be
made on the revenue front. A combination of improved tax collection efforts, broadening of
tax bases, elimination of loopholes and increased tax rates would be needed. On the
expenditure side, some gains may still to be made from improved efficiency levels and from
politically-difficult changes in parameters of the pension system. However, over the medium
term the emphasis will need to be placed in boosting public investment levels in key human
capital and infrastructureneeds for growth and social progress.


29.   Strengthening the financial sector is also required to ensure consolidation of fiscal
accounts.     While El Salvador enjoys one o f the region's stronger financial sectors,
considerable scope exists for tightening prudential standards and reducing contingent



                                                9

liabilities. As argued in the recent FSAP update, capital adequacy requirements need to be
raised to meet international standards. In addition, direct contingent liabilities arise from the
operation of three public banks. Two public retail banks (Banco de Foment0 Agropecuario
and Banco Hipotecario) finance their lending to their target sectors with conventional bank
deposits, and one wholesale bank (Fondo Social de la Vivienda) sells long term debt to the
private pension funds. The potential non performance of their assets implies a contingent
liability for the National Treasury. Going forward, a new financing structure needs to be
developed in which the fiscal cost of this public lending activity i s fully and transparently
funded by existing fiscal resources.

30. The new government is responding to the economic and social challenges. The new
Saca Administration has launched an economic medium-term plan intended to stem further
debt accumulation while simultaneously protecting critical social and growth expenditures
(see Section 111). The plan i s aimed at reducing the overall deficit to about 1.3% o f GDP and
overall debt levels below 40% of GDP by the end of the presidential term (2009),while at the
same time absorbing the growing costs of pension reform and creating space for gradually
increasingpublic investment levels (see Table 1).
                             Table 1. Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario
                                     (as YGof GDP, unless otherwise indicated)               -
                                                         2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
           Macroeconomic Indicators
           GDP growth ("A change)                           1.8    1.8  2.5   3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
           Inflation (endof period % change)                2.5   5.5   2.5   2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
           Gross reserves (months of imports)               3.3   4.5   4.3   4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3
           Foreigndirect investment                         1.7    1.0   1.0  1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5


           Public Sector Accounts
           Total NFPS revenues                             16.8  16.8   17.1  17.0 17.4    17.9  18.4
             Current Revenues                             16.3   16.3   16.6  16.7 17.1    17.6  18.1
                Tax revenues                              l2.1   12.2   13.3  13.6  14.1   14.6  15.2
           Total NFPS expenditures                        20.6   19.3  20.1   19.3  18.9   18.9  19.7
             Current Expenditure (includespensions)       16.9   16.7   16.8  16.3  15.8   15.4   15.0
             Capital Expenditures                           3.7   2.6   3.3   3.0    3.1    3.5    4.7
           Overall NFPS balance                            -3.7   -2.5  -3.0  -2.3  -1.5   -1.0   -1.3


           Total NFPS Debt                                40.7  40.5   40.9  40.7  40.3    39.5  39.2

           Balanceof payments
           Current account balance                         -4.9   -4.4  -4.0  -4.2  -4.3   -4.3   -4.2
               Exports of goods (f.0.b.)                  21.2 20.4     19.6  19.7  19.6   19.8  20.0
               Imports of goods (f.0.b.)                 -36.4 -36.2   -35.6 -35.5 -35.6  -35.5  -35.6



           Memorandum Items:

           Gross Domestic Product ($ million)           14,94015,697 16,47417,506 18,500 19,550 20,660
           Overall NFPS balance(w/o pensions)              -2.1   -0.7  -0.9  -0.1   0.7    1.2    0.8

           Source: Ministry of Finance estimates, basecase scenario,




                                                          10

c. MEDIUM-TERMMACRO-ECONOMIC               PROSPECTSAND DEBTSUSTAINABILITY

31.   Current short and medium term projections by the government and the IMF
assume growth of only 3% annually from 2005 to 2009. While this rate i s an improvement
over the average rate of the period 1996-2003 of 2.5%, it i s still low by historical and regional
norms and below the potential rates projected by the Bank's C E M in the absence of negative
shocks. The low rate i s formally justified by El Salvador's continued vulnerability to shocks,
and i s in keeping with El Salvador's prudent macroeconomic planning. Even under this
conservative scenario, macro and fiscal sustainability trends seem adequate. As confirmed by
the recent IMF Article IV exercise, recent measures are consistent with the government's
current fiscal plan to raise revenues to 15.2% of GDPby 2009 and maintain NFPS debt below
40% by 2009 (Table 1) (see Annex 4).
32.   El Salvador's growth prospects should improve in 2005 and beyond. Inparticular,
growth i s likely to be higher as the global economy translates into higher demand for
Salvadoran exports, as the resolution of recent fiscal trends improves confidence in the
economy and as the ratification of DR-CAFTA enhances the investment and trade outlook in
the country. As illustrated in Annex 4, higher growth over the medium term would improve
debt dynamics and provide opportunities for increasing public investments in key growth and
social areas.
33.   Factors affecting growth and fiscal prospects. Despite a positive outlook there are
risks to higher growth and the expected progress on the fiscal front. Natural disasters, a
deterioration in the global economy or continued high oil prices could dampen performance.
Political gridlock in El Salvador could prevent passage of fiscal measures. Export and
employment growth may be affected by further weakness in maquila exports and investments
in anticipation of the scheduled end of textile quotas in early 2005 in the United States and
other markets. While many o f the effects of this well-known deadline has already prompted
adjustments in this industry, a further intensification of competition from China and other
Asian countries could potentially prompt a further decline.


 111.   THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM:RESTORINGBROAD-BASED GROWTH

34.   The new government has a strong mandate and a vision to tackle El Salvador's
current challenges. On March 2004, the 38-year-old entrepreneur, Antonio Saca, defeated
his nearest rival with a solid margin of 57.7% to 35.7%. The new President has assumed
office in June with considerable legitimacy, since he was elected with a record turnout of
around 60%.      His Plan "Safe Country 2004 - 2009," adopted during the campaign
(summarized in Figure l),     focuses on sound macro-fiscal management, foreign investment
promotion, free trade, private sector-led development and a business environment free of
exchange rate risk.




                                               11

               Pillar I                            Pillar I1                             Pillar I11
     Accelerating Broad-Based       ImprovingEquity through Building        Enhancing Security and Reducing
       Equitable Growth and            Human Capital and Expanding                    Vulnerability
      Increasing Employment             Access to Basic Infrastructure,
                                              Assets and Markets


  Ensuringsoundmacro-              Modemizingeducationandbuilding        MakingEl Salvador a safe country
  management andfiscal             the knowledgesociety.                 throughcontrol andreductionof
  responsibility.                                                        violence.
                                   Improvingquality and universal
  Deepeninginsertionin world       coverageof health services.           Ensuringsocialandeconomic rightsof
  marketsthroughregional                                                 individualsand businessesby
  integrationandtrade.             Designinglocal andregional            strengtheningrule of law.
                                   strategies-focusedon expanding
  Increasingproductivity and       access to basicinfrastructure,        Modemizing public administrationand
  competitivenessthrough           promotingagriculturaldiversification  services,inorder to improve
  improving the investmentclimate  andfacilitating private sector        transparencyandefficiency of resource
  andtaking advantageof            investment.                           use.

IItechnology andconnectivity.    I Strengtheningfamily assets by        IPromotingsocialcohesionand stronger
  Generatingemploymentand          facilitating access to housingand     families through a more effectivesocial
  opportunitiesby supporting       expandinglandadministrationand        safety net andimproving quality of life at
  SMEs.                            titling efforts.                      the local level.

  Improving marketregulationand                                          Enhancingthe interest of future
  supervision.                                                           generationsby protectingthe
                                                                         environment.
                                    PROMOTINGPARTICIPATIONAND CONSENSUS
                                BUILDING PARTNERSHIPSWITH SALVADORANS ABROAD



35.     Policy progress in the growth agenda, fiscal consolidation, and public sector
modernization, will underpin broader success. As recognized by the government, three
areas of policy and structural reform will underpin the broader success o f this comprehensive
development plan. First, the government views reigniting broad-based growth as its ultimate
challenge, as this holds the key to create jobs, raise incomes, generate government revenue,
lower the debt burden and drive down poverty. Second, the government i s seeking to address
recent fiscal disequilibria so as to stem growing debt levels while maintaining fiscal space to
adequately finance its development agenda. Third, in line with this, the government i s also
pushingahead with modernization of its public sector with an aim to using its limited fiscal
resources to greatest effect.

A. ACCELERATINGBROAD-BASED                   GROWTH

36. The cornerstone of the new government's growth agenda is the implementation of
DR-CAFTA and a complementary agenda of policy and institutional reforms to ensure
that El Salvador can obtain its full benefits. The Salvadoran Assembly approved the US-
Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) in December
2004, making El Salvador the first country to ratify the agreement. Implementation on a
bilateral basis will follow immediately after the treaty i s ratified by the U.S. Congress. Key


                                                           12

complementary actions include measures to facilitate the expansion of trade and investment
levels, improvements in the investment climate, addressing infrastructure needs, promoting
innovation and technology, and bolstering the educational level of the labor force.
1)Trade

37. The government is creating a consolidated export and investment promotion
agency to capitalize on new trade and investment opportunities that will arise from DR-
CAFTA and other free trade agreements. The new agency, ledby the Vice President of El
Salvador, i s built on the basis of the Investment Promotion Agency (PROESA) that became
fully operational in 2001. In addition to efforts to promote Salvadoran exports and attract
investments from abroad, the new agency will also provide specialized export-related
information to small and medium enterprises through the Trade Point (TP) program.
Government plans to move away from attracting only "maquila" related FDI, as shown b y
recent successes in attracting more higher technology and value added investments: DELL
Call Centers, an air transport maintenance facility, AEROMAN, a regional service hub for
Philips Electronics. The government is also establishing a partnership with the American
Chamber of Commerce and other private sector groups to improve the country's image as a
socially responsible platform for investments and exports, specially in areas o f labor and
environmental standards. The government i s also planning actions to promote quality and the
adoption of norms and standards to support the expansion of exports, including the
implementation of a National Quality Program, encompassing the development and
strengthening of local quality certification capacity.


38.   The strategy assigns a central role to ensuring that the benefits of new trade
opportunities are accessible to SMEs, both directly through access to export markets and
indirectly by developing strategic linkages with FDI and local exporting companies. The
government plans to expand its programs to allow SMEs to gain access to market intelligence,
establish export contacts, adopt and adapt technologies, and improve quality. New
instruments will be designed to disseminate information on requirements to access the U.S.
market, and provide technical assistance to overcome technical barriers to trade and sanitary
and phytosanitary standards. Some of the most important programs contributing to these effort
are: the Infocentros Network; the "BONOMYPE", a training instrument; the funds for
technical assistance support ("FAT and FOEX"); and programs to promote SME association.


39. The Government is also adopting plans to facilitate retraining programs and
support for low income and economicallydisplaced farmersflaborers to ensure a smooth
transition to other areas with more growth potential. The government i s facilitating at
least three private agreements that create financing facilities for technological upgrading and
substitution activities for firms and sectors that could be negatively affected by the
elimination of tariffs with the U.S. In addition, to ensure that there i s a sufficient supply of
qualified labor for firms to take advantage of new trade opportunities, the government i s also
developing plans to strengthen technical labor training and tertiary education, with emphasis
on responding to demands from the private sector.




                                               13

2) Investment Climate

40. In the area of market performance and regulation of competition, the government
i s putting forward actions to improve the legal and institutional framework. Success in
this area is critical to make sustainable public opinion and political commitment to reforms
and to stem frustration with market reforms in some areas. In December 2004, the
government obtained approval o f a Competition Law which will bolster efforts to improve the
functioning of some markets and reduce the incidence of monopolistic practices. Going
forward, the government also plans to modernize and streamline procedures in the area o f
consumer protection through new legislation and strengthening of the Consumer Protection
Agency which would strengthen efforts to ensure that public services and others have inplace
proper channels to receive, process, respond to legitimate complaints, and in general ensure
compliance with existing legislation. The government also plans to complete the process of
modernization o f all public registries and of the legal framework in various important areas
(i.e., Investment Law, Commercial Code, Bankruptcy Law, e-Commerce, Movable Assets).


41. The government is also committed to improve business registration proceduresand
reduce the time and cost of doing business inEl Salvador, closingany existing gaps with
regional leaders. Recent efforts to reform and harmonize the legal framework for business
registration (including the creation of the National Investment Office, ONI) will be continued.
These efforts are responsible for the sharp fall in the number of days that it takes a foreign
firm to start a business - from 3 to 6 months to only 7 to 10days. Efforts will also focus on
extending the benefits of ON1 to domestic firms, as they still face complex and costly
procedures for registration and operating. Most significantly, the Government plans to open
in 2005 a single registration windows for SMEs, in collaboration with the SME support
agency (CONAMYPE). ON1 offices will open in municipalities in the Eastern and Western
regions of the country.

42. To further develop capital markets, the government is planning to present to the
Assembly new legal frameworks for mutual funds and for securitization in early 2005.
These laws should facilitate financing for new ventures by providing a framework for
standard contracts tradable in liquid secondary markets, as well as a regulatory and
supervisory framework that provides predictable enforcement of those contracts.

3) Infrastructure

43. In infrastructure, the government is in the process of designing an ambitious
agenda to address challenges and spur growth. The agenda i s expected to rely on further
strengthening of regulatory frameworks and institutions, as well as the adoption of
innovations in services delivery and administration arrangements. For this purpose, the
government has asked for Bank assistance to address legal and regulatory needs and to design
new modes of infrastructure service deliveryjointly with the private sector to cover areas such
as toll roads, port and airport facilities, electricity generation, urban transport services and
water supply and wastewater treatment.

44. Some of the key priorities in the area of infrastructure development have already
been identified by the government. In the area of ports, these include the modernization of


                                                14

the port of Acajutla and cargo operations at Comalapa Airport, the development of the new
deep-sea port (Cutuco) and improvements in the sector's legal and regulatory framework. In
road transport services, the government intends to continue development and improvement o f
the primary and secondary network under the Road Maintenance Fund (FOVIAL) program,
address rural road maintenance shortfalls, and rationalize and improve urban public
transportation services. In water, plans are underway for clarifying roles and responsibilities
of the many agencies involved in the sector and adopting new legislation to improve provision
and establish a regulatory entity to oversee national water policy. Inenergy, the priority i s to
strengthen    the   institutional  capacity   of  the    Superintendence    of  Energy      and
Telecommunications (SIGET), review the framework under which the system i s currently
working to ensure competitive pricing and develop plans for expanding the regional inter-
connection o f the Central American grid.

4) Innovation

45. The government plans to develop and formulate a new policy for innovation and
technological development in close collaboration with the private sector. The government
i s currently designing plans to (i)adopt a more clear policy framework; (ii)         improve
cooperation and coordination between public and private sector initiatives; (iii)
                                                                               clarify the role
and strengthen the capacity of the National Council for Science and Technology (Consejo
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia. CONACYT); and (iv) define and put in place more
effective instruments to support innovation and technology adoption by the private sector.
The new policy will include the establishment of a National Innovation and Technology
System. A fund to promote innovation and the adoption of new technologies through
matching funds i s under discussion. Other policies under evaluation include modification of
accounting rules to allow for capitalization and fast depreciation of R&D expenses. The
public-private partnership program ("Descubriendo        Potenciales Productivos") plans to
support the identification and testing of new business activities through a venture capital
facility and business incubators. As part of the effort to promote innovation and technology
adoption, a presidential program has been launched to promote ICT ("Agenda                    de
Conectividad") both in the public and private sectors. Special training programs are being
designed for SME's and programs to develop e-government and e-commerce are also being
considered,   taking advantage of the infrastructure provided by the network of
INFOCENTROS.


5) Education

46. The new government is respondingdecisively to the critical challenges ineducation
that remain with respect to equity, quality and efficiency. Building on the substantial
progress achieved in the past decade, the Government o f El Salvador i s preparing a new
fifteen year Long Term Education Plan that sets specific targets for 2021 focused on key
areas, including improving education quality, expanding access to secondary education, and
strengthening secondary education through linkages to technology and productivity.


47. As the CAS explains, the Bank's ongoing support in this area will be deepened
under the new government through several complementary investment operations. The


                                              15

new fifteen year plan will be supported by a Second Education Reform Project planned for
FY06. This new project builds on an ongoing Secondary Education Project that is working to
extend a participatory approach to secondary education, broadening its coverage in rural
areas, financing school rehabilitation and maintenance, improving cost-effectiveness with an
enhanced role for the private sector, and upgrading the content and relevance of the curricula.
The Bank i s also supporting an ongoing Education Reform Project that aims to ensure that at
least 90 % o f children complete basic education with emphasis on the poorest rural and urban
areas.


B. RESTORINGA SOUNDFISCAL          FRAMEWORK

48.    The need to stem the recent run up in debt levels is a top priority of the new Saca
administration as formulated in "Safe Country" and in the macroeconomic medium
term plan. This plan includes measures designed to lower the fiscal deficit and reduce debt
levels below 40% of GDP by the end of the presidential term (2009), while at the same time
protecting and eventually increasing critical social and growth expenditures. As a result of the
relatively small size of overall expenditures and the need to accommodate the costs of pension
reform, the emphasis of the government's proposed fiscal adjustment relies on increasing tax
revenues by 3% of GDP by 2009 from its 2004 level of about 12% of GDP. In addition, the
plan includes measures to address contingent liabilities inthe financial sector.

49.    The government's plan for fiscal consolidation relies in its first year in office on (1)
a package of fiscal reforms, (2) expenditure discipline as reflected in the 2005 budget
and (3) an adjustment to the pension regime that yields future expenditure relief. On the
first item, the government obtained passage in late October of a fiscal package of laws that are
expected to yield about 1.0 % of GDP ($198 m) starting in 2005. The approved fiscal package
includes reforms to twelve different laws in a broad range of areas (e.g., tax code, penal code,
financial sector, customs). Most significantly, the reforms include a significant broadening of
the tax base of the value added and income tax, eliminating banking secrecy laws for the
purposes of tax audits and the introduction o f prison terms for tax evaders. In December 2004
the Assembly approved increases in excise taxes on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, beer,
guns, ammunitions and explosives. This additional reform is expected to yield an additional
0.2% of GDP starting in 2005. Revenues from this initiative will formally fund the Health
Sector Fund (Fondo Solidario para la Salud) which will help increase health coverage,
specially in the poorest regions of the country. Table 2 presents a breakdown o f the estimated
fiscal yield for 2005 of the fiscal reforms approved in 2004.        The government has also
announced it intends to monitor carefully tax revenues and i s committed to act with new
revenue generating measures if collections do not yield the desired targets. Recent efforts to
improve the collection efficiency of the tax administration, responsible for significant
additional revenues in2004, will also be continued.




                                               16

                                           Table 2
                          Expected Yield of Tax Reforms in2005
                                                      Expected        %
                  Area                               Yield ($m) Of GDP
                  Tax Code Reforms                       51.1        0.3 1
                  Income Tax Law Reforms                 15.2        0.09
                  Value Added Tax Reforms                31.7        0.20
                  Tax Administration efforts             57.7        0.35
                  Fiscal Amnesty                         12.0        0.07
                  Excise Taxes                           30.0        0.18
                  Total                                  197.7       1.20

50.   On the expenditure front, the Saca administration has submitted a 2005 budget
consistent with a fiscal deficit of 3 % of GDP. The budget includes a freeze on public sector
wages, while protecting social and growth expenditure priorities.

51.   In the pension front, the government acted promptly by obtaining legislative
approval of the elimination of provisions that allow for early retirement. This change is
expected to reduce fiscal costs by about 1 % of GDP over the next five years (2005-2009).
Going forward, the government expects to redesign the financing structure of the pension
system to contain its fiscal impact.

52. Several areas of action are envisioned to reduce contingent liabilities derived from
financial institutions and to strengthen the sector more broadly. The government plans to
present new legislation in early 2005 (a Financial Supervision Law) to strengthen supervisory
power, including the regulation of financial conglomerates. Supervisory power will be
strengthened by providing legal protection for the Superintendent and SSF staff, and by
establishing their tenure and terms for removal. Financial regulators also plan to issue in2005
new rules on loan classification and provisioning, and on credit risk administration, consistent
with international best practices. In addition, the Government i s designing a strategy to
transform public banks into vehicles of an essentially fiduciary nature, with no access to third
party funds.

C.PUBLICSECTORMODERNIZATION

53. Reforms in public sector modernization were started in El Salvador in 1994 and
were strengthened in 1999 in order to improve service delivery, address the
overextensionand centralization of the State, as well as reform outdated and inadequate
administrative infrastructures. Important accomplishments to date include: (i)the
successful restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works, transforming it into a policy
ministry and spinning-off the maintenance activities to the private sector, with significant
efficiency gains; (ii) development of a human resources management system for the public
sector including design o f tools for selection, evaluation, classification, remuneration and
promotion of government employees; (iii)issuance and implementation of modern financial
management, procurement, tax, and customs legislation and the introduction of integrated



                                              17

financial management and tax information systems; and (iv) partial decentralization of public
services inwater and health.

54. The new government is committed to deepening these efforts in the overall public
sector, as reflected in its plan "Safe Country." This agenda aims to improve the efficiency
of public expenditures, strengthen governance and, ultimately, create an environment more
conducive to investment and growth. During the next four years, the government intends to
continue restructuring public sector institutions, improving human resource management,
increasing the efficiency and transparency of resources transferred to municipalities,
modernize regulatory entities, and strengthen the judiciary.      However, in the immediate
future, the authorities plan on focusing on three elements that are at the core of public sector
reform in the context of this program: Procurement reform, e-government, and financial
management.


55.   A major reform of government procurement processeswas launchedwith approval
of the Law on Public Sector Procurement and Contracting (LACAP) in M a y 2000. The
Procurement Policy Office (UNAC) was established by the Law within de Ministry o f
Finance to exercise effective leadership in policy development and oversight of the Public
Procurement System. To this end, UNAC has recently obtained approval by the Council o f
Ministers of the 2005 Procurement Policy for the Public Sector. Key challenges in ensuring a
successful implementation of the new legislation are outlined in the recently completed
CPAR, carried out by the Bank and the IADB, and include (i)          issuing regulations to the
Procurement Law, which i s awaiting approval o f the Secretaria Juridica and expected to be
obtained shortly, (ii) strengthening the capacity in all government agencies and municipalities
to carry out procurement, and (iii) strengthening o f UNAC with additional technical staff and
resources so it can exercise its effective leadership in policy development and oversight. The
2005 Policy lists as one of its specific objectives the implementation of a module for
dissemination of information of COMPRASAL, a component of e-government, which will
constitute a technological tool which i s expected to improve competition and transparency in
public procurement. It i s envisioned that COMPRASAL in its more advanced stages will
allow for procurement transactions on line, which future DPLs will support amongst other
activities of the reform.

56.   Important initiatives in e-government have been launched to improve service
delivery and availability of information for the public. An official e-government strategy
has been approved and a number of online services have begun operation, including 12
finance and customs services (including licenses, exporthmport declarations, and submission
of statistical information), and the online payment o f taxes and customs duties.          Key
challenges include the establishment of a central payments portal for government services, the
introduction of e-procurement (initially through an information portal on government
purchases), and the further expansion of e-services to other areas.

57. The government is also well poised to push to deepen the public financial
management (PFM) management reform process, building upon modern PFM
legislation that has significantly improved the framework and processes of budget
formulation, execution and reporting. Challenges inthis area are spelled out inthe recently



                                                18

completed CFAA, carried out jointly by the Bank and the IADB, and include (i)       increased
transparency o f budgetary documentation and development of a medium term budget
framework, (ii)  upgrading of the technological platform supporting the financial and payroll
management systems, (iii)   compilation, consolidation and analysis of municipal budget data,
(iv) improvements in content and external oversight of government financial information, and
(v) more effective internal controls and internal audits. A noteworthy step in this area has
been the recent government adoption of a framework for internal controls consistent with
international standards.

                              IV.    THE PROPOSEDLOAN

A. LINKS CAS AND ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
          TO

58.   The Bank Group's assistance over FY05-08 i s elaborated in a new Country Assistance .
Strategy that proposes a strategic program of lending and non-lending services to support the
three main pillars of the government's development plan "Safe Country 2004-2009: (i)       to
accelerate broad-based, equitable economic growth and increase employment; (ii)   to improve
equity through building human capital and expanding access to socioeconomic infrastructure,
assets and markets; and (iii)to enhance security and reduce vulnerability.

59. The central component of the Bank's a proposed assistance strategy inElSalvador
would be a programmatic series of Development Policy Loans (DPL)to support the Saca
government's medium-term development strategy to accelerate broad based and
equitable economic growth as elaborated in this program document. As stated at the
outset of this document, the series o f DPLs would be intended to contribute to the
Government's objectives of (i)reigniting growth, particularly through increased private
investment and trade, (ii)reinforcing macroeconomic stability and strengthening fiscal
sustainability, and (iii)increasing the efficiency and transparency o f public sector
management. The design of key prior actions, triggers and indicators (listed in Annex 2) are
underpinned by a substantial body o f analytic work carried out by the Bank in partnership
with the government of El Salvador over the last few years, including the five core diagnostic
reports. This first DPL operation focuses on the fiscal measures undertaken to meet the
challenges of stemming debt growth and preserving space for key growth and social
investments, following recommendations presented inthe PER. It also devotes attention to the
early stages of the growth agenda, with special emphasis on trade related mesures.

60. Future DPL operations are expected to shift gradually to focus on the international
trade, business environment, capital markets and infrastructure areas. Focus on these
areas will draw on the Investment Climate Assessment, the REDI, technical assistance to
enhance public-private participation in infrastructure, and a Country Environmental Analysis
which will review the policy and institutional framework and make recommendations,
especially in relation to the environmental policy framework for infrastructure development
andfor the expansion of trade and investment that is expected under DR-CAFTA.

61. The entire DPL series will support gradual implementation of measures identified
in the CFAA and CPAR to enhance governance, transparency and efficiency in public
spending, as well as other government initiatives inpublic sector modernization.



                                               19

B. LESSONSLEARNED

62. The Bank has no recent experience with adjustment lending to El Salvador. The
biggest obstacle to implementation of the lending programs envisioned in the last two Country
Assistance Strategies for El Salvador (discussed at Boardin Feb 1997 and Nov 2002) was the
difficulty faced by the Executive in obtaining Assembly support for ratification of external
loans. The new government believes that the DPL series proposed in the context of the new
CAS (FY05-09) will help it overcome this issue. By incorporating DPLs within the budget
presentedto the Assembly, the Executive expects to have greater leverage as this would call
attention to the lower cost of borrowingWorld Bankresources incontrast to alternatives.

63. OED evaluations of Policy Reform Loans in the 1990s presented the following
lessons:

     (i)Multi-tranching contributes to slow implementation, particularly if it contributes to
          making the operation overly complex;

     (ii)Classicalex-postconditionalityweakensreformownership;
     (iii)Rapidly changing policy environments are difficult to anticipate inloan design.

C. DESIGNOFDPL

64. The design of this new lending approach takes into account the lessons learned
from past operations inSalvador and the latest thinking on Development Policy Lending
for well performing middle income countries.* The underlying principles of this operation
are the following:

          (i) Upfront action instead of ex-post conditionality: This loan has been
         triggered by the new government's commitment to build on the country's strong
         record of policy performance record to consolidate fiscal accounts and restore broad-
         based growth; andby specific and significant policy actions toward those ends.

         (ii) Supportofreformprograminsteadofspecificconditionality.TheDPLand
         the programmatic approach will support a broad government reformprogram. Lack of
         reform progress in a specific area can be compensated with actions in others if the
         overall reform program remains on track.

         (iii) Aligningprogramloanswithbudgetarycycle.Theproposedprogrammatic
         approach is designed to become a predictable low cost source of financing for the
         government.

65. Starting with the second DPL in the program, loans would be presented to the
Assembly for approval in the third quarter of the calendar year, so that they can be
incorporated inthe Budget before its formal presentation to the Assembly on September


  World Bank 2004. Programmatic Adjustment lending retrospective, and World Bank 2004: Good Practice
Note:DesigningDevelopmentPolicy Operations, http://intresources.worldbank.org/ INTCOUNTECONOMICSI
Resources/Designingdevelopment90204.pdf


                                                 20

30. This implies that there will be a relatively short turnaround time between the first
and second DPLs in the series, as this first operation will come in late in the budget cycle,
and i s currently expected to be submitted for legislative approval in the first quarter of 2005.
As explained below, a more thorough evaluation of progress inmeetingthe targets of the DPL
agenda (includingthe fiscal reforms of 2004) will take place inearly 2006.

D.PROGRAMMATIC        FRAMEWORK

66.   The proposed DPL is part of a programmatic approach that supports actions in
three areas: (i)reigniting growth, (ii)macro stability and fiscal consolidation, and (iii)
public sector modernization. It is expected that in the early DPLs, more emphasis would be
placed on the second area (fiscal consolidation) and that the emphasis would shift gradually
towards the first area of structural measures to enhance growth in the latter loans. The entire
program i s expected to support actions in public sector modernization. A policy framework i s
included in Annex 2. The key measures highlighted as prior actions for this DPL are the
following (see referredparagraphs for further details):

Reigniting Growth
      1)    DR-CAFTA Treaty signed and dissemination program launched (p.14 and 36);
      2)    Legislative approval of new Competition Law (p.40);
      3)    Reduction of costs and time inbusiness registration andoperation for SMEs
            through creation of "Centro de Tramites Empresariales" (p.41);

Macroeconomic and Fiscal Consolidation
      4)    Approval of package of fiscal reforms (corresponds to the modification of 12laws
            approved in October 2004) (p.49);
      5)    Elimination of early retirement provisions (p. 51);


Public Sector Modernization
      6)    Issuance o f operational directives for procurementunit (UNAC) and four year
            program for the implementation o f the public procurement system (p.55);
      7 )   Launch of an e-government strategy (p.56); and,
      8)    Progress in PFMimprovement program as evidencedb y issuance of a decree
            adopting public sector internal control norms consistent with international
            standards (p.57).


E.M&EARRANGEMENTS

67. The government and the Bank will take advantage of several important data
sources to assess progressfor the DPLs,including:

    0   Central and Nonfinancial public sector budget monitoring from the Ministry of
        Finance



                                                21

        National Directorate for Statistical and Census (DIGESTYC) reports

        Investment climate surveys
        Central Bank of El Salvador reports and analysis

        Reviews and analyses of laws and implementing regulations from the Bank and other
        stakeholders

        Financial audits and follow up of CPAR and CFAA recommendations
        Bank and IMFsupervision missions and reports
        Annual reports from the World Economic Forum

        Annual reports from Transparency International.

68. The government of El Salvador and the Bank have agreed to monitor progress in
the DPL program regularly, including at the annual reviews of CAS progress, when
revisions to the scale and timing of the Bank's lending program can be undertaken.
Discussions will be held with the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the main
counterpart agency for the loan, who will be incharge of M&E for the loan and for collecting
from the appropriate sources the data necessary to assess implementation progress. Other
agencies that will play an important role in this process are the Central Bank (for financial
sector issues), the Ministry o f Economics (for trade and investment climate issues) and the
Ministry of Finance.

69. Semi-annual reviews will take place between the Technical Secretariat and the
Bank team aimed at identifying areas of strengths and weaknesses and possible
assistance needed to maintain momentum toward the government's planned medium-
term outcomes and address possible downside risks. A mid-term review will be made in
the first quarter of 2006, when the government and the team will jointly evaluate progress in
achieving the outcomes laid out for the program. Indicative targets for this medium term
review include:

        Non maquila exports (excluding coffee) as a share of GDP at or above 8% of GDP by
        end 2005.

    0   FDIflows at least 1.5% of GDPin2005.

    0   "Centro de Trimites" created and cost of registering local businesses reduced by at
        least 50%.

        At least one infrastructure concession launched.

    0   Tax revenues at or above 13% of GDP by end 2005.

    0   NFPS deficit with pensions at or below -3.0% of GDPby end 2005.




                                               22

F.POVERTYANDSOCIALIMPACTANALYSIS

70. The task team considers that PSIA is not needed prior to disbursement because
most of the specific policy measures that are supported by this loan are not expected to
have significant negative poverty or social impacts. O f the major components that are
supported inthe program, the implementation of the DR-CAFTA agreement expected in 2005
will be the subject of a PSIA, as it may exert negative impacts on the incomes of some
segments o f Salvadoran society that have been hitherto protected. The task of the PSIA would
be to assess the impact of DR-CAFTA on the poor and to identify potential effects on
protected segments. This study would complement the regional ESW the that Bank has been
conducting on the expected overall impact of the DR-CAFTA agreement in the Central
America region and the complementary measures required leverage its opportunities
(scheduled for delivery in FY05). A draft of the study was discussed at a regional conference
in San Salvador inFebruary 2004 andbackground papers sponsored by the bank on this topic
have been disseminated. Box 1summarizes preliminary findings.

71. PSIA on the fiscal and pension measures undertaken under the program is also
planned to be conducted during 2005. While the bulk of the fiscal reforms supported under
this operation are not expected to have a significant impact on the poor, the study will assess
the distributive impact of the Salvadoran tax code and of further changes to the most
significant taxes. In addition, a PSIA of recent and potential future changes to the pension
regime will be undertaken. Resultsfrom these studies will be presented to government and are
expected to feed the policy dialogue for further DPLs.




                                              23

                BOX 1:ACTIONSTO MAXIMIZEDR-CAFTA OPPORTUNITIESFOR ELSALVADOR

    Education and knowledge absorption and generation: DR-CAFTA is likely to bolster FDI and imports with
    the capacity to improve technology and productivity. However, to materialize the potential and enhance
    technological spillovers will require sufficient levels of human capital and an adequateknowledge and innovation
    system. Ineducation, this means that El Salvadorneeds to closeits `gap in skills', expandingcoverageand quality
    of its primary and secondary schooling system. In the innovation front, it will need to boost the quality of its
    institutions of research, increase expenditures on R&D and develop links between public researchers and private
    sector users. There are important synergies to be exploited between a functioning innovation system and critical
    higher education initiatives.
    Institutional development and governance: El Salvador has achieved considerableprogress in the institutional
    and govemancefront over the past decade. However, serious deficiencies still exist, particularly in the rule of law
    and personal security front, as evidencedby corruption, violence and crime indicators. Weaknesses inrule of law
    are part of the reason for the apparent low growth yield of reforms in El Salvador in recent years. To reap the
    rewards of DR-CAFTA, continued improvement in institutions i s required, especially those aimed to improve the
    rule of law and fight corruption. This will require substantial local efforts, as such improvements have not been
    automatic byproducts of North-South free trade agreements.
    Infrastructure: While El Salvador has made great strides in modemizing its infrastructure (esp. airports and
    roads) in recent years, there are deficiencies that need to be addressed, particularly in road networks and ports.
    The experience of Mexico has shown that the southem provinces have lagged behind the rest of the country in
    taking advantageof the growth opportunities offered by NAFTA, principally because of low educationlevels, and
    weak transport and communications infrastructure. To allow all regions of El Salvador to benefit from DR-
    CAFTA, strategic investmentsininfrastructure will be required, with increasedemphasis on lagging regions.
    Macroeconomic management: Investors should be attracted by El Salvador's record of stable macroeconomic
    managementof recent years. Potential fiscal losses associated with DR-CAFTA will need to be compensatedand
    macroeconomicmanagement strengthened. Within the dollarization framework, the Central Bank's role as lender
    of last resort to the financial system needs to be bolstered and efforts must be redoubled to ensure compliance
    with strict prudential norms and regulations. Further fiscal consolidation will also be required in order to pursue
    effective counter cyclical policies.
    Trade policy: Inaddition to strengtheninginstitutions related to meeting DR-CAFTA commitments in the trade
    administration sphere, El Salvador is likely to benefitfrom continuing to pursue its agenda of unilateral, bilateral
    and multilateral actions to expand trade and broader integration opportunities. Deepening trade and other links
    with regional neighbors through the CACM will improve allocation of resources in the region and provide
    economies of scale neededto launch new viable export ventures. Further progressin reaching FTAs with Canada,
    the European Union and with other Latin American countries through FTAA will further broaden economic
    integration and minimize any possibletrade diversion effects from existing FTAs.
    Broadening the benefits of CAFTA: Attention i s also requiredto ensure that benefits of DR-CAFTA are spread
    across all levels of Salvadoran society. This includes policies to foster development of financial services beyond
    large companies, so that MSMEs have access to finance. This i s likely to require legal and institutional
    shortcomings regarding the protection of creditor and shareholder rights. Specially targeted programs for low
    income farmers/laborers may also be neededfor those who are likely to be displaced from their current activities.
    to facilitate a smooth transition to other areas with more growth potential.

Source: The World Bank, El Salvador CEM, 2004.



G.ENVIRONMENTALNATURAL      AND                  RESOURCES ASPECTS

72. Specific actions under the proposed first DPL are not expected to have any
significant negative environmental impact. However, the Bank has begun to work with the
government on preparation of a Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) to be finalized in
FY06, in an effort to support its capacity to assess and mitigate environmental consequences
o f development policies. The CEA will be timed so as to support implementation of measures
in future DPL which are expected to give more emphasis to structural growth actions,
including investments in infrastructure. The CEA would develop a sound analytic


                                                            24

understanding of the country and sector-wide institutional set-up and policy framework and
provide guidance and advice to the government's national environmental strategy and policy,
currently under development. The Analysis will be done in close coordination with the
planned Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure Report (REDI) diagnostic to
provide the government with particular recommendations that would be relevant as it pursues
new policies to spur sustainable infrastructure development. It will also pay special attention
to needs that may arise out of the expansion of trade and investment that i s expected under
DR-CAFTA and will make recommendations on how to mitigate any possible adverse
impacts of this treaty.

H.FIDUCIARY     ASPECTS

73. El Salvador's fiduciary environment for DPLs is adequate. As part of the
government's     overall long-term focus on public sector modernization, significant
improvements in the performance of budget and procurement management institutions have
been made over the past decade.         To document the current state of public financial
management in the country and propose priorities for action, the World Bank and the IADB
carried out in 2004 a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and a Country
Procurement Assessment (CPAR). The key findings and recommendations are summarized in
Box 2. While overall findings indicate that the environment i s solid, the current government
i s moving ahead to further strengthen its public fiduciary control framework, building on this
foundation, as described in Section I11of this document. In connection to this, the Bank i s
actively engaged in public financial management dialogue with the government to follow up
on recommendations made through the CFANCPAR. Drawing from this ongoing work,
certain key policy actions in the context of the DPL program have been agreed (see Annex 2).
In addition, the Bank plans to continue policy dialogue with the Government in public
financial management (PFM) using selective milestones, which define specific elements of
the PFM improvement program to help track its progress (see Annex 3). The PFM milestones
are focused on four areas that support the implementation of internal control norms consistent
with international standards: (i)quality of budget formulation and reporting; (ii)
                                                                                 coverage and
technological platform of integrated financial management (SAFI) and human resources
(SIRH) systems; (iii)   transparency of municipal finances; and (iv) scope and coverage of
external audits.




                                               25

              Box2: CFAA and CPAR: Summary of FindingsandRecommendations

 The Country Financial Accountability Assessment Report(CFAA) and the CountryProcurementAssessment Report (CPAR),
 prepared jointly with the IADB, analyze the performance and transparency of budget and procurement management
 institutions and systems in the public sector. The analysis and recommendationscontained in these reports seek to identify
 areas where further improvements in public financial management could help to strengthen fiscal discipline, increase
 operationalefficiency, and improvethe country'sgovernanceenvironment.

 The analysis concludes that the Government has built strong foundations for well-functioning budget and procurement
 management systems, with a basison modemlegislation. Still, the wideningpublic sector deficit and deterioratinggovernance
 indicators pose important challenges ahead. Accordingly, a detailed set of recommendations has been put forward to the
 Government- abrief summaryfollows:

            Civil service. Further strengtheningof the financial and procurement management institutionswill benefit from the
           implementation of the government's plans for a renovated legal and regulatory framework for human resource
           managementandincreasedmanagerialaccountability.
           Budget development. The sound methodologies used for budget formulation could serve as basis to improve
           disclosureof extra-budgetaryfunds, to aggregate and consolidate municipalbudget data, to develop a mediumterm
           budget framework, to enhance informationandindicatorson the public investment program, and to bring the budget
           documentationup to internationalstandards.
           Tax administration. The modem revenueadministrationsystems could benefit from stronger coordinationamong
           the agencies involved, together with enhancements in the prosecutionand sanctioningof tax and customs-related
           cases.
           Procurement management. The significant steps taken with the creationof a centralregulatorybody (UNAC) and
           decentralizedprocurement units (UACIs) can be better sustained through systematic staff training and technical
           assistance, issuanceof regulationsto the procurementlaw, andharmonizationof bidding andcontract documents.
           Budget execution. The integratedfinancial management system (SAFI) has significantly improvedthe procedures
           and information on government spending, but there is still work ahead to develop or consolidate related
           administrative systems; most notably, the upgradingof the payroll management system, and the development of a
           comprehensiveprocurement information system (under the e-Governmentinitiative), coupled with tools to monitor
           procurement performance.
       I   Debt. Active debt management will requirethe introduction of continuing programsfor skills development in this
           highly specialized area- such programs to includethe capacity to undertake systematic debt sustainabilityand risk
           analyses.
       I   Internal controls. Implementationof a more effective internal control and internal audit framework, based upon
           risk-basedapproaches, will bekey to further guaranteeefficiency andlegality of public expenditures.
           Financial reporting and external oversight. The accounting function, which i s properly institutionalized and
           shows sophisticated advances, could serve as basis for further improvements in the content and accessibility of
           financial information. Comprehensive financial and procurement audits from the Court of Accounts, together with
           strengthenedlegislativeoversight, would help fill current gaps in externalfiscal control.


I.LOAN      ADMINISTRATION

74. Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower i s the Republic of El Salvador and this
operation i s a single-tranche loan of US$ 100million equivalent that would be made available
upon loan effectiveness.

75. Fundsflow arrangements. The Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into an account of
the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) denominated in U S dollars which are legal tender in the
c o ~ n t r y .The BCR will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the Ministry o f
               ~
Finance's Treasury Single Account ("Fond0 General"), thus becoming available to finance


 The IMF's most recent safeguards assessment of the BCR (stage one) concluded that the safeguards in place
appear generally adequate. The BCR subsequently made important progress in implementing the assessment's
recommendations, such as restructuring the Audit Committee, continuing its migration to international financial
reporting standards, and disclosing better the financial information in the public realm.




                                                            26

budgeted expenditures.     Within a week of this operation, the Ministry will accordingly
provide the Bank with a written confirmation. If, after deposit inthe BCR, the proceeds of the
Loan are not used as determined above (including use for ineligible purposes as defined in the
Loan Agreement), the Bank will require the government to promptly refund the disallowed
amount.

76. Given that there is adequate knowledge about the soundness of central bank control
environment and the country's public financial management system, as well as Government
commitment to continue their strengthening, additional fiduciary arrangements (such as the
use of a dedicated deposit account) have not been deemed necessary inthis case.


J. BENEFITS

77. The proposed DPL i s an appropriate vehicle to simultaneously support fiscal needs,
policy reform, and the Bank's relationship with El Salvador.

78. Meeting fiscal needs. Board approval and disbursement early in calendar year 2005 of
this proposed loan would help meet the government's objective of diversifying financing
sources, as well as provide financing on more favorable terms than alternatives for its 2005
budget. This, in turn, would support the government's concurrent goals of fiscal stabilization
and addressing social needs through increased and more efficient spending.

79. Endorsement of sound policy and vehicle for dialogue. Most o f the                   reforms
undertaken for this DPL were discussed with the Bank and were influenced b y the joint
analytical work, including the PER, the CEM, the regional CAFTA analytic work, the CFAA
and the CPAR. The proposed DPL would be a recognition of the reform achievements thus
far. Timely support by the Bank would also be important in forming the basis for strong
engagement with the new government on forward looking policy actions within the
framework of a new Country Assistance Strategy. The Letter of Development Policy indicates
the new administration's commitments on a range of issues where the Bank has either worked
with the government to prepare analytical work or has plans to do so. The DPL instrument
would provide a vehicle for continuity in policy dialogue on the range of issues which will
form the basis of future DPLs. The DPL would also contribute to enhancing the Bank's
reputation as a reliable development partner.

K.RISKSANDMITIGATION

80. The long-term success of the proposed operation faces various risks which can only be
partially addressedinthe context of this operation and the new Country Assistance Strategy.

81. Fiscal risk. El Salvador's current NFPS debt burden, approaching 40 % of GDP,
increases its vulnerability to potential shocks. Such fiscal vulnerabilities are further
compounded by El Salvador's dollarized regime, which constrains potential macroeconomic
responses in times of stress. As rating agencies have increasingly voiced over the past year, a
credible plan to address the fiscal area i s required to prevent a deterioration o f El Salvador's
hardearned creditworthiness. As discussed earlier in this document, the Saca administration



                                                27

i s aware o f the country's fiscal vulnerabilities, and i s putting in practice a credible plan to
address them.

82. Political risk. On the political front, a divided Assembly could become an obstacle to
important reforms, despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by President Saca. The
inability to push through measures to increase tax revenues and control expenditures would
likely raise public debt, which could adversely affect investor sentiment and the availability of
external finance. Likewise, failure to move on financial sector reform could lead to a
weakening of the sector's soundness and eventual materialization of contingent liabilities. To
date, the government's approach to consensus building appears to be bearing fruit, but
political obstacles to reform can not yet be fully ruled out. Potentially tense relations with the
Assembly could also impede prompt ratification of external loans, including this DPL,
limiting access to funds for social development or forcing use of higher cost financing. The
government expects that concurrent submission of the DPLs and the annual budget (or, in this
case, soon after) to the Assembly will give it the leverage needed for prompt loan ratification.

83.   External risk. Going forward, sustained high oil prices or a new international recession
could negatively affect El Salvador's economy and worsen debt dynamics. A factor which i s
bound to have a potentially negative impact i s the scheduled end o f textile quotas by 2005 in
the United States and other markets, which i s expected to intensify competition from China
and other Asian countries. While there i s still uncertainty about the precise impact on El
Salvador's export demand and growing indications that the U.S. i s likely to use safeguard
measures to replace current import restraints from Asia, some plant closures and job losses
over the past year suggest that much of the adjustment to this announced regime change i s
likely to have already taken place. In addition, given the increase in public debt of recent
years, an increase in international interest rates poses risks o f unexpected additional financing
costs. The government has expressed interest in using a Master Derivatives Agreement
(MDA) anduse of the Bank's financial products to help mitigate some of these risks.

84. Naturaldisaster risk. Finally, the country remains vulnerable to natural disasters (e.g.,
earthquakes and hurricanes) which can hurt the performance o f the economy in the short-term
and may require significant unanticipated expenditures for emergency assistance and
reconstruction. The government's focus on improving fiscal responsibility and restoring
broad-based growth while building a stronger social safety net, position it to better absorb
such shocks in the future. However, near-term disaster couldjeopardize medium-term reform
targets.

           V.      COORDINATIONWITH DONORS AND STAKEHOLDERS

85.   Since the Saca administration took office, the Bank has worked closely with the
Government, other donors, civil society, and the private sector to develop the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bank's CAS - where the framework for the
proposed DPL was first presented - was widely discussed in several forums. Consultations
were held in San Salvador in October, 2004. The consultations on the CAS centered on a one-
day workshop attended by approximately 150 participants, including representatives of the
executive branch of government, the judicial sector, members of Salvadoran Assembly, local
governments, academia and think-tanks, foundations, civil society, the international donor



                                                 28

community, the private sector and media. Participants discussed the findings and
recommendations of recent Bank analytical studies and provided input on proposed areas of
future Bank assistance including the proposed series of DPL's. In addition, a series o f smaller
meetings were held with specific stakeholder groups to solicit their views on how the Bank
could best support El Salvador over the next four years. Annex D of the CAS provides a
summary of the key points of the discussions. Overall, responses and views were positive.
Some stakeholders were concerned about the recent increase in the level and cost of external
debt in El Salvador and asked the Bank to help the Government to develop a debt
management strategy. Inthis context, most participants welcomed the proposed Development
Policy Lending approach as a way to lower the costs of external financing. There was general
support for DPLs as a appropriate way for the Bank to support the country's own development
strategy and priorities, as long as efforts continued to strengthen the transparency and
effectiveness of budget expenditures.

86. The Bank has also worked closely with the IMF and other donors during the
preparation of the DPL. The IMF and the Bank have coordinated during the CAS
preparation process and the preparation of the proposed DPL which has coincided with the
regular preparation for the Article I V report. Teams from both institutions have shared their
own debt sustainability analysis work. Major donors have been informed of the Bank's work
program and were consulted during the CAS preparation process. The European Community
and the Inter-American Development Bank welcome the concept of providing support to the
Government's own development program and priorities through quick disbursing budget
support. Indeed, the Inter-American Development Bank i s also supporting the new
administration with a fast-disbursing budget support loan for competitiveness.

87. The DPL public information document has been made public. The Bank team plans
to ensure continued engagement by multiple stakeholders in relation to the DPL objectives by
holding workshops, roundtable discussions, and working groups to discuss progress on the
specific reform benchmarks and advise on progress, impact, implementation capacity and
timing.




                                               29

                             Annex 1:Letter of Development Policy




                            Presidency of the Republic of El Salvador
                                  Secretary of TechnicalAffairs


San Salvador, January 21,2005

                                                                            ST/CAPRES/MS/OlO


Mr. JamesD.Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:

The Government of President Elias Antonio Saca has requested from the World Bank a
program of Development Policy Loans (DPL), "Broad-Based Growth," for U S $400 million.
These resources will be used for improvements inthe country's external indebtedness profile.

The Government Plan 2004-2009, "Safe Country," has several ambitious goals and i s based
on three axes of action: Economic & Employment Growth, Equity, and Security. Below, you
will find the most important measures to be undertaken b y this administration to promote
economic growth and the creation ofjobs - particularly those that will use the support of the
DPLprogram. A description of future plans inthe areas of Equityand Security can be found
inthe Government Planitself.

The Government recognizes that three areas are crucial to the success o f the Government Plan
"Safe Country." First, the Government i s working to establish the conditions to accelerate
economic growth and create jobs, and, consequently, increase tax revenue and decrease
poverty levels. Second, it i s taking actions to strengthen public finances with the goals of
stabilizing the fiscal situation, decreasing debt levels, and increasingthe budget allocated to
expenditures in social arena and growth areas. Third, the Government will continue its efforts
to modernize the public sector, in order to achieve greater efficiency inthe use of fiscal
resources.



                                                                                           .......2/


                                                 30

Page 2

Creation of Jobs and Economic Growth

Free Trade

Since the beginning o f the 1990s,El Salvador has been committed to leverage the great
opportunities that result from free trade and globalization as an important tool to enabling a
sustainable economic growth. Especially important in our agenda for trade openness, i s the
recent signing, and subsequent ratification by the Legislative Assembly, of the Free Trade
Agreement with Dominican Republic, Central America and the UnitedStates of America
(DR-CAFTA), which provides great advantages for the Salvadoran economy. Duringthe
process of negotiations and ratification of the Treaty, there was significant participation from
the various sectors, which gave way to a process of diffusion of information to the entire
population.

Inaddition, we have free trade agreements with Chile, Panama, Mexico, and the Dominican
Republic, and are advancing toward becoming integrated with other strategic trading partners
-includingtheEuropeanUnionandCanada.Atthesametime,wehavemadeimportant
progress and will continue to work in our regional integration agenda with Central America
countries, since the region i s the platform through which we want to become part of the
widest-reaching trade flows.

Leveraging DR-CAFTA

The globalization process and of course the DR-CAFTA, in addition to creating opportunities,
also presents us with great challenges we must face inorder to leverage new opportunities.
For this reason, our policies are focused on creatingthe necessary conditions to raise the level
of competitiveness o f our country and of our firms.

Especial relevance i s attributed to technological innovation and the promotion of quality -
essential elements to access the developed markets where we expect to sell our products and
services inthe future. For this reason, we will define a technology development policy, to
serve as the basis to create the National System for Technological Innovation. This System
will include some instruments as a Technology Research Fundand a statistical system to
measure productivity. We plan to strengthen co-investment funds for the innovation and
adoption of new technologies incompanies. And we will revise the organizational focus of
our National Council o f Science and Technology (CONACYT).

Additionally, we are working to promote a National Quality Program, focused on the public
and private sectors, to streamline the use of quality regulations, and strengthen our systems
for certification and accreditation. Finally, we will create an integrated agency for the
promotion of investments and exports.



                                                                                               ..3/

                                                31

Page 3

Support for Micro, Small and Medium SizedEnterprises

Micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) are of fundamental importance inthe
creation ofjobs and the battle against poverty, since they represent a significant portion of the
employed population. By usingnew free trade agreements, domestic businesses have a greater
chance to merchandize their products and services in a much larger market -whether it i s
through direct exports, indirect exports through specialized channels, or by becoming
providers o f raw materials, products and services for exporters.

For this reason, we will adopt several measures to improve the competitiveness of our
MSMEs in this new environment. Incollaboration with the private sector, we have already
signed agreements to generate funds for the productive upgrading of enterprises and sectors
that will be affectedb y further liberalization of trade. Additionally, we are developing a
strategy for companies to have greater access to information and communication
technologies. We will strengthen the elements they currently possessby providing them with
access to training and technical support. And, finally, we will promote alliances among
private sector firms.

At the same time, we are working to the cut costs and the time it takes companies to register
and begin operating inthe country. For this purpose, we have created an Enterprise
Transaction Center, which we will later extend to locations outside of San Salvador. With
this, we are looking to decreasecosts to levels at or below regional averages, as measuredby
the World Bank's Cost of Doing Business Annual Report.

Market Performance

The modernization process of the public sector that propelledprivate participation inthe
provision of key public services has been successful. It has enabled greater coverage and
accessibility. However, in some cases it i s deemed that provision of these services could be
improved. Therefore, it i s necessary to revise and strengthen the regulatory frameworks to
ensure that prices are not hidingmarket or operator inefficiencies, which would be
detrimental to households.

For this reason, the Government of President Saca i s strengthening policies associated with
market performance and consumer defense, and has already taking decisive actions inthese
areas.




                                                                                          .......4/


                                                32

Page4

Followingtwelve years o f failed attempts, on December 2004, the Legislative Assembly
successfully approved a competition law, which seeks to remove the obstacles and
anticompetitive practices among companies to prevent the entry of new competitors, or to
eliminate the barriers erected to prevent the expansion of existing rivals. Inaddition, a
PresidentialCommissioner for Consumer Defense has been appointed who i s currently
working on the creation of a new legal framework to strengthen the State actions to protect
the consumer's rights.

Investment Climate

The aforementioned policy measures will improve the investment climate by increasing
the returns and decreasing the risks of investing in El Salvador. Inaddition, we are working to
improve the investment climate to promote investment, and we will soon submit draft
legislation to the assembly to develop the areas of securization and mutual funds, since the
existence of regulated instruments to provide a wide spectrum of riskheturn combinations i s a
key issue to attract investments. We are especially interested inimproving the legal
framework for economic activities, so we will be working in draft legislation for bankruptcy
proceedings, a Movable Assets Registry, Factoring, and reforms for the Code of Commerce.

Infrastructure

In the area of infrastructure, the ports and airports sectors have been modernizedthrough the
approval of the general laws and some of the regulations for the operation of the Maritime
Port Authority and CivilAviation Authority, which we expect to complete inthe future. In
January 2004, the Government initiated the mega development project o f the L a Uni6n Port
which should substantially improve the distribution and storage services capacity inthe
country and which will provide an alternative to the Panama Canal through the connection to
a Honduran port in the Atlantic Ocean. Additionally, beginning on the first day of this year,
we have reduced tariffs for the Acajutla Port by 15%, and we are working on a request for bid
proposals for a master concession contract of the port.

With the support of the World Bank, we have initiated a study on the obstacles that the
current state of infrastructure imposes on trade, growth, and the sustained reduction of
poverty. This study shed light over the most important actions to eliminate said obstacles.
Givenlimitations inpublic financing, it is particularly important for the Government to
promote alliances between the public and private sectors for infrastructure projects.




                                                                                           ...SI



                                                 33

Page 5

Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Consolidation

Public Finance

ElSalvador enjoys macroeconomic stability, and is one of the few countries inLatinAmerica
with an investment grade. This stability i s a solid platform upon which we must build, since,
even though it is not sufficient, it i s an indispensable requirement to achieve economic
development and growth. Thus, we have taken steps to consolidate public finances, as we are
convinced that no Government i s able to fully meet its objectives without reliable assurance
of its fiscal effectiveness. For this reason, we have been conducting important reforms that
will enable us, untilthe year 2009, to increase tax revenues by three percentage points, and
decrease the fiscal deficit, while greater resources are allocated to social areas and other
investments necessary to accelerate growth.

Aware of the importance of fiscal sustainability, the first measures taken by this
Government focused on improving the state of public finances. On October 2004, a fiscal
reform was approved by the Legislative Assembly, consisting of the reform of 12bodies of
law with which we are closing fiscal gaps, expanding the tax base, and combating evasion.
More recently, legislation was approved to increase excise taxes, which will serve to fund the
health sector. Additionally, a plan has been launched to hire a significant number of additional
fiscal auditors in order to further decrease tax evasion. Finally, the Pension Savings System
Law was reformed, eliminating the early retirement. Inthe medium term, we will consider
alternatives for the pension system's financing structure, with the goal of limiting the impact
it has on public finances.

The Government i s looking to optimize management of the public debt portfolio and
investments inmanagement of risks, including those arising from changes inexchange rates
and/or interest rates, debt swaps, and financial investments, in order to cover from changes in
long term liabilities. For such purpose, we have requested technical assistance from the World
Bank, in order to develop and implement a strategy to manage our public debt.

Strengthening- the Financial System

We are on our way to strengthening the financial sector through the adoption of measures that
will enable optimum levels of supervision, an improved financial position for banks, and the
reduction of contingent liabilities generated by this sector.




                                                                                           .......6/



                                                   34

Page 6

The current supervision scheme, which includes three independent entities, limits the capacity
to monitor the financial conglomerates in a consolidated fashion. Therefore, it i s necessary to
define a new scheme and create a single entity, for which legislative changes are required. We
are working to define the structure of the new supervision entity and its relationship to the
Central Bank.Inaddition, we are working on a program of institutional strengthening, to
identify the most critical weaknesses in financial supervision and determine concrete actions
to address them.

We are currently undergoing the process of revising the policies used inloan classification
and provisioning, as well as credit risk management, to be consistent with international best
practices. The Superintendence for the Financial System plans to modify the policies
associated with classification of the risk assets portfolio, and the establishment of appropriate
corrective provisions in accordance with international best practices.

Aiming at having a strengthenedfinancial system, we will take the necessary steps to decrease
fiscal contingencies derived from the intermediation activities of public financial institutions
(Banco de Foment0 Agropecuario, Banco Hipotecario andThe Social Found for Housing)
through the creation of a new structure in which costs are financed transparently with fiscal
resources.

Modernization of the State

Government Procurement

The Government i s also seeking to improve public finances through transparency and
efficiency inpublic sector management. Currently, public institutions enjoy a modem law that
contributes to the transparency of their procurement activities. Draft regulations for this law
will be issued soon. We are also working to create manuals and instructions to facilitate
compliance with said law.

Electronic Government

Modem practices inpublic sector management require of use abundant information
technology to increase efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency. For this reason, the
Government launched an Electronic Government National Strategy. The implementation of
projects contemplated under this strategy has been recently initiated. The Payment Platform
and the Informational Module (MODDIV) will be operational inthe near future.




                                                                                           .......7/



                                                35

Page 7




The Payment Platform i s a system that enables electronic payment of transactions associated
with the provision of government services. The main goal i s to build a technology platform to
enable government institutions to provide this service online. For this purpose, the websites
from governmental entities and financial institutions will interact inreal time to receive,
validate and process payments, thus facilitating transactions, reducing costs, and procurement
savings.

The MODDIV is an interactive application that enables access to all Government requests for
bidproposals anddirect purchases. The provider will be able to register andrequest personal
notifications each time a purchase i s open for bidding. This module represents the first phase
of Comprusal - the virtual environment to conduct purchasing and contracting transactions
with the Government.

Internal Control Systems

The Government i s working to adopt and implement new regulations for internal control, so
as to create a more efficient and effective public administration to achieve the Government
Plan's greater goals.

A strategic planning system is being deployed, which requires the definition of organizational
structures, hierarchical levels, and control points for decision-making and system operability.
This also requires well-defined operational manuals and good working knowledge of themby
all members of the corresponding organization.

Inaddition, procurement plans arebeing created, linkedto the action plans of institutions,
guidedby a national Procurement and Contracting policy. The budget i s also linkedto the
action plans andcompliance with goals.

To accomplish the aforementioned objectives, operational manuals are being updated at the
institutional. The goal i s for manuals to describe all the points of entry, decision-making, and
output of processesinvolved inthe decision or financial impact. These manuals should be
consistent with international policies on internal control, which were recently enforcedby the
Court of Accounts of the Republic - public body devoted to promoting the efficiency of
public administration.




                                                                                           .......8/



                                                 36

Page 8

Conclusion

The Government of El Salvador i s committed to taking the necessary steps to promote
economic and employment growth, improve security, and progress inequality. The World
Bank supports us inthis effort through the DPLprogram and through funding for specific
projects. Even though we have not explained in detail the social agenda of this Government in
this letter, we are committed to implement social programs, aimed at expanding accessto
markets and basic services, including the coverage and quality of education and health care
for the poor, and developing a social safety net for the poorest and most vulnerable
Salvadorian families. We are certain that the current administration will be able to reach the
goals we have set forth to foster an El Salvador with more employment opportunities,
enhanced security and improved equity.




                                   EduardoZablah-Touch6
                           TechnicalSecretary for the Presidency
                            and Governorbeforethe WorldBank




                                              37

        l-




o  o




              00
              m



                              Annex 4: Debt Sustainability Analysis

ElSalvador's public sector debt has risen since 2000. Levels have risenby about 10% of
GDP in the period 2000-2003, taking the NFPS debt level to 40.6% of GDP by end 2003
reflecting earthquake reconstruction and pension reform costs.4 In 2004, NFPS debt declined
slightly to 40.5% of GDP due to a lower deficit and to the use of proceeds from the sale of
the remaining shares inthe telephone company.

 The structure of public debt has improved substantially since 2000. Gross financing needs
have declined, as ElSalvador has substituted most of its short-term debt with long-term
sovereign bonds in 2002. The average maturity of public debt has doubled to nearly 10
years, a reflection of increasinglyprudent debt management practices.

Under the government's planned policies, Bank projections indicate that NFPS debt
would stabilize over the medium term at about 38-39% of GDP. Between 2005 and 2009,
such a scenario assumes real GDP growth of 3 per cent per year, real interest rates at 3.7%
and a shift in the primary surplus from -0.7% to 1.1% of GDP. The scenario i s broadly
consistent with conclusions from the Bank's recent Public Expenditure Review and the
IMF's debt sustainability analysis from its recent Article IV exercise, although the latter
actually requires a smaller surplus to stabilize debt levels. The IMFnotes that public finances
would remain vulnerable to some shocks, despite relatively low gross financing needs (see
Box A4.1).

Alternative Growth Scenario

As indicated in Section I1 of this program document, El Salvador's growth prospects
should improve in 2005 and beyond, possibly surpassing the government's own
conservative estimates. The recent Bank's CEM indicates that in the absence of negative
external shocks, El Salvador's potential growth rates should improve to a range of at least 3.5
to 4%, about 1% above the observed growth levels over 1996-2001. Higher growth levels
would be explained from increased investment levels spurred by the implementation o f DR-
CAFTA and the complementary agenda described in Section 111, as well as from the phase
out of the negative effects of the exogenous shocks of recent years (e.g, earthquakes, low
commodity prices, international recession, changes in world textile markets).

Higher growth levels would improve debt dynamics. While revenues would be expected
to grow at the higher rates o f GDP expansion, debt servicing would become a proportionally
smaller burden. Hence, greater growth would yield additional fiscal resources with respect to
the base case, which would yield a faster debt reduction trajectory, if government policies
remain constant. Table A4.1 presents the results of an Alternative Fiscal Scenario in which
growth i s projected to increase to 3.5% in 2006 and 4.0% thereafter, while other parameters
follow the government's medium-term plan as reflected by the base case presented in Section
II.Insuchcircumstances,theoverallNFPSdeficitwouldbeslightlybelowtheBaseCase
scenario, but total public debt would decline at a faster pace. NFPS debt would reach 36.7%

  Total public sector debt is estimated at 46.1% of GDP for 2003. The difference with NFPS figures is
accountedby outstanding net debt of the Central Bankand other public banks.


                                                    41

by 2009. The materialization of this scenario would allow El Salvador to resolve fiscal
uncertainties sooner. Lower debt levels would mean that the country would enjoy greater
fiscal reaction space for counter-cyclical macro management in a dollarized economy, and
for responding to contingencies arisingfrom future natural disasters. This scenario i s similar
to one produced under the recent IMF Article IV exercise, which emphasized overall greater
national saving to avoid vulnerabilities in the current account (see Box A4.1).

Given the need for El Salvador to continue to make key growth-inducing public
investmentsinboth the humancapital and infrastructure areas, the new scenario would
also provide opportunities for accelerating some investments. This would require
prioritizing projects that require public financing and that could lead to a high growth payoff.
However, sizeable increases in public investments would lead to a tradeoff with the speed of
debt reduction. Ultimately, a fine balance will need to be struck between reducing debt to
manageable levels and addressing public investment needs for growth and social progress.


                                 Table A4.1: Alternative FiscalScenario
                                 Nonfinancial Public Sector Operations
                                         (as percentage of GDP)

                                                                                        ~

                                       2003     2004     2005    2006   2007  2008   2009
       Total Revenues (incl. Grants) 16.8%     16.8%    17.1%   17.0%  17.4% 17.9%   8.4%
          Tax Revenue                12.2%     12.2%    13.3%   13.6%  14.1% 14.6%   5.2%

       Total Expenditures            20.6%     19.3%   20.1%    19.3%  18.8% 18.8%   9.6%
        Current Expenditures         16.9%     16.7%    16.8%   16.3%  15.7% 15.3%   5.0%
           of which, Pensions          1.7%     1.8%     2.1%    2.2%   2.2%  2.1%   2.1%
        CapitalExpenditures            3.7%     2.6%     3.3%    3.0%   3.1%  3.5%   4.7%

       OverallNFPS Deficit           -3.7%     -2.5%    -3.0%   -2.3%  -1.4% -0.9%   -1.2%

       Total Public Debt             40.7%    40.5%    40.7%   40.6%   39.4% 37.8%  36.7%
       MemoItems:
          Real GDP Growth              1.8%     1.8%     3.0%    3.5%   4.0%  4.0%   4.0%




                                                   42

                                       Box A4.1
          The IMFandDebtSustainabilityinElSalvador

         In its recent draft Article IV consultation report of in January 2005, the IMF
conducted a public debt sustainability analysis for El Salvador, presenting three different
scenarios. In its baseline scenario, the IMFprojects that total public debt would stabilize
at about 47% of GDP (including financial public sector debt) over the medium term. This
scenario assumes that the authorities' planned policies will take place, resulting in a shift
in the primary balance from a deficit of 0.7% of GDP per year in 2005-06 to a small
surplus thereafter. The scenario also considers an increase in the real interest rate to 3.75%
over the period, as well as GDP growth of 3% per year, due to improved investment and
productivity. Under this scenario, the IMF report concludes that public finances would
remain vulnerable to shocks. While relatively low gross financing needs would provide
some protection against adverse shocks, a shift in market sentiment could heighten
fundingcosts and shorten averagematurity over time.

         Under a reinforced policy scenario, further fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms would improve debt dynamics. This scenario assumes a recovery in growth to 4%
per year and a primary surplus of 1% of GDP over the medium term, mainly a result of
further tax and expenditure reform. This would lead to a steady decline in the public debt
to under 43% of GDP by 2009, roughly equivalent to 37% o f GDP excluding current
financial public sector debt.

         A third and final adverse scenario is also presented, which highlights the
downside risks to the baseline scenario from fiscal slippages. Under such circumstances,
public debt would rise to nearly 55% of GDP by 2009. This scenario assumes that the
primary fiscal deficit remains at 0.7 percent of GDP over the period, and growth is the
same as in the baseline scenario.




                                              43

                                            Annex 5

                                                                    International Monetary Fund

January 19,2005                                                     700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                    Washington, D.C. 20431 USA



                              ElSalvador: FundRelations Note

El Salvador maintains a close policy dialogue with the IMF, and does not plan to seek a
formal arrangement. At the conclusion of the 2003 Article IV consultation (July 18, 2003),
the Executive Board praised El Salvador for its record of fiscal prudence and impressive
reforms since the early 1990s, even in the face of the adverse shocks. However, Directors
also noted a fiscal deterioration and sluggish growth in recent years, and encouraged the
authorities' to address these challenges. Inparticular, Directors urged the authorities to build
on the credibility of the dollarized regime by strengthening fiscal and financial sector
policies, and sustaining the structural reform effort.

During the 2004 Article IV consultation discussions (October 25-November 10, 2004), the
staff encouraged the authorities'ongoing efforts to strengthen the fiscal position and pursue
reforms with a view to improving growth prospects and fortifying the economy against
shocks. The authorities explained that strengthening tax collections, securing early approval
of CAFTA, and deepening banking reforms were key policy priorities.

A Board meeting to conclude the 2004 Article IV consultation is tentatively scheduled for
January 31, 2005. Following the IMFBoard meeting, the Bank's Executive Directors will be
updated on the state of El Salvador's relations with the IMF.




                                               44

                                                         Annex 6

                                    ElSalvador at a dance                                                                           9/15/04

                                                                       Latin     Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               El  America     middle-
                                                         Salvador   &Carib.     income       Development diamond*
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                 6.5       534       2,655                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          2,200      3,260       1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              14.4      1,741       3,934

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%)                                                 1.7       1.5         0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.9       2.1         1.2

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                         59        77          50
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                  70        71          69                          I
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                        33        28          32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                      12                    11           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)             77        86          81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                             20        11          10
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)          112        129         112       -l Salvador
    Male                                                      114        131         113        ___Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                    109        128         111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1983       1993      2002         2003      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  3.5        7.0      14.3        14.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      12.1      18.6       16.4        16.6
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                 24.5       19.4       26.7        27.6                        Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                          6.6        3.8        1.9         0.8
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                           5.6      15.1       13.7        13.0   II                      T
Current account balancdGDP                         -5.6       -7.5      -2.7         -3.7
Interest paymentslGDP                               2.0        1.7        1.5         2.0     Domestic                           investment
Total debt/GDP                                    49.8       29.2       40.8        43.8      savings

Total debt servicelexports                         19.8      13.9        7.8          8.5
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                43.5                                       I

Presentvalue of debtlexpork                                            106.5                                 Indebtedness
                                        1983-93 1993-03      2002      2003     2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        2.8      3.2        2.1       2.0          3.9       -       NSalvador
GDP per capita                              1.3     1.3        0.4       0.2          1.8        -Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services              0.4    10.6         5.7        3.4         5.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1983       1993      2002         2003      Growthof investmentand GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        31.2      14.0         8.7         9.4     % T

Industry                                          22.3       28.2       30.3        31.8
    Manufacturing                                  16.6      22.4       23.5        24.5
Services                                          46.5       57.8       61.O        58.7

Privateconsumption                                77.5       87.6       89.9        87.9
General governmentconsumption                      15.8        8.6        8.2       11.3                -
Imports of goods and services                     29.9       34.1       41.2        43.4                       GDI      *GDP


                                               1983-93 1993-03         2002         2003
(average annualgrowth)                                                                        Growthof exports and Imports (%)

Agriculture                                         0.7        0.9       -0.5         6.0    30T                                            I
Industry                                            3.0        4.8        2.8
    Manufacturing                                   3.2        4.9        2.5
Services                                            3.3        3.0        2.3

Privateconsumption                                  5.2        3.6        1.3
General governmentconsumption                      -4.1        1.9       -7.2
Gross dwnestic investment                           8.8        2.9       -1.5         0.5           -Exports            -+-Imports
Importsof goods and services                        7.9        7.9        0.5

Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economics central database.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (inbold) comparedwith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.

                                                                   45

                                                                                                                        El Salvador

  PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                  1983     1993       2002      2003
  Domesticprices                                                                         Inflation(%)

  (% change)                                                                           1 6 T
  Consumer prices                                 13.3     18.6         1.9       2.9
  ImplicitGDP deflator                            10.6     12.8         1.3      -1.2

  Governmentfinance
  (% of GDP, includes current grants)
  Current revenue                                                      11.8     12.4
  Current budget balance                                                0.4       0.6   `"u       -     GDPdeflator      +CPI            I
  OverallSurDlusldeficit                                               -3.9      -3.7

 TRADE
                                                  1983     1993       2002      2003
  (US$ mi//ions)                                                                         Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
 Total exports (fob)                                        605       1,234    1,357    5,OW  T
   Coffee                                                   235         107
   conon                                                     35          44
   Manufactures                                             309       1,073    1,080
 Total imports (cif)                                      1,924       4,082    3,926
   Food                                                     441       1,198
   Fueland energy                                            124        175             1,ow
                                                                                       I
   Capital goods                                            565         883      906
  Export price index (1995=100)                               68         55        55           97   98    99     W       01  02    03

  Import price index (1995=100)                               88         83        84                Exports           Imports
  Terms of trade (1995=100)                                   77         66        66

  BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                  1983     1993       2002      2003
  (US$ millions)                                                                         Current account balance to GDP (%)
  Exportsof goods and services                     912     1,273      3,810    3,980
  Imports of goods and services                  1,085    2,487       5,887    6,255   L   T
  Resourcebalance                                 -173    -1,213     -2,077    -2,275

  Net income                                      -131     -129        -287     -325
  Net current transfers                            108      823       1,980    2,069
  Current account balance                         -196     -519        -384     -531
  Financingitems (net)                             392      663         260       550
  Changes in net reserves                         -195     -144         124       -19

  Memo:
  Reserves includinggdd (US$ millions)                      645       1,623     1,607
  Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                  2.8      8.7         8.8      8.8

  EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1983     1993       2002      2003
  (US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
  Total debt outstandingand disbursed            1,745    2,033       5.829     6,305
    IBRD                                           106       220        371       372                         A: 372
    IDA                                              26       22         15        14               G: 991             B: 14

  Total debt service                               202       294        453       514
    IBRD                                             14       32         46        54
    IDA                                               1        1           1        1
  Composition of net resourceflows
    Officialgrants                                 158       611        107
    Officialcreditors                              294       317        164        78
    Privatecreditors                                -19       -3      1,211       310
    Foreign direct investment                        28       16        208
    POmolioequity                                     0        0          0
  World Bank prcgram
    Commitments                                       0       93        143         0    A- IBRD                             E Bilateral
    Disbursements                                     7       51         63        38     B -IDA    D - Other multilateral   F Private
    Principal repayments                              6       18         28        38    C - IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                              ---
    Netflows                                          1       33         35         0
    Interestpayments                                  8       15         19        17
    Net transfers                                    -8       18         17       -17

~~


  Note: This table was produced from the Development Economicscentral database.                                                  9115/04




                                                                 46

