Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7275-ES 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Broad-Based Growth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 12, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7275-ES 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated January 
21, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as 
hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 (a) 
“CFAA” means the Country Financial Accountability Assessment, dated 
June 30, 2004; 
(b) 
“DR-CAFTA” means the Dominican Republic - Central American - US 
Free Trade Agreement, entered into among the Republic of Costa Rica, the Republic of 
Honduras, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic of 
Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic and the United States, on August 5, 2004; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“UNAC” means the Borrower’s national procurement agency (
Unidad 
Nacional de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones
)
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $99,500,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to fifty one-hundredths of one per cent (0.50%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
Page  5
-
4
-
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and  unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
Page  6
-
5
-
applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate 
equal to $100,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate 
for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.  
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date August 10, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
(
Ministerio de Hacienda
)
Boulevard de los Héroes 1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile:   (503) 225-7491  
 
(503) 244-6419 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
By /s/ Carmen Tobar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, Manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2006 through February 15, 2026 
2.50% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  13
-
12
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has signed DR-CAFTA and has launched a program for its 
dissemination. 
2. 
The Borrower has enacted the Competition Law (Legislative Decree No. 528, 
dated December 22, 2004). 
3. 
The Borrower has reduced the cost and time of registration for small and medium 
enterprises through the establishment of a one-stop shop 
(Centro de Trámites 
Empresariales
)
for this purpose. 
4. 
 The Borrower has enacted the following laws for fiscal reform: (i) transitional 
law that stimulates compliance with tax obligations (Legislative Decree No. 498, dated 
November 22, 2004); (ii) reform to the tax code (Legislative Decree No. 497, dated 
October 28, 2004); (iii) reform to the income tax law (Legislative Decree
 
No. 496, dated 
October 28, 2004); (iv) reform to the non-banking financial institutions law (Legislative 
Decree No. 493, dated, October 27, 2004); (v) reform to the banking law (Legislative 
Decree No. 492, dated October 27, 2004); (vi) reform to the customs law, reform to the 
law that created the Customs General Directorate, and customs sanctioning law 
(Legislative Decree No. 490, dated October 27, 2004; Legislative Decree No. 491, dated 
October 27, 2004; and Legislative Decree No. 489, dated October 27, 2004, 
respectively); (vii) reform to the penal code (Legislative Decree No. 487, dated October 
27, 2004); (viii) reform to the procedural penal code (Legislative Decree No. 488, dated 
October 27, 2004); (ix) reform to the tax law for the transfer of goods and services 
(Legislative Decree No. 495, dated November 22, 2004); and (x) reform to the law that 
regulates the appellate court for domestic taxes (Legislative Decree No. 494, dated 
October 27, 2004).  
5. 
The Borrower has enacted the Legislative Decree No. 347, dated June 15, 2004, 
to eliminate early retirement provisions from its public pension rules. 
6. 
The Borrower has issued: (i) the 
UNAC’s operational directives; and (ii) a four 
year program for the implementation of its public procurement system. 
7. 
The Borrower has launched an e-government strategy, including for online 
payment of taxes and customs duties.  
Page  15
-
14
-
8. 
The Borrower has made progress in its public financial management 
improvement program, taking into account the CFAA’s recommendations, as evidenced 
by issuing the Borrower’s Accounts Court’s Decree No. 4 adopting public sector internal 
control norms consistent with international standards.
 
