Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1237 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Broad-based Growth Development Policy Support 
Ln 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P093133 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 22, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 16, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 17, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
El Salvador is a middle income country with a strong track record of policy reforms and 
sound macroeconomic management
.
Since the signing of the 1991 Peace Accords which 
brought closure to a 12 year civil war,  El Salvador has made substantial progress in 
consolidating peace and democracy as evidenced by the three successful electoral cycles 
that have taken place to date.  On the economic front, the country has succeeded in 
singling itself out as a regional leader in economic reforms.  Since the early 1990s, 
successive governments have tackled reforms in a host of key areas including trade 
liberalization, tax reform, financial sector strengthening, and private participation in 
telecoms, energy, and pensions.  The 2001 decision to dollarize the economy has yielded 
lower
 inflation and interest rates and has furthermore reduced the overall uncertainty in 
the business environment.  During this period, successive governments have also invested 
in education, health and other basic services.  These investments, coupled with ongoing 
economic reforms have contributed to an overall increase in the country’s per capita 
income  and a notable reduction in poverty.  
 
The  re-establishment of peace together with sustained economic reform efforts have 
yielded substantial gains for the population. While economic growth in the 1990s 
rebounded to an average annual rate of 4.9% (the second highest in Central America 
behind Costa Rica), impressive progress was also made on the social front.  Moreover, 
marked improvements were made in the rates of basic education enrollment, infant and 
maternal mortality, access to reproductive health services and access to safe water. 
Overall poverty declined significantly (over 27 percentage points) between 1991 and 2002, 
while extreme poverty was halved in the same period. This impressive decline is mainly 
due to the combined impact of economic growth and wide scale investment and 
improvements in  human development. 
 
Since early 2000 a series of  external shocks have reversed the strong growth trajectory 
that characterized the 1990’s.   In 2001, two earthquakes succeeded in devastating El 
Salvador’s economic infrastructure, recovery  of which required large scale emergency and 
reconstruction efforts that are expected to be completed in 2005. The pronounced 
Page  2
downswing in coffee prices that began in 1999 has continued to depress conditions in rural 
areas, while the global recession of 2000-02 negatively impacted global demand for El 
Salvador’s non-traditional exports. More  recently, high oil prices have further contributed 
to the slow recovery experienced in 2004.  Unsurprisingly, 
since
 2000 the sum of these 
exogenous factors has constrained growth to a level barely in keeping with population 
growth; while running up overall debt levels, due to the need for reconstruction outlays 
and the absorption of transition costs from pension reform. 
 
President Antonio Saca’s administration is aggressively addressing the prevailing 
challenges to fiscal and growth with special emphasis on reaching the poor through a 
comprehensive development program known as the
 
“Safe Country Program.”  This 
program is based on three pillars: growth and fiscal, equity and security.   It focuses on 
sound macro-fiscal management, foreign investment promotion, free trade, private sector-
led development and a business environment free of exchange rate risk.  The vision of a  
“Safe Country” encompasses a broad definition of security that includes improved physical 
safety through programs aimed at combating  and preventing crime and violence; and 
increasing investor security through initiatives geared to combat corruption, increase 
transparency and impartiality.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
This DPL and the three planned additional operations are intended to contribute to the 
Government’s objectives of: (i) re-igniting growth, particularly through increased private 
investment and trade; (ii) 
reinforcing
 macroeconomic stability and strengthening fiscal 
sustainability; and (iii) increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector 
management
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for El Salvador laid out a lending program central 
to which would be a programmatic series of annual Development Policy Loans (DPL) totaling $400 
million geared to suppor
t
the newly elected Government’s medium term development agenda.  Within 
this context, the proposed loan in the amount of  $100 million is expected to constitute the first in a 
series of DPLs aimed at supporting the Government’s reform efforts, based on progress against 
benchmarks agreed between the Government and the Bank which would be synchronized with the 
government's annual budget.  Specifically, t
he  proposed DPL would support actions in three 
areas: (i) reestablishing growth;  (ii) macro stability and fiscal consolidation; and (iii) 
public sector modernization. The first area would include policies to expand trade, improve 
the investment climate, and develop capital markets.  The second area would highlight 
measures related to expanding tax revenues and strengthening the financial sector. The 
third area would support public sector modernization efforts in the areas of government 
financial management, procurement, and e-government.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed loan does not support measures expected to trigger significant 
environmental impacts.
 
Nonetheless, since future DPL operations are expected to give 
greater emphasis to the growth agenda, the Bank has begun to collaborate with the 
Government on the preparation of a 
Country Environmental Assessment 
to be finalized in 
FY06. The purpose of this Assessment would be twofold: (i) to develop a sound analytic 
understanding of the country and sector-wide 
institutional
 setup and policy frameworks; and 
Page  3
(ii) to provide the Government with guidance and advice in formulating its national 
environmental strategy and policy, both of which are currently under development. The 
Assessment will be undertaken in tandem with the planned 
Recent Economic 
Developments in Infrastructure Report 
 to provide the Government with specific and timely 
recommendations particularly as it pursues new policies aimed at spurring sustainable 
infrastructure development.
 
Page  4
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3771 
Fax:  
Email: cjaramillo@worldbank.org
 
