(G4'             ( AL/1   - v/
DOmSMOR of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICAL USE ONlY
Rep , No. P-6328-lIR
rREPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELPEN  ASSOCIATION
TO THE
XCUTI   DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 29.3 MILLION
(BQIALENT TO US$41.4 MILLION)
TO TE
REPUBLIC OF NIQM
I?OR A
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
NAY 5, 1994
This document has a restricted distilbt1  ad ma  be _d by recpien oaly in the prfoem    of
e ofia doies. Its WM=31 Mly not otewise be discdosed widot wold Bak authorim



CURRENCYEALEN
Currency Unit                    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.Q0                          CFAF 597
CFAF I million      -            US$1,67S.04
AUMIAOn R AND ACRONYXMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
BIES         Bureau des Infrasactes et des Equlpeent ScolalreslSchool Construction Buream
CAPED        Ceule d 'nbnalon Pedagoglque/Pedagogical Networks of Closely Locad Schools
CEO          CoNllge d-'Enselgnemeia GEniralALower Secoday School
CPSF         CeL;de de Promoton de la Scolarisation des FlUeslGlis Education Promotion Unit
DAF          Direction des Affaires FlnnlreslFP_c
DAAP         Drecdon des Affaires Adnistratives et du PesonneDirection d'Adominstration et
Personnel
DBES         Direcion des Bourses et de l'Ensedgnement Skr /Scolardhps
DEP          Direcion des Etudes et de la Progrwam onIPlanning Directorate
DEPD         Directorate of Primary Education
DPE          Direction des Projets Educadoit!ireclorate of Education Projects
DPRM         Direction de lnselgnemet Pr
ENA          Ecowe Nadonale dmlnlstrationiNatioral School of A
ENS          Ecole Nonnale Sup'rlrelSecondary Teacher Tinig Colg
EERP         Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan
FAC          Fond: d'lde et de CoopratJon FroVnise/French Fund for Cooperation
FP           FaaatE de P4dagoglelSdiool of Pedagogy
iEC          Infi, Education, Commicaton
INAs         Irslt*ur-dol its
INDRAP       National Pedagogical 1stitte
Ns               h
MEtERSA   Arabic lang e shools
MEN          MNsti de lducatdon NatondeMistry of Nationa  Eatdon
MOHND         Msty of Healts Nutiton Divsion
MTP          Miste des Vawa P*blacslM;istry of Pubic Works
NPIfr        Natinal Pdagogl Mobile Team
PCEO         Lower Secondary School Teacher
PES          Professud  Second cdeIUpper Secondr Teachets
TMCs         Primary Teacher Training Colleges
SRP          Sectoral Reform Program
WFP          World Food Program
ZOPP         Objectives-oriented Project Pl1ani  System/dl Orkndeut ek Pl_8g
Fiscal Yea  Jalnuary 1 - Decembr 31           Scool Year. October - Jume



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPMUIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                      ....................................   i
PARTI. THE  ONOf.....                                          ......................  1
PART H. THE EDUCAQ&                 SECTOR         ..................................   2
A. Overview .................................                                                    2
B. Sector Development Issues ..........................................    5
1.     Limited and hquitable Access to Primary Education ...............   5
2.     PoorQuaityof PrimaryEducation .............................   6
3.      nffiedent tranng and use of teachers  .......            ..................   8
4.     Higher edtucation unresponsive to labor market demand  ....           ..........   9
S.     Weak Plning and Managemnent Capacity ...... ...........                           10
C. The Government's Strategy .................                                                  10
D. The Bank Group's Role ..........................   ...............  10
PART m. THE PROJECT .............. 12
A. Project Objectives and description ......                  ........  12
1.     Implementing a Sectoral Reform Progrm  (SWP) ..........                 ....   12
2.     Inproving Access to and Quaity of Primary Education  ..............  16
3.     StrengthenIng Sector Managerial and Planning Capacities .24
D. Costs and nandng, Credit Amount .28
C. Inpact of the Proposed Project               ..29
PART IV. PR03ECI MA..MEMIATIN    .                                   .30
A. Project Readiness, Implementation Responsibilities and Monitoring ....          ....... ..  30
B. Procurement .................................                                                31
C. Disbursements .36
D. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .37
PART V. PROJ..ENEfS ANDI)SKS ..                                       .37
A. Project Benefits and Risks .37
PART VI. AIMEF' CHED AND                                                ......... 38
A. Sectorsl Reform Program (Quick-disbursing Element) ............ ...........                  38
B. Investment .39
his rpo is based an t  ndigW  of a two-ge procs: An paisl took plac in October 1,9 nd wa kd by Mr. Jlger Fre&e.
Princi.pa Education P_ne (AFSPK) but proesig beyovd th yew covr revie was posoned de to Poltc insabiy in Nigr.  .
policy dialogue betwee IDA nd the Govwnm  conied dudri the aio towa  democatc elecd   and procesing s resumed
folowin a r4ppisl muisio in December l99  d by Mr. Makha Nao, Task Manager/EducanSpecbali (APSPH and Wicluding Ms. Tows
Mark Public Helth Specia  (AFSP);    . PM re Ngn  Pam  Officer (AFSNUI); and Ubhd Moaim (Consla). Mr. Benad
AbJU, Sr.  phit p         o        (AFrCE) provide exens aus c finAzi te precn wortin pr. Mr. Sahbvar Dwp
(AFrC3) finlizd the textbookcompone. The repor was ppared by Mr. Ndw. The repot wa ed  by Mr. Ron Pfil, El  Assiant
(APSPH), coain  d ptocessing w   finad by Me. Iane Leygonie, Sr. Stff Asssai (AFSPI. Mc Katai Sim" and Mr. Brger
PFedulk  ae th Departme Duiecor and Maing Division Chi   c y. fr dt opson Me. WViim D. Cooper (Cou     nd
nuel Zymeln (Consan - frmerdy AFrHR) ar t p  rvewes
Imis document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the prfoa f thei
lofficial dui   Its cotnts may not othevise be dsosed witt World Bank a0ortzation.



ILST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX I    Key Macroeconomic Social Data
ANNEX 2    Social Development Indicators
ANNEX 3    Basic Data
ANNEX 4    Org4algrawm  du Mldstre de 1'Edwadon Nattona  et RedhrdzeslOrganlzadon
Chart
ANNEX S    Education Data
ANNEX 6    Anna Monitrang Indicators
ANNEX 7    Plan d'Ocution du ProjetlAmplementation Plan
ANNEX 8    Lettre de Poldq&a EducadvelLetter of Educaion Sector Policy
ANNEX 9    Summary of Recurrent Expenditures and Costs Savings
ANNEX 10   Infauctues ScolalulSchool Constructions
ANNEX 11   Fomation des Maftresfeachers Tning
ANNEX 12   Matkrels DtdacdqweslPedagogic M ials
ANNEX 13   Co&s du ProjetICOSTAB
ANNEX 14   Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
ANNEX 15 Procurement Arrangements
ANNEX 16   Disbursements Schedule
MAP: IBRD 16779R



REPlBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR ]PROJECT YBRID)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMRY
Bwrower:           Republic of Niger
Bleteia:           MNistry of Education
Credlt Amount:     SDR 29.3 million (US$41.4 million equivalent)
Trms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
oflandug:          Govew ment of Germany (tJS$10.2 million equivalent), and Norway (US$4.8
millon equivalent)
Project Objectis
and Description:    Niger is one of the five countries in the world Xiat have less than one-third of
their children entroed in primary education.  Although primay school
enrollment increased by 73% between 1980 and 1993, due to high population
growth, the enrollment coverage in 1993 (29%) was only marginly higher ta
In 1980 (25%). Gids account for only 36% of prmary school enrollment.
Instruion quality is low and declining. Despite these disturbing tends In
primary education, only 45% of the public education budget is devoted to this
level of educaton. Against this background, the Government has developed an
Emergency Education Rehabiiation Plan (EERP), desigWed to initate a
transformaton of Niger's education system from a small, ditist and cosdy system
into one that is more relevant and equitable, where resources are more efficiendy
mobilized and used, and where absolute priority is given to expansion and quality
improvements of primary education.
The proposed project would support implementation of the EERP between 1994
and 1999 to achieve the following targets in the 199912000 school-year: (a) raise
admission into grade one of primary education by 40%; (b) increase the share of
girls's enrollment in primary education from 36% to 40%, and (c) reduce the
percentageof repetion in primary education from 16% to 10%. Atzainingthese
targets would result in an icreae in the primary school enrollment ratio from
29% in 1993/94 to 35% by 1999/2000.
The project is a byrid. comprised of Q) a SectoralRrmZPro supported
by general budgetary assistance released in two tanches, and designed to
promote more cost-effective use of public education resources; and (i1) a Secot
Investment Progam designed to increase access to and quality of prmary
education and to improve the Government's capacity to plan and mane resource
use in the education sector. More specifically, the project would:



1.    Iplement a Sector Rform  PrpgraM designed to: (a) increase public
expenditures on primary education; O) extend the use of double-shift
teaching in primary education; (c) restructure and consolidate trainingof
primary school teachers; (d) consolidate training of secondary school
teachers; (e) use teachers more efficiendy in general secondary educa-
tion; and (t) contain student subsidies in secondary and higher education.
2.    Improve Access to and Ouality og Primary Education by: (a) constructing
about 1,770-primary school classrooms and reb hbilitating about 1,500
classrooms; (b) developing and implementing a program to accelerate
girls' education; (c) improving the quality of primary school teachers
training programs; (d) providing about 1.6 million prmary school text-
books, 1.2 million mathematics workbooks, and 30,000 teacher guides;
and (e) supporting a GovernmentfUNICEF-run micronutrients program.
3.   Strengthningg Sector Manageial and Planning Ca=acities by: (a)
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Education to manage
education resources and implement and evaluate education improvement
programs; (b) improving the efficiency of decentralized sector planning
and management; and (c) preparing a development strategy for higher
education.
Benefits
and Risk:           The main benefits are:  h£g. the project contains a program of targeted
interventions, which would help protect vulnerable groups during the current
period of severe budgetary constraints by (a) reallocating public expenditures in
favor of primary education; (b) locating 84% of the classrooms constructed in
rural areas; (c) reducing micronutrient deficiencies of about 165,000 primary
students; and (d) promoting income-enerating activities through support for low-
cost, labor-intensive school constrr -ion which would create cn average 650 jobs
every year. Second, implementation of the overall education program supported
by this project would provide the enrollment capacity for approximately 183,000
(or 45%) additional pupils by 1999, and the share of girls in primary enrollment
would increase from 36% to 40%. lbkg, the project would help improve the
quality and relevance of primary education by making textbooks and teaching
materials in key subjects available to all students, and by improving teachers'
training and the quality of school buildings. Four*, the project would reinforce
Niger's overall effort as regards: (a) more efficient use of public resources
through improved management of the education sector, and making the system
more responsive to local needs; and (b) promotion of higher returns on public
investments by giving increased priority to primary education, where the social
rate of return to education investments is highest.
The main risks are: (a) The Government's ability to implement sensitive reform
measures affecting, in particular, secondary and higher education students
(imitation of scholarships) and teachers Oonger work hours through double-shift
teaching); and (b) the weak capacity of sector institutions to implement the
program. The former risk is mitigated by the fact that the reform measures
which met considerable resistance from students and the teachers' union when
iiiated during project preparation in 1988/89 have matured and are now well



ealized by ministry staff and the teachers' union. In addition, Implementa-
don of most measures is well advanced under the ongoing Primay Educatio
Devvdopment Project (Cr.1740-NIR) and through preparadon of the proposed
project Resorces provided under the proposed project wil fArther facilitate
their implementatio. The second risk i minimized through project support to
stengn thpng and mamngerW capactes of the education sector and, In
parcula, the capacity to monitor implen  of the policy meas. Risks
are frther mitgated by IDA's well-developed policy dialogue with Niger In tte
education sector, by the close itegai  of the education sector dialogue in the
overall macro dialogue; and by special supervision efforts planned during the
early stages of project implemnion.
RIsks:              This is a Caeory C project. No environmental risks are foreseen. Constuction
weud respect national environmental laws. Schools would be built on
Goverme  land with arproved Bank stndards. Most of the classrooms would
be associated with existng schools. lhere would be no displacemeant of people.
Iclusion of environment education in taining programs would have a posiive
eanvronmena impact



* iv -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(E  OF TAXES AND DUTIE  a
L    FA LA
(USS MILLON)
1. Implementng a Secorad Rebrm Progam
(QuIck-disbursing)                                            0.0         20.G         20.0
2. Improving Access to ad Quality of Primary Edcation
(a) Constructing about 1,770 prim   school clssooms
and rehabilitating about 1,SOO classrooms                 12.2         14.9         27.1
(b) Developing and implementing a progr  to accelerat
girls' education                                           0.2          0.7          0.9
(c) Impoving the quality of pimary school teahers aining
progrms                                                    1.9          3.9          5.8
(d) Providing primary school textbooks                        0.0         10.5         10.5
(e) supporting GovernmentlUNCEF-run micronutrient
programs                                                   0.0          0.3          0.3
Sub-total                                                 14.3         30.4         44.7
3. S    t     Sectoral Manager  and Pling Capacits
(a) Strenglhenilg the capacity of MEN to mange resources,
and Inplement and evaluate education
impovement programs                                        0.3          1.4           1.7
(b) Improving the efficiency of decentralized sector
planning and management                                   0.4           1.3          1.7
(c) Preparing a devopment strategy for
higher education                                           0.1          0.2          0.3
Sub-tota                                                   0.9          3.0          3.9
TOTAL BASE COSIS                                               1S.2         53.4         68.6
Physical Contngencies                                           0.4          2.2          2.6
Price Confingencies                                             u            2.           4-
TOTAL PROJECr COSTS                                            18.0         58.0         76.0
al Totals may not add up due to rounding.



.--
FINANCING PLAN (JSS MILLUON)
QUIC-IBU               INVESTIENTS        3TL               I
IDA                                17.2               24.2               41.4        54.3
NORWAY                              2.8                2.0                4.8         6.4
GERMANY                                               10.2               10.2        13.4
GOVERNMENT                                            19.4               19.4        25.6
COMMUNITIES                                            0.2                0.2         0.3
TOTAL                              20.0               56.0               76.0       100.0
IRSlElDDISBURSEMEN15 OF =kI IDA  Er
(IDA FISCAL YEAR)
USS MI1LION
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
A. Quick-dibuing element
Aual                                           7.2  10.0    -     -     -     -
Cumlative                                      7.2  17.2    -     -     -
B. Invesment element
Annua                                          1.6   4.4   5.4   4.8   4.2   3.2   0.6
Cumulave                                       1.6   6.0  11.4  16.2  20.4  23.6  24.2
Total A+B
Annual                                           8.8  14.4   5.4   4.8   4.2   3.2   0.6
r'umulatlve                                     8.8  23.2  28.6  33.4  37.6  40.8  41.4
Au*A&wsw  bfm  Fi FI
Emh_ latd R~Ntqlnd 
1*   1hlSh  ai mlId%Rm -1)



REPUBUC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT   YRID)
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommedon on a proposed
Development Credit for SDR 29.3 million (US$41.4 million equivalent), on s D IlA trm with
a mlatuity of 40 year, to the Republic of Niger. The credit would help the Goverment of NiSer
to implement a package of policy measures and related Investments designed to promote more cost-
effective use of public education resources, increase access to and quality of primary education, and
to improve the Government's capacity to plan and manage resource use In the education sector. Ihe
proposed operation would be a hybrid praj comprised of: (a) a Sectral Befotgmm (SRP)
supported by general budgetary assistance of US$20 million euivalent released in two tches of
US$10.0 million each- fianced by IDA (US$17.2 million) and Norway (US$2.8 million); and (b)
investment required to implement the SRP, totalling US$56 million and ffnanced by IDA (US$24.2
million), Germany (US$10.2 million), Norway (IUS$2.0 million), the Government (US$19.4 million),
and .ocal communities (US$0.2 million).
2.    The credit would be IDA's third contribution to the development of education in Niger and
the first in support of a comprehensive reform program in this sector. The project would help eend
important elements of Niger' Structural Adjastment Program to the education sector, while ensuring
an adequate level of resources in this key social sector during a period of economic adjustmen.
3.    Investment programs and policy measures supported through the project are based on (a)
lessons learned from the first two education projects; (b) studies commisioned over the past five
years; (c) the Government's Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan (EERP) as well as the National
Plan for Education which the Government developed following the 1990 World Conference on
Education; (d) working papers developed for each project componen by national teams; (e) national
and regional workshops held during project preparation to develop stakeholder ownership; (t)
extensive discussions conducted with the Nigerien authoritiea, the teachers' union, Parent
Associations and the donor community during project preparation; and g) findings of IDA's October
1989 appraisal and December 1993 re-appraisal missions. In addition, a Nigeeien delegation
composed of five technical staff visited Washington in January 1994 to present and discuss detailed
project working papers and to revise project costs to take into consideration the impac of the CFAF
devauation. The project was prepared by IDA in close coordination with France, Germany, Norway,
UNICEF, and UNDP.
PART I. THIE ECONMIY
1.1 Economic Developments. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world (per capita GDP
of US$300 in 1993). Its rapidly growing population (8.5 million wfih a 3.3% growth rate) is 80%
rural. Most Nigeriens make a precarious living from subsistence agriculture, under difficult
environmental conditions (70% of the land area is desert or semi-desert, and harvests reflect erratic
rainfall). Long dominated by an inefficient public sector, the formal economy depends on uranium,
a primary commodity with poor prospects. Developments in Nigeria, a large and powerfW neighbor,
have a strong Impact on Niger's economy through active, and mostly informal, border trading. Since
April 1993, Niger has a new democratically elected Government, operating in the contet of new
Insttions and of an evolving, and st1i fragile, political and social situation. The Govement is
demied to improve economic management and to maintai a stable macrnomic  amework,
conducive to private sector actity. Tlhe policy framework tkes fuil advantage of the deuation
of the franc CFA to restore competitiveness, restore economic activities, and redirect public reources



-2 -
toward human resource development, i cture ma ece, and the provision of efficiet
services to support agriculture and preservthe fragfle naural resource base. Key macroeconomic
social data are provided In AU 1.
1.2   Social DsldgpMM   nLd yvry Aleiat. Social idcators pait a unionly gri picture
of Niger's poverty. Food security and nutritional status in rural areas are closely linked to rnl
paterns. With declining per capita incomes, poverty and malnution have at best remanhd constant
and are more likely to have worened in the 1980s. Malnutrio is a serious problem for dcildren
and pregnant and lactating women: an estimated 2S% of children aged 12-23 months, and 22% of
children aged 24-2S months are chronically malnourished. The adult literacy rate in Niger (14%) is
among the lowest in the world. noe current prmary enroltment rate at 29% is disma by any
standards. Women and girls hold relatively low status in society (despite the exit    of a Mnitry
of Women's Affas and the fact that women's groups have been playing a very active role In the
democrazation process and hold many key positions in the government). As a result of this and
other factors, oily 9% of women are literuate nd only 21% of girls of primary scwool P-a are
enrolled in school. Eady evidence on the effects of past economic reform programs on the rural poor
sugges that there has been little discernible Improvement at the household level. Climatic facors
(e.g., raIall patterms) remain the critical variable for subsistence faming, while the agdcultural
services provided by the Government have not been able to keep up with increg demand. The
social effects of Niger's economic problems are also quite visible in urban areas, where population
growth and a shrinking modern sector have caused rising unemployment (and social disturbanes).
ihe rapid growth of the informal sector is both a result and a mitgating factor In the process. Rapid
population growth compounds these problems and poses a large env      threa through
deforestation and pressure on land. Social Development Indicators are provided in 4M   2.
-1.3   Efforts have been made to respond to the challenges of human resource development ad
poverty alleviation, but they remain inadequate. A public expenditure review, completed by the Bank
in 1992 In part to help support the Govement's reorientation in the socW sectors overl, focused
on these issues. Because Niger ranis among the bottom five countes in the world for aU socia
indicators, improving significantly the situation underlined by these indicators is a sine qua non
condition of development. Significant and sustWained improvement is crucial for both long tem
growth within Niger and, In the absence of employment opportunities at home, to improve the
ces for migrants to find gainful employment In the coastal countries. Ihe Governme's
priorities In the development of human resources are: (a) to enhance the onset of ferlity dedine; (b)
to improve the coverage of primary health care; and (c) to ;.ncrease the level and quality of basic
education.
PART IL THIE EuUCATiON SECTIOR
A. Oveview
2.1   Educn Structu nd  dministration. The forma education system in Niger is organized
as in most other Sahelian countries. A six-year primary cycle is foblowed by four years of lower and
three years of upper secondary schooling, and higher education at the Univasity of Niamey, the
National School of Administraion (ENA), or abrcad. Koranic schools are found In most villages.
Prvate schools account for about 3% of primary and 11% of secondary school enrollment. Primay
school teachers are trained In four teacher training colleges, ad teachers for lower-secondary
education are trained at the University; there is no professional training for upper secondary teachers.
Technia education is provided in two secondary schools and vocational education in a dozen tazinin



-3-
cemn, many of wbich are privately ru. Agdculral training Is prvided In one seconry school
and at the University. Except for exp ent schools (1.2% of total primay enrollment). In which
tucdion is given in local lnges In the fint three grades, and Arabic language schools
(aledea) (5s% of primay eollment of which one-sventh In private schools), all teaching is In
French. 'he Miistry of National Education (ME  is responsible for primy, seondary, and post-
secoday education. In addition, sevea tecical ministries nm their own training programs.
2.2    L_.SMng. With an adult ltercy rate of 14% (9% for women), and a primary school
enrollmen rado of 29%, Niger is among the five countries in the world that have both the low'st
level of adult literacy and the least developed prlmary education. Although primary school
enrollment increased by 73% between 1980 and 1993, due to high population growth, the enrollment
coverage in 1993 is only marginally higher than In 1980 5%). The enrollment raios for secondary
(7%) and higher education (1%), and the sha  of girls' enrollment (36% of total enrollmet in
primary, 32% in lower secondary, 21% in uppr secondary) are all well below the correspondig
regional averages. However, despite low post-primary enrollment, given present low economic
pefrmance, there is geraly an excess of seondary and higher education graduates In non-
technical fields; these surpluses coexist with pocket of techical and mnagerial s   shortages. The
qaity of education is low at all levels and has declined fiuher in recent years as the ficial
squeeee In the sector has starved schools of essential pedagogical inputs. lTe strucure, organizaion,
anG statistical profile of the education system are presented in Ames 3 and S.
2.3    Nigers very low level of human resource development seriously threatens tis natural
resourwce-poor country's long-tem economic growth prospects. Research from other developing
counties points to a powerful beneficial impact of schooling on factors such as fertility, agLicultural
productvity, retuns on investmnts In physical capital, health and nutrition, as well as on ceta
social, poltical, and personal values which promote developmet. As a corollary, returns on
invesme   in other sectors are adversely afcted by low levels of eductiona attament. Retu
on investments In education in developing counties are consistently found to compare fbvorably to
investments in most other sectors. For Niger, rough esdmates suggest zal rates of retr to
prmary education of arwnd 15%, upper secondary education of 14%, and higher education of 10%.
The corresponding qirate rates are substantially higher since most of the costs are borne by the
collectivity.
2.4    Akgn    for fiiopeation. lhis operaion was initially prepared during 198&'89 and
appraised in October 1989. but because of country circumtances, processing was Interrupted untl
the new democratically elected Govemment was installed in April 1993. The project was re-
appraised in December 1993. -he following paragras  summarize the reasons for this delay in
processin.
2.5   To reverse the negadve trends in education developmbt eaperienced In the 1920s, the
Government developed, within the famework of SAL I (1986) and the Public Enterprise Sectorad
Adjustmet Program (1988), an education sector stratey. The strae had the twin objectives of
preventing the Government's tight financial constrain from causing a frther decline in the already
low enrollment ratio in primary educaion, while laying the foundations for education development
more In line with expected resource availability and labor market conditions. The strategy gave
highest priority to primay education. Recognzng that there would be little room for extra public
resou    for education in the medium term and ta there was considerable scope for more cost-
effective use of existing resrces, the  taey   Initiated a nunber of cost-saving measures.



-4-
ImtplementaIon of these measures was supported under the IDA-financed Primay Education
Development Project (1986).
2.6 Up to 1989, introduction of the cost-effective measures was quite successfWl: Uit LEurrep
S- we reduced by Initing the she of bwkwewrs (INs) In the teaching frce to 14%, the
remader being k eurs-4JoL  (NAs)-the starting salary of the former exceeds that of the
latter by about 50%, abolishing teacg indemnities for persons trained as teachers but holding
admins ve posts, and introducing the we of double-shift teaching-one tacher teaches one Oup
of pupils In the mornig and another in the afternoon-139 classrooms In 1989190). MJL*apkaI
gm were reduced trough the development of low-cost primary school construction tecques (cog
per classroom was reduced by almost 50% in current prices between 1985 and 1989). As regards
:osts m =rear  the (nominal) budget for student subsidies in higher education was reduced by 9%
between FY85 and FY88; boarding facilities were dosed at Wes; and the classroom construction
program, based on the use of local materis, helped transfer part of the financial burden of school
construcion to local communities.
2.7   Success in achieving the main objectives of the above strategy, i.e., to reverse the decline in
the primary enrolmt ratio, is evidenced by the fact that this ratio-which declined from 25% In
1980/81 to 23% in 1984/85-increased to 27% in 1988/89, in spite of a decline in the shae of the
Governe's budget dedicated to education and a 14% increase in the primary school age population
during the four year period 1984/85-1988/89.
2.8 To deepen the education sector reform program and accelerate the development of primary
education, in 1988/89 the Government of Niger further developed the above sta    into a Sectoral
Adjustmet Program and asked several donors, led by IDA, to support this program. In respoms
to this request, a hybrid operton was prepared, approved for apprabal by the Operations Commitee
on Jime 26, 1989, and appaised in October 1989. However, processing of the operation was stopped
following the Yellow Cover Review in Jamuy 1990 due to growing political instability in Niger,
resulting in rejection by the student and teachers' union of three key adjustment measures: (a)
extnsion of doublet teaching in primary schools in urban areas (abolished at the request of the
teachers' union), (b) scholarship reduction (the scholarship budget doubled between 1991 and 1993;
and (c) abolishment of the automatic recruitmaent of ail higher education graduates into the civi
service.
2.9    Despite the halt in project processing, IDA cotinued the sector dialogue through the ongoing
Primary Education Development Project IDA remained in close contact with Canada, France,
Germany, and Norway donors which had initialy agreed to support the progrm prepared by the
Govemment in 1989. This dialogue with Niger was intensified following the completion of the fis
national elections in April 1993. IL-A indicated readiness to resume the processing provided the
Govrent took up-froe actis to demonstate its commiment to acceleating the development of
primay educaton through the  reoucton of double-shift teaing and reductions in the
scholarship budget
2.10  In order to revive the development of p ry education, the Governmet developed a special
package of measures for the 1993194 school year. The following measures, which formed part of
the present project as appraised in October 1989, were implemented: (a) to beer prepare for the start
of the school year, selection of fkst grade students for primary education started in July 1993 instead
of In October as has been the prcdce since independence; (b) 207 double-shift teaching clssroms
opened In urban areas, covering 20,100 first grade students compared with 139 classroom when the



program was stopped in October 1991. Tnis measure helps explain the 20% increa  in grade one
enrollment between 1992193 and 1993/94 school years; (c) the 15% surplus of general secondary
teachers, particularly In liberal arts subjects, was reduced by usilg underwployed filIktime teachers
more Intensively, and by redeploying teachers from upper to lower secondary education; and (d)
about 100 primary teachers occupied with administrative tasks within the school inpwtorates were
redeployed to the classoomns. In addition, due to budgetay constraints, automatc recitment Into
the civil service stopped begining in 1991.
B. Sector Development ssues
1.    Umlted and Inequitable Access to Primary Education
2.11 Backgrund. As indicated above, Niger is among the five countries in the world that have
less than 30% primary school enrollment. Even this low coverage (29% in 1993194) masks marked
disparties in access to primary education between urban and rural areas and between girls and boys.
lhe enollment ratio in Niger's eight aminve departments ranges from  19% to 83%.
Enrollment growth in urban areas is severely constrained by limited capacity as evidenced by
overcrowded classes (generally more than 55 pupils per class) and restrictions on new admissions at
the start of each school year. In rural areas, growth is constrained by a combination of supply and
demand factors. Low population density makes education costly (class size is generaly below 35)
and necessitates large catchment areas for each sdhool which, in turn, has a negative effect on
demand. In addition to a lack of classrooms, according to a 1993 survey, about 50% of the nearly
10,000 existing classrooms urgently need rehabilitation. The low quality of the i aruure has an
adverse effect on access and student learnin. Nationwide, girl account for only 36% of primary
enrollments, mainly due to low admission into grade one in rural areas where girls represent 31%
of enrollment compared with 45% in urban areas. Contributing factors to this low enrollment of girh
In rural areas are long distnces to school, culturd attitudes toward girls' education, and high
opportuni costs since girls play an important economic role in rura households from an early age.
2.12  Higrowth rate of school-age ponulation. The high rate of growth in the school-age
population, es    at about 3.3% per year, constitutes a serious obstacle to rapid expansion in the
coverage of primary education. As an illustration, the Government plans to increae primary
enroment from 411,000 students to 594,000, or by some 45% between the 1993/94 and 1999/2000
school years. Of this increase, more than one-third is required just to keep pace with population
growth, i.e., to maintain constant the present low enrollment ratio of 29%. Another result of the
rapid population growth is that, despite the 459% projected enrollment increase during this period, the
number of children aged 7-12 years who are M enrolled at school would condtue to increase, from
about 1,031,000 in 1993/94 to 1,103,000 in 1999/2000.
2.13   Undefincingof. primary education, During the period FY80/90, the education share of
the Government's recurrent public expenditures declined from about 23% to about 20% where it
remained in 1992/93. The share of primary education in the education sector budget is 45%. While
this is above the Sub-Sarn African average (42%), this share is too low considering NigQes
exceptionally low development of primary education The corresponding figure for countries such
as Chad, Senegal, and Burkina Fasso exceeds 50%. Ihe share of the education budget devoted to
post-primary levels in Niger i 28% for secondary education and 27% for higher education (Annex
3). One may question the wisdom of allocating such a lage dhae of the budget to higher educatiaon,
considering the low development of primary educadon, the dim employment prowects fr university



6^
graduates, and especially, the fict that 70% of the higher education budg4t is devoted to student
subsidies (para 2.29).
2.14   Ihe fiancial squeeze in the education sector, arising from rigid budget celings ad rising
costs, is likely to become tighter in years to come. On the one hand, the modest medium-term
prospects for economic growth and the many competing claims on public budgets leave little room
for additional public funds for education. On the other hand, as the school-age population increases
by about 3.3% a year, and the aging of the teaching force implies an automatic annual increase of
about 3%  in the salary budget, continuation of present policies will necessitate more funds even to
maintain the present, very modest enrollment ratio. Thus, prospecs for accelerating the development
of primary education depend largely on the extent to which present polid4a can be changed with a
view to (i) increasing the share of the education budget allocated to primary education; (i) using
education resources more efficiently throughout the education sector; and (ii) mobilizing increased
private sector and community financing for education.
2.    Poor Quality of Primary Education
2.15   Background. The quality of education in Niger is poor as evidenced by low interal
efficiency and low examinaion pass rates at all levels. Low quality is reflected in repetition rates
of 3-16% in grades one through five, and 42% in grade six. More than 40% of pupils drop out prior
to grade six, and the pass rate at the leaving examination averaged only 29% over the last five years.
Low instruction quality is caused by factors such as low quality of the teaching force, swere shortage
of pedagogical materials, students' nutritional deficiencies, and pupils' limited comprehension of the
language of instuction during the initial years of schooling.
2.16   Oualiy of primary school teachers. Common to francophone, African countries, Niger has
two types of primary school teachers: lnsdeurs-adjols (INAs) and butkunw (IN s). Prior to
reforms initiated as part of the preparaion of the present project, INAs were trained hrough two-year
programs and Ins through four-year programs. Admission to either program was dependent on
successfbl completion of lower secondary education. The program for trining Ins consists of a three-
year Iycde program to prepare for the BaccXlaurfat (Bac), plus one year of pedagogical training for
those who fail the Bac - those who gm continue to the University and abandon the primary
education teaching stream. This mode of selection into the primary teaching force has negative
effects on both quality and motivation of those selected. In addition to this weakness in the way
students are selected, the content of the truning programs for both Ins and INAs needs revision as
it emphasizes general education at the expense of continuous skill upgrding and field training which
are the more effective training to improve teaching skills. Furthermore, better communication and
support between the existing network of school inspectors, pedagogic advisors and Pdmary Teacher
Training Colleges (rrCs) staff and students would improve the quality of the teaching force. Fmally,
as discussed in paras 2.22 and 2.23, this way of organizing teacher trainig leads to both high
training and salary costs.
2.17   REqdg!s; matetials. Pupils in Niger do not have access tothe minimum reading mateial
required for effective learning. The Government spends less than US$1 on instructional materidals
per pupil per year compared with US$5 recommended in the World Bank FAdon Polky Paper
for Africa. The ongoing education project supports the creation of a national capacity to develop
textbooks and teachers' guides for primay education, and the printing and distribution of these
mateials. The project aims at providing one textbook for every two pupils, totalling about one
mfllion students' textbooks and about 65,000 teachers' guides, represetng 44 new tits in five



-7-
subject areas. By December 1994, the project will have provlded: (i) 393,400 tetbooks In five
subjects corresponding to one book per two pupils in reading for grades two through four, in
mathematics for grade three, and in social sciences for grades three and four; one book for eight
pupils in reading and mathematic books for grades five and six; and one book per four pupils in
history and geography for grades four and five; (ii) 480,000 mathematics workbooks for the first and
second grades (one book per pupil), and (iii) 12,000 teacher's guides. In addition, because of the
delays experienced in the development of manuscipts by the National Pedagogical Institute
(INDRAP). following IDA's advice, the Govermnent imported about 100,000 textbooks from abroad
(mainly reading and mathematics books for grades five and six).
2.18 The establishment of a national capacity to develop manuscripts has proven to be a long-term
process as Illustrated by the fact that it took Niger about five years to produce the first book under
the owing project (editoral assistce Is provided through co-editing arrangements with foreign
publishers and the books are printed abroad). The main wealmess has been to rely on civil sean
at INDRAP for preparation of the mamnscripts rather than on the private sector. The present shortage
could have been avoided had the Government been more waling to import textbooks from abroad as
a stop-gap measure until national manuscripts could be developed and tested. Textbooks, which were
developed for francophone West African countries, exist on the intenational market in subject areas
such as mathematics, science, and reading. Given the present shortage of school supplies and
textbooks in principal subjects such as reading and mathematics, and the Governments target
enrollment ratio of 35% by 1999, a sharply increased investment in textbooks is needed to imptove
education quality.
2.19 Nutritiona stat. The large catchment radius for schools in rura areas means long walking
distances and special food-supply problems. A feeding program supported by the World Food
Program (WPP) is found in some rural schools. Currently, about 23,000 primary school children
benefit from this program, receiving three meals per day for a total of 1,950 calories, covering almost
100% of caloric needs. A targeting system has been instituted where only children from poor
families or those whose families live more than four kilometers from the school are to benefit from
the feeding program. As regards the general nutritional status, about 5% of children 6-10 years old
in the South of the country suffer from poor vision attributed to vitamin A deficiency. Iodine
deficiency diseases can reach 70% of the population in certain villages. No study is available on the
extent of general ima rion, but since about 33% of children 0-S years of age are stunted (below
two Standard Deviations of the average height for age), and 37% are underweight, the nutronal
status of the 6-12 year age group raises concern. So far, no attempt has been made to supply
standard micronutrients and deworming tablets through the school system as is now becoming the
case in many Sahelian countries.
2.20 Regarding the language of instruction, since 1974 Niger has operated experimental primary
schools to test the use of local languages as a means of instuction in the first three grades of the
prmary cycle (176 classes in 1993/94, enrolling 4,649 pupils). However, whRe the dropout level
from these schools is only about half that of traditional schools, no study has been conducted to
evaluate the relative importance of the different factors contributing to student dropout and
achievement (e.g., in addition to teaching in national languages, the experiment  schools have
smaller class sizes, better trained and motivated teachers, and more and better training maters than
traditional schools). It is important that such an evaluation be conducted to assess the extent to which
the lessons learmed from these experimental schools may be etended to the rest of the primary shool
system.



-8-
3.    Inefficient training and use of teachers
2.21 Background. In 1992/93, the unit cost in prinary education was about CFAF 31,000 per
pupil-year. The unit cost for secondary education was about three times that of primary education;
and that of higher education was about 45 times that of prmnary education. Measures taken by the
Governmant in recent years (para 2.6) have helped contain cost increases. However, costs still
remain above the corresponding regional averages indicating scope for cost containment. Given the
dominant role played by teachers' salaries in education costs, the potential for furher cost
containment is crucially dependent on more efficient training and use of teachers in primary and
secondary education.
Eimr_y eduation
2.22  Increased efficiency of preservice training. Para 2.16 describes the organization of the pre-
service training. Between 1990 and 1993, 46% of those enrolled at TrCs were in the four-year
training program (Ins). The content of the first three years of the INs program is identical to that
of the lycdes. Considering that unit costs in TMCs are about 2.25 times that of the bycdes, this way
of organizing the training of INs is very inefficient. In addition, to provide in-service and pre-service
training, and training of INs and INAs in separate institutions is inefficient because It does not allow
for optimal use of teaching resources and space (e.g., using capacity for in-service training during
periods when lTC students are placed in classrooms to gain practical experience, or using scare
subject teachers for a larger nunber of trainees). Substantial savings in taing costs as weil as in
the future teacher salary wage bill can be achieved through instituting the following two reforms
promoted through the preparation of the present project.
2.23 First, the present four-year program for INs will be replaced by a one-year program for
students who have already successfully completed upper secondary education. Second, the share of
INs enrolled in TIC will be reduced from 46% to 15% (para 3.7). Considering that the stating
salary of an IN is about 50% higher than that of an INA, this change in recruitment will help contain
the future growth in the teacher salary budget. As studies conducted in several francophone countries
have demonstrated no evidence of INs being more effective teachers than INAs, this change is not
expected to negatively affect students' learning. Therefore, in the present resource constint
situation in which expansion of primary education is severely restricted by the Government's financial
ability to recruit teachers, the Government should focus its future recruitment of teachers on INAs
rather than INs.
2.24   Mrcient =9t1r d           Niger'spupil-teacherratio, 40:1 in 1993194, is aboutaverage
for Sub-Saharan Afica. A furtier increase without impairing quality is possible through incrased
use of multigrade and double-shift teaching. The former (one teacher teaching two or more grade
levels in the same classroom) is commonly used in rural areas and has been further developed under
the ongoing education project, covering 30% of total primary classrooms in 1993. 'he latter will
be expanded under the proposed project (para 3.5).
2.25 Increased efficiency of pre-service training. As in the case of primary education, the quality
of secondary education is low as evidenced by a low and declining pass rate at the completion of
lower secondary education (the BEPC)-from 66% in 1980, and 32% in 1991 to 30% in 1992-and
at the Bac-from 50% in 1980, and 46% in 1991 to 40% in 1992. Major factors contributing to low
efficiency of the learning process are a shortage of training materials and pedagogical equipment and
low quality of secondary school teachers training. Outside this project, AfCtB and FAC are assisting



-9-
in the provision of pedagogical materials and equipment. A strengthening of teacher training along
the lines described below has been initated under the preparation of the present project.
2.26 'he main function of the Faculty of Pedagogy (VP) of the University of Niamey is to train
lower secondary school teachers (professewrs de CEO - PCEG -) through a twoyea  post-
baccalaurea program (Bac+2): 369 stdents in 1988189, and 418 in 1993194. The program is a
miure of subject matter (e.g., French, matematics) and pedagogical training, the fomer lagely
duplicatg programs provided by the Faculties of Science and Humanities. No pedagogical traiing
Is provided for upper-seconday school teachers (professeur du second  e-PES) or to TMC
teachers. Primary and secondary education pedagogic advisors, and primary school inspectos are
trained at the FP. To avoid duplication of programs with other University ficulties, the FP should
limit its program to providing professional and practical tingt for both pre-service and in-service
training, to candidates who have already received their general rubject matter training at other
universities schools. This means transforming the FP into an professional training institution such
as an Ecole Normde SWrleure (ENS), common in most frmcmophone African countries.
Furthermore, pedagogical training for pre-service traning should be developed for upper-secondary
school teachers, and an in-service training program should be developed for both types of teachers
(para 3.9).
2.27 More efficient use of teachers The teaching force-composed of untrained PES and about
50% PCEG without professional pre-service training-is not efficiently utlized. A survey of teacher
utilization in secondary schools conducted by the MEN in December 1993 showed that the average
weekly teaching load for CEG teachers is 19 hours instead of the required 21 hours, and 16 hours
instead of 18 hours for Iyc6e teachers. Efforts to promote more efficient use of general secondary
school teachers was initiated under the ongoing education project and should be continued (para
3.11).
4.    Higher education unresponsive to lbor market demand
2.28  The contbution of Niger's system of higher education to social and economic deveopme
is weakened by the system's slow response to the changes that have taken place during the 1980s in
the demand for and supply of trained labor. During a period of less tn ten years, these changes
have transfbrmed the Nigerien market for trained labor from one chdacterized mainly by shortages,
to one characterized mainly by surpluses. At independence, Niger had no ins"tion of higher
education. Ihe country's development efforts during the 1960s and 1970s suffered from severe
shortage of trained manpower. In response to this demand, the Government created the University
of Niamey in 1971, and enrollment in higher education grew rapidly from 1,480 students in 1980/81,
3,541 in 1987/88, to 4,688 in 1991/92. This rapid enrollment growth at a time of severe constan
on public fiaces and employment stagnation in both the private and public modem secor clearly
indicates the need to develop and implement a stratey designed to better adapt Nigers higher
education to the country's current labor market and public finance conditions.
2.29  Such a stragy needs to address at least four basic issues currently encountered in Niger as
well as in many other francophone countries in West Africa: (i) the policy of unrestricted admission
to the University of all high school graduates; (it) the extremely high level of student subsidies (in
1992, 70% of the higher education budget was for student subsidies and 85% of all students received
scholarships); (ui) the need to reorient enrollment towards fields of study that offer the best prospect
for wage or self employment (more than 60% of the university sudents in Niger are enroled in
humanities and social science programs); and (Iv) the declining quality caused lrely by the



-10 -
unresicted enrollment growth and the priority given In the use of the higher education budget to
student subsidies rather than to teaching and research.
S.    Weak Plannlng and Management Capacity
2.30   The education sector employs the single largest group in the civil service (more than onethird
of Niger's civil servants). The Government's ability to use these resources cost-effecdvely is
hampered by its weak capacity for personnel planning and management, supervision of teachers,
monoig resowce use, and implementing and evaluating education improvement programs. Prior
to grade six, monitoring of student learning is the responsibility of individual schools and teachers,
without benefit of standard guidelines. Comparing student performance -thereby identfying weak
schools-is difficult and hampers dmely remedial action to improve schools. Student assesment
between grades one and five is ineffective. The effectiveness of the inspectorates system needs
improvement in order to strengthen local initiatives and to Improve the quality of education at the
primary school level. The ongoing education project has initiated a program of support in most of
these areas; however, this program needs to be deepened and decentalized (para 3.46).
C. The Government's Strategy
2.31   The main objective of the Governmenes Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan (EER?)
Is to lay the foundation for education development in line with resource availability while giing
absolute priority to primary education development. The strategy recognizes that resources for
education wil remain constrained in the medium term  and initiates a number of cost-efficiency
measures. For primary education, the key elements retained by the EERP (and supported by the
proposed project) are: (a) to expand access by increasing the share of pubiic education expenditures
allocated for primary education, and promoting the girls access to primary education; (b) to increase
the cost-effectveness of resource use in the education sector by Improving the efficiency by which
teachers are trained and used, conaining student subsidies, and promoting private and commmuity
financing in education; and (c) to Improve quality by promoting teacher retraining, providing more
pedagogic and materil support, and improving the nutritional status of primary students. Ihe
Government also plans to strengthen the analytical capacity of central and decentized units in
planning, budgeting, evaluation, and monitoring. To help develop a large consensus among key
players in the education sector on the reform measures contained in this program, the EERP was
discussed etensively with the teachers' union, represeltatives of the Parent Associations, local
communities, and the MEN staff.
D. The Bank Group's Role
2.32  Lessons IntW  frmm     logvuprects. This would be the third IDA-financed education
projectinNiger. ThefirstEducationProject (Cr.1151-NIR, effective inJuly 1982, US$21.5 million)
financed the development of two agricultural schools. The project was closed onJune 30, 1990 (two
and one-half yeas behind schedule) and the PCR shows that, while physical implementation of this
project faced no serious problems, the project's development impact was reduced by low capacity
utlizadon at the two schools and high reurrent costs. The former resulted from the Government's
financial inability to recruit new graduates to civfl service employment at the rate foreseen at
appraisal, combined with too slow action on the part of the school to develop programs which
addressed training needs in the private sector. The high unit cost was largely cawsed by the low
capacity utilization and reflected the failure to reduce staffing in step with the enrollment decline.
To remedy this situation, the closing date of the project was extended twice to help the Government



- 11 -
develop and implement restructuring measures that liberated infrastructure (t be used for griculual
research) and staff for other functions within the rura sector. The ProJect Completion Repott offers
the following two lessons: First, supervision of a lending operation designed to establish or strengthen
Intitional capacity needs to focus on the long-term impact and sustanabiity of the capacity crated,
rather than more narrowly on atunent of physical targets defined at appraisal. Second,
restructuring or down-scaling of education instutions is often a very sensitive issue. To be
successful, such reforms require extensive consensus-building among the various groups affected at
the national level.
2.33 Ihe second project (Primary Education Development Project-Cr. 1740-NM, effective In May
1987, US$18.4 million) is expected to be closed in December 1994. Exmecudon of this project and
disbursement are on schedule, and most covenants are in compliance. Seven hundred fifty primary
school classrooms have been constructed. While, due to cost underestimtion at appraiSal, the
ambitious target for classroom rehabilitation was not met (the rehabilitation program covered 3,000
or 46% of all classrooms at project start) as many as 1,738 classrooms has been renovated. The
majority of unqualified teachers have been upgraded to semi-qualified teachers. Double-shift teaching
(foreseen only as an experiment in 40 urban classes) had been established in 139 classes in 1991 when
It was abandoned by the National Conference (para 2.8). However, as part of resumption of
processing of the proposed project, it was reintroduced in October 1993 in 207 classrooms.
2.34   Ihis generally positive picture has been marred by two issues. First, as dicussed in par
2.18, textbook production was delayed due to an over-ambitious assessment at appraisa of the
capacity of the National Pedagogical Institute to develop and test manuscripts for new textbooks.
Second, the Government failed to contain the higher education scholarships budget after 1991 (para
2.8). The lessons from both these projects have been built into the prearation of the proposed
project. In particular, project preparation has emphasized national conSeus-building to gain wide
acceptance to the reform program support  regarding double-shift teaching, restructuring of teacher
raining and reduction in sludent scholarships. Furermore, the project supports an extensive
naional cwsultationprocess to develop a consensus on higher educationreforms. Finally, the project
supports trasferring of the responsibility for preparation of manuscripts for primary school texbooks
from the public to the private sector.
2.35   Rationale for IDA in y n. The Country Assistance Strategy for Niger is presested to
the Board in a freestanding document together with this operation. The strategy is designed to: (I)
address long-term human capital (mcluding poverty alleviation) and natural resource issues; (fi) build
public and private sector institutions to promote private sector based growth; (iii) incrase efficiency
of public resource management; and (iv) support actions to facilitate supply respone in the wake of
the devaluation of the CFAF. The proposed project is a central part of this stratWy which recognizes
that Niger's very low level of education development adversely affects the economic returns of
investments in aU other sectors and, that the country's long-erm growth prospects are seriously
treatened by the population's low educational atainment and skill levels. As a key partner in the
establishment of macroeconomic policy, IDA is in a privileged position to help the Goveranmen
design and implement the urgent education reforms supported through this project as well as to
mobilize support from other donors for these reforms.



- 12 -
PART m.  EPROJECT
A. Project Objectives and description
3.1    lhe project would support the implementlon of the Government Emergency Education
Rehabilitation Plan (EERP) between 1994 and 1999 which is designed to achieve the following targets
during the 1999/2000 school-year: (a) raise admission into grade one of primary education by 40%;
(b) increase the share of girls enrollment in primary education from 36% to 40%, and (c) reduce the
percentage of repetition in primary education from 16% to 10%. Attaining these targets would result
in an increase in the primary school enrollment ratio from 29% in 1993/94 to 35% by 1999/2000.
The project is a bykid, comprised of (i) a Setr Refo"n Progm, supported by general budgetary
assistance released in two tranches, and designed to promote more cost-effective use of public
educationresources; and (ii) a Sector'mtestnent Progrm designed to increase access to and quality
of primary education and to improve the Government's capacity to plan and manage resource use in
the education sector. Project components are described below.
PROJECT CQCMPONENT
1. Inplmeetlng a Sectoral Reform Program (SRP) (US$20 mMlion)    to:
(a)    Increase public qditures on primary educadon;,
) 0    Ebxtend fte use of double-shift teaching in primary educaton;
(¢)    Resuctur and consoliate taining of primary school teachers;
(d)    Consoaaining of seconduy school teachers;
(e)    Use teachemoe efficiety in general secondary education; and
-- Contan sudent sub          in seiondary and higher education.
2. Improving Access to and Qaality of Prbmy Educaton (US1.2 mllon) by:
(a)    Constrating about 1,770 primary school classrooms and rehabitating about 1,500 clasoms;
(b)    Developing and implementing a progamn to acceler  gils' educaion;
(c)    Improving the qualiy of prmary school teacher training programs;
(d)    Providing about 1.6 millon prmary school textbooks, 1.2 million matheatic workbooks, sad 30,000
teach  guides; and
(e)    Supporting a GovenuentIUNICEF-run mironutrita program.
3. Strengtheg Secor Mangerial and Planing Capacities (US4.8 min) by:
(a)    Strengthei   the capacity of the MEN to muge resources, and implement and evaluae education
improvement pwgrams;
(b)    Improv  the efficieacy of deetaied sector planing and managemet;% and
(c)    Ppaing a development ategy for hgher educaton.
1.     Implementing a Sectoral Reform Program (SRP)
3.2 To achieve the SRP objectives, time-bound quantitative targets for a set of sik policy
meues have been agreed upon with the Government and incorporated into the Letter of Education
Sector Development Policy (para 3.15). The quick-disbursing budgetary support would be released
in two tranches against key actions to be taken under the program. Ibe first tranche would be
released when the condins f cdieffctivm           are met and the second upon completion of the
retorms described below. Review criteria for the two tranche relases are summaized below under



- 13 -
each measure and are annexed to the Letter of Education Sector Development Policy (A=ez.
Paras 3.70 and 3.73 summarize the SRP's budgetary, social, and economic impacts.
3.3   Measure 1: Ing=g Public ependii  pg inary edu      . To ensur attsJnment of the
project's enuollment and quality objectives, this measure contains three elements. First, to atin the
35% enrollment ratio in the 1999/2000 school year will imply an increase in enrollment by 183,000
pupils, or by 45% compared to 1993194. Taking into account the increased use of double-shift
teaching (para 3.5) and the continued use of multigrade teaching, about 520 new teaching posidons
need to be created annually during the five-year period 1994/9S-1999/2000. To cater to this demand
as well as to the need for replacing teachers who retire, an average of 720 new teachers would need
to be trained annually. Second, to Improve the quality of education the project would provide one
book per pupil in principal subject matters. In order to support the effective use of these textbooks,
the budget line item for school supplies to primary school students needs to be increased over the
project period-by annual increments of CFAF 80 million-from about CFAF 360 mfllion in 1993 to
CFAF 760 million in 1999. Third, to accommodate the increased enrollment, about 520 new
classrooms need to be constructed each year. Under the ongoing education project the Government
has provided about CFAF 600 million annually for primary school construction. Under the proposed
project, the Government would continue to allocate CFAF 600 million per year, permitting the
construction and equipment of about 120 classrooms per year.
3.4    Over the five-year project period, the above three elements would increase public
expenditures on education by a total of CFAF 8.8 billion (CFAF 3 billion in capital cost, CFAF 1.2
billion in instructional materials, and CFAF 4.6 billion in teacher salaries) representing an average
of CFAF 1.76 billion per year. Expressed as a percentage of the 1992/93 education budget, this
corresponds to an increase in public expenditures on primary education ranging from 3% in 1995 to
9% in 1999. The extent to which this would require an increase in the share of the Goverament
budget devoted to education will depend on how successful the Government is in reallocating
resources from post-primary to primary education. The firs t tr anclWe Wveness
would be conditional on (a) the Borrower having made budgetary allowance for, and recuited at least
520 additional primary school teachers for the 1994/95 school year; and (b) sdmission of at least 720
additional teacher trainees to TMCs for the 1994/95 school year. ITe second tranche leas would
be cotiditional on (a) the Borrower having made budgetary allowance for, and recruited at least 520
additional primary school teachers for the 1995/96 school year; (b) admission of at least 720
additional teacher trainees to TTCs for the 1995/96 school year; (c) construction of 120 primary
school classrooms during the 1994/95 school year; and (d) adoption of the 1995 remurent expendue
t dget, and the 1995/1997 rolling threeyear public investment program for education, acceptable to
ILA.
3.5   Measure 2: Extend the use of doublehift tgaching in primary education. The difficulty in
gaining acceptance for doubleshift teaching in Niger has been discussed in para 2.8. As part of the
resumption of IDA's processing of this project, Niger has developed and implemented a sound
strategy to promote a better understanding of the needs for doubleshift teaching among critical
actors, thus leading to the reopening of double-shift teaching in 207 classrooms in October 1993.
The strategy includes: (a) information and sensitization campaigns to explain to parents, teachers and
the teachers' union the merits of such a system, particularly in light of the extreme urgency of
increasing the coverage of primary education despite the current resource-constrained suuation; (b)
tining of teachers in its use; (c) gradual introduction of the technique to permit a consensus on its
merit; and (d) monitoring and evaluation of pupils' achievement to show parents and teachers that
the double-shift teaching does not impair quality. This approach wil be continued and deepened



- 14-
under the SRP. Double-shift teaching would be increased to 690 classrooms by 1999 (about 69.000
pupils) in the first three grades of urban schools. The targets agreed upon for the intermediat years
are 440 classes for 1994t95, 670 for 1995/96, and 690 each year from 1996-97 to 1999/2000.
3.6    Compared to a situation where the 35% enrollment ratio in 1999 were to be achieved in the
absence of this reform, over the five-year project period, this measure would genere indiret
budgetary cost savings totalling about CFAF 5,820 milion, I.e., about CFAF 1,850 million in
teacher salaries, CFAF S20 million for traiiWg of new teachers, and CFAF 3,450 million for
classroom construction and equipment (Annex 10). Ihe Letter of Education Sector Development
Policy (para 3.15) confirms the above quantitative annual targets for the number of double-shift
classes to be opened each year to attain the 1999/2000 objective. The first tranche releaselcredit
effecivenes would be conditional on the introduction of double-ift classes in at least 440 prImary
school classes for the 1994195 school year. Ihe seeon tranche release would be conditional on the
introduction of double-shift classes in a total of at least 670 primary school classes for the 1995/96
school year.
3.7   Measure 3:  Restruct  and consolidate training of primary school te- hers.  The
shortcomings of present teacher tining colleges (ITCs) are discussed in paras 2.16 and 2.22. As
part of the proposed project preparation, the Government -stopped recuiment into the four-year IN
program in October 1989 (the last promotion completed the training in June 1993). Part of the
taining capacity thus liberated has been transformed to other uses as one 1TC has been converted
into a general secondary school. The remaining capacity liberated by abolishing the four-year
program will be used to expand the output of the two-year INA program and establish a new one-year
IN program. To limit primary school salary costs (para 2.23), the four remaining TMC. would
recruit trainees annually on a basis of 85% INAs and 15% INs instead of the 1992 level of 46% INs.
The new organization of the TrCs would permit (a) an increase in the annal output of teachers
(from 400 to 720), thus permitting training of the additional teachers needed to achieve the prMy ct's
tget for primary education growth with only four of the exsting five Ts; (b) provision of in-
service training for about 600 teachers per year; and (c) achievement of (a) and @) by reducing the
teaching staff of the TrCs from 94 to 62.
3.8    Over the five-year project period this measure would generate indirect budgetary savings
totalling CFAF 1,095 million, i.e., about CFAF 225 million in TMCs teacher salaries, CFAF 870
million in primary teacher salaries. Expressed as a percentage of the 1992/93 education budget, the
average annual cost savings for this measure corresponds to 0.8%. lh  fit Xtr   rele di
ecivne  would be conditional on (a) redeployment of 32 TIC teachers to lydes by effectiveness;
and (b) recruitment of teacher trainees into TMCs on the basis of 85% INAs and 15% INs for the
1994/95 school year. The second tranche release would be conditional on recruitment of teachers
trainees into TICM on the basis of 85% INAs and 15% INs for the 1995/96 school year.
3.9    Measure 4: Consolidate tlninj of secondary shool teachers. The inefficiency in the
present raining of secondary school teachers are described in para 2.26. Under the SRP, the Faculty
of P6dagogy would be transformed into an Ecole Normale SWprteure (ENS) that would train teachers
for both lower and upper secondary education through one-year pedagogical programs for students
who have already completed their subject mater training at the Faculty of Science or Faculty of
Humanities. Under the new system, a lower secondary school teacher (PCEG) would complete a fir
universt degree in either of these two faculties (two years), and receive one year of pedagogical
training at the ENS resulting in a toal of three years post-accalaureat training compared with two
yers in the present system. The extended duration of training represents a desirable improvement



- 15-
in teacher quaity. The professional degree awarded at the end of the pedagogical training will be
the same as now. Thus, the salary level of a PCEG wil remain unchanged. Upper-secondary
teachers would complete a four-year degree followed by one year of pedagogical training at the ENS.
3.10  Over the five-year project period this measure would geneme indirect budgetary cost savings
totalling about CFAF 530 millon. The cost saving derive from the difference in unit costs betwee
providing the first two years of subject matter training at the Faculty of Humanities (ChAF 606,200)
and Faculty of Science (CFAF 1,149,500), as compared to CFAF 1,185,200 at the FP. The fDi
trnche  i     t      Lei would be 20nditional on the issuance of the appropriate legal
insument transforming the Faculty of Pedagogy at the University of Niamey into an ENS with a
program acceptable to IDA, and release of the weoin,   would be conditional on no new
admission of teacher trainees to secondary teacher programs other than those of the Ecole Normae
Supreure as of the 1995/96 school year.
3.11   Measure 5: yUp    e  Mr efficienty in general seconda  eduation. Ihe under-
utilization of general secondary teachers are described in pam 2.27. Under the SRP the Govermnent
would increase the utilization of the teachers to meet the official weekly hours required (21 hours for
lower-seconda  school teachers and 18 hours for upper-secondary school teachers). Given the gain
of about 100 teachers resulting from this measure, the Government would (a) cancel 76 contracts
(mainy foreigners); and (b) provide a total of 24 teachers to  ix  secondary schools in lieu of
monetary subsidies (Government subsidies to primary and secondary prvate schools amount to CFAF
150 million per year since 1989. Of this amount, private secondary schools receive 82% for
teachers' salaries support).
3.12  Over the five-year projectperiod, this measure would generate indirectbudgetary cost savings
of about CFAF 570 million in salary costs and CFAF 90 million in training costs. Th s
trane MIa= would be conditional on i) proof of cancellation of at least 76 teacher contracts; and
(b) proof of provision of an additional 24 secondary teachers to private schools.
3.13  Measure 6: Contain student subsidies in secondary and higer education. To contain the
rapid increase of student subsidies (para 2.8), the SRP contais two elements. First, the scholarship
budget for general secondary education would be frozen, i nopS terms, at CFAF 1.6 billion over
the project period. Second, student scholarships in higher education (CFAF 3.9 billion including
CFAP 1.6 billion for studens abroad) and subsidies (CFAF 1.6 million) would be reduced from a
1993 total of CFAF 5.5 billion to CFAF 3.5 billion by 199912000. The targets for the interiediate
years are CFAF 4.8 billion for 1994/95; CFAF 4.6 billion for 1995/96; CFAF 4.2 billion for
1996/97; CFAF 3.9 billion for 1997/98; and CEAF 3.5 billion for 1998/99.
3.14 Compared to spending in 1992/93, this measure would result in direct savings of CFAF 7.8
bilion over the five-year project period. Expressed as a percentage of the 1992193 education budget,
the average anmual saving conesponds to 5%. The £iM tanche release/effectiveness would be
conditional on (a) reducing the higher education scholarship bu 'get to CFAF 4.8 billion in 1994; and
(b) maintaining spending for seconday studen subsidies at CFAF 1.6 billion in 1994. ThIesnd
alce release would be conditional on (a) reducing the higher education scholarship spending to
CFAF 4.6 billion in 1995; and (b) maintainig spending for secondary student subsidies at CFAF 1.6
billion in 1995.
3.15  Implementation of the M. 'Me SREP would be implemented by the MEN in consultation
with the Ministries of Plan, Finance, and Civil Service and Employment; and monitored by the



- 16-
existing Interministerial Technical Committee headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Plan
(para 4.2). The Governement has provided IDA with a signed Letter of Education Sector
Development Policy confirming its intention to apply the SRP. During negotiations, the Government
gave assuranies that it would implement the overall reform and investment program supported by this
project in accordace with a set of monitorable time-bound indicators annexed to the letter.
3.16  Licaeot,eSeorlRenProgrg  iW CASadQverallAd n. IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy presented in a freestanding document together with this operation, emphasizes
human resource development as a priority objective. The SRP would reinforce, at the sector level,
key elements of Niger's macroeconomic program, especially with respect to promoting more efficient
use of public resources, increasing resources allocated to primary education and improving the
program's poverty focus. Details of the project budgetary, economic, and social impacts are given
in paras 3.70 - 3.73, while Annex 9 provides a summary of the cost savings and incremental
expenditures generated by the policies and investments supported by the project.
2.    Improving Access to and Quality of Primary Education (US51.2 million)
3.17 Xhis component supports the Government's objectives to (i) increase the primary enrollment
ratio from 29% to 35% by 1999; (ii) spread educational opportunities more equitably between urban
and rural areas, and between boys and girls; and (iii) pursue programs and policies to improve the
quality and efficiency of primary education and of the training of primary school teachers. There are
five sub-compoents: (a) constructing about 1,710 priuary school classrooms and rehabilitating 1,500
classrooms; (b) developing and implementing a program to accelerate girls' participation in education;
(c) improving the quality of primy  school teacher training progms; (d) providing 1.6 million
primary school textbooks, 1.2 million mathematic workbooks, and 30,000 teacher guides; and (e)
supporting a Government/UNICEF-run micronutrients program
(a)    Constructin  about 1.770 primary school classrooms and rehab&lltatlng about
1.500 nrimarv classrooms (US$31.4 mil1ion_q
3.18  ghiobje  . To reach the Government's objectives of 35 % primary school enrollment in 1999
would require construction of about 2,600 classrooms during the perod 1994/1999 to provide for
about 183,000 additional students. The proposed project would contribute to this program by
financing construction and equipping of about 1,770 new classrooms of which 84% would be in rural
areas. Of the remainig 830 new classrooms necessary to implement the required program of 2,600
classrooms, financing for 575 classrooms has already been secured under programs of other donors
including: IDA, under Cr. 1740-NIR (80 classrooms); KfW (160 classrooms); Japan (90 classrooms);
and NMOs (45 classrooms). Given past trends, it is anticipated that the balance (255 classrooms)
would be secured by communities. Furthenmore, to help protect the existing infrastructure, the
project would rehabilitate about 1,500 classrooms. Priority will be given to schools which are
overcrowded and where double-shift is to be expanded, and schools where multigrade teaching is
introduced to increase access and teacher-pupils ratio. Finally, the proposed project would also
continue efforts launched under the ongoing project as regards ensuring adequate building
maintenance by local communities.
3.19  D. Classroom construction would be based on two approaches. Ihe first approach
was developed by the Ministry of Education under the ongoing education project o reduce the high
costs associated with construction implemented by the Ministry of Public Works before 1986. The
approach is labor intensive, and uses simple local construction techniques and a standard constuction
design. The construction is performed by small, private contractors who use a kit of standard



-17-
construcdon matedals provided by the project and make extensive use of local labor, threby
providing on average 650 jobs each year. The same approach Is used for primary school
rehabUltation with the exception that all necessary construction materials are dlrecty purchased by
counractos. Under the ongoing project, this approach has permitted a reduction in the cost per
classrom by about 50% (para 2.6). About 750 classrooms have been cstructed and more dm
1,700 classrooms have been renovated following this approach.
3.20 The second approach, which is new, is designed to delegate more responsibility to local
communities. This approach has proven economical and efficient in Mauritania. I would be tested
in Niger and would cover up to 25% of the construction progm. Communities would be
responsible for the construction of their schools, either by doing the work themselves or by
contractng the work out to a local artisan or small entrepreneur. The coummnity's responsibilites
for the execution of the classroom constructon program and that of the Goverament for providing
finmcial and technical assisance would be deflned in a contract signed by the two parties before
beginnig of construction. Under this new approach, communities would receive a grant equivalent
to 90% of the esdmated construction cost, paid in four tranches (at completion of respectively: (a)
foundations; (O) walls; (c) roof; and (d) finishing respectively, based on work completed if
accordance with agreed plans and specifications. Results of this second approach would be evauatd
at the mid-term review.
3.21 For both approaches, eligibility for school construction would be on a competitive basis and
planned yeady. Prioity would go to: (a) departments with less than 35% primary enrollment ratio;
(b) rura communies with a catchment area that allows for at least 45 pupils per classroom or %hat
use multigrade teaching; and kc) urban areas where double-shift teaching is used to Increase access.
Approval for classroom construLlon would be based on criteria of the commuity's commitment to
education (e.g., progress in increasing girls' paricipation in education, construction of laies,
fencing, or other physical annexes, and payment of teachers' salaries). Most of the classrooms would
be associated with existing schools. Classroom constction would be done in accordance with
approved Bank standards which result in no adverse environmenal impact. There would be no
displacement of people.
3.22  hleatwion   n  anmIn=M. Based on the very successful experience of the ongoing
project, the School Construction Bureau of the Ministry of Education (BIES) would be responsible
for overall supervision and management of the program and would: (a) prepare consolidated
consuction, rehabiitation, and maintenance budgets; (b) establish a database with upo-date
information on unit construction costs, space requirements, and criteria for determining priorites;
(c) design a safety net program to ensure adequate construction coverage for the poorest communities;
(d) organize local information campaigns on the importance of adequate building mantenance; and
(e) certify paymens to suppliers, contractors, and communities. At the departmental levels
(Direors and Inspectorases), the regional construction coordinators under BIBS' supervsion
would: (a) inventory the quantity and physical condition of school facilities; (b) prepare departmentl
work programs for construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance; and (c) supervise the construction
and rehabilitation prgram. Details are provided in Annex I
3.23   hW et       . The project would fhace: (a) constructionof 1,770 classrooms and related
furitre. Of this total, the IDA credit would finance 290 classrooms, Germany (through KfW) 880
classrooms, and the Government the remaining 600 classrooms; (b) rehabilitation of 1,500 classrooms
and related furniture financed by IDA; (c) salaries of the three nationally recruited regional
coordinators for classroom construction; (d) six months of short-term consultants for construction



*18-
program management and techical audis; (e) tbreemonth fellowships for BES staff and tree-
monh sub-regional traiing for the regional coordinators; (f) equipment and one veicle for BIBS and
the vehicles for the regional coordinators; and (g) incrementa opeating cos for BIES and regional
coordinators. The Govment would fance salaries for civil servant-teachers who would staff the
new classrooms (para 3.3). As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted a construction
program Including site aquisition for the first year of the project. As a condition of crit
effeeveness, the Government would appoint the three regional coordinators. Details of project
financing are in   M  13.
(b)    D lopinE and implementing a program to aeoderate gis'  ucitIon (US1.1
mUlmi
3.24 Qbectives 11.is sub-component supports the Government's objectives to increase the share
of girls' enrollment in primary education. The level of female adult literacy (9%) and share of girls'
enrollment in primary education (36%) in Niger are among the lowest in the world. Girls education
has been shown to have a powerful beneficial impact on factors such as fertiity, agricultural
productivity, health, and nutridon, as well as on certain social, political, and personal values which
promote development. Therefore, in Its efforts to develop primary education, the Government is
givn increased importance to girls' education.
3.25            . Although the expansion of access to primay education provided for under this
project will help increase girls' participation, research from many countries shows that girls'
enrollment depends not only on the availability of schools but also on a variety of other factors
related to the school, home, and community. In particular, factors such as distance to school, poor
qaliy and seemingly irrelevant education, high opportunity costs, concern for girls' moral safety,
poor modern sector employment prospects, and negative attitudes to girls' and women's education
are generally found to have a negative impact on girls' propensity to enroll and persist at school. To
reduce the barriers hampering girls' enrollment and attendance, the Ministry of Education MEN) has
prepared a draft action plan which was further developed during the Bank-sponsored regional
workshop on girls' education held in Senegal in January 1994.
3.26  lhis plan includes: (a) elaboration and distribution of complementary pedagogical materis
to correct gender stereotypes following an evaluation of existing materials; (b) administrative reforms
to promote female teachers as school Directors and inspectors, to lower the admission age at the first
grade of primary education In order to improve girls' chances to complete primary school before
maturity, and to accommodate the school schedule to rural girls' constraints (family and home
demands); and (c) an information campaign to sensitize the population to the benefits of educating
girls e.g., development of promotional materials disseminated through radio and TV, and local
workshops for policy makers and traditional leaders. Within the proposed project, and in addon
to stimuladng girls' enrollment through general measures such as classroom construction (para 3.18),
provision of teaching materials (para 3.37), and teacher traing (para 3.29), provision of
micronutrients toprima  school students (para 3.41), the strategy to boost girls' enrollment would
also tie the eligibility for school construction (para 3.21) to progress made by local communities in
increasing girls' participation in education.
3.27 JmWOmUnfatiMn arraQngjm=n. 'he MEN is conducting a study to document economic and
demand constraints causing gender bias in education, with a view to making specific recommendations
which wil be supported under this project to address these constrais. The combined recommenda-
tions of the study and the action plan would be implemented staring during the 1994/1995 school



- 19 -
year. Under the proposed project, the Goverament would strngthen the capacity of the MEN to
coordinate and implement activities designated to promote grs' educadon by establishing a  special
uit (CeuTle de Promodon de la Scolarisadon das FUles - CPSF), under the Minister of Education
chawed with this task. The CPSF would work closely wih the ME's pedagogical nstit which
will be responsible for developing the complementay pedagogic materis. Among CPSF duties
would be conducting more detailed and systematic data collecton and analysis-in cootdination with
the Planning Directorate of the MEN-of gender specific issues in education, particulaly in primay
education (e.g., regional and socioeconomic patterns with respect to enrollment, girls' repetition and
dropout, orientation and tracer studies of female students, and recruitment and deployment of female
teachers).
3.28  Pgoject suXort Ikhe project would finance: (a) one vehicle, equipment, and related
incremental recurrent costs for the CPSF; (b) regional workshops and field visits for CPSF and
Inspectorates staff; (c) two months of sub-regional training for CPSF staff, 14 months of short-term
consultants for evaluation of female stereotypes in textbooks, design of supplemery pedagogic
matials providing positive images of girls, and preparation and implementation of the IEC
campaign; (d) salary of the nationally recruited non-civil servant CPSF coordinator; (e) printing and
distrbution of the supplementary pedagogical materials designed to correct female stereotypes In
existing textbooks; and (f) about CFAF 100 million to support implementation of recommendations
of the study on economic and demand factors causing gender bias, to be decided upon in agreement
with IDA. As a condition of n gtgons, the Government submitted to IDA terms of reference for
the EtC campaign. At   gigns, the Govemment gave aL%nnc  that it would: (a) establish the
CPSF by October 1994, with terms of reference and staffing acceptable to IDA; and (b) by December
31, 1994, review with MDA the recom   ions of the study on economic and demand factors
causing gender bias in education, and agree with IDA on a time-ound action program. Details of
project financing are in Annex 13.
(c)   Improving the quality of primar school teacher trainig programs (US7,2
million)
3.29   Objectives. This sub-component supports implementation of reforms to be carried out under
the SRP (para 3.7) to improve quality, efficiency, and output of existing teacher training colleges
(1rs). Revision of the programs for pre-service and inservice training would reinforce other
aspects of the project by covering teaching methodology (mcluding tecniques for teaching in
multigrade and double-ift classrooms), the use of new textbooks, promotion of girls' education,
envronmental education, nutritional education, school maintenance and management, and time-
tabling.
3.30  Description of the Preservice training. The need for reform in organizational structure as
well as in the training programs content for primary school teachers is described in para 2.22. The
organiztional reforms supported under this project to reduce training and teacher salary costs have
been described in para 3.7. This component supports a revision of the training programs content.
Work to this end has already been started by the Government with the support of FAC, and is largely
designed to make the training more practical. To achieve this, the   -y  rkaining pog[am for
INAs would: (1) during the first year (30 weeks) include three weels of field work: a one-week
itroductory awareness training session, a one-week observation session, and a one-week of guided
classroom teaching; and (u) during the second year (30 weeks) include an eight-week session of
unguided classroom teaching. The gye   aiping Vro for INs, totalling 30 weeks, would



-20 -
include one week guided practice teaching session and a four-week session of unguided classroom
teaching.
3.31 To allow students enrolled In pre-service training programs to gain practical experience and
to develop synergy and interaction between pre-service and in-service training, during their field
work, TIC students will share training sessions with experienced teachers who are undergoing in-
service traning tbrough the teaches study groups (CeUide dAn' adon Pidagoglque-CAPED, para
3.33). In addition TIC stents wfll receive direct support from school directors, and would be
visited at least once by either a TIC staff, pedagogic advisors, or school inspectors. At the end of
the field training a two-day workshop would be held at the lTCs with the participation of TIC staff,
school inspectors, and pedagogic advisors to evaluate the students' practice session in order to
improve the organizaion of the field trainng as well as the teaching methods and the curriculum of
the pre-service training. This new organization would allow for 120 hours of pedagogic and
education courses per trimester, and 60 hours of field supervision by T1C staff in close coordination
with the school inspectors and pedagogic advisors.
3.32  Iiemenstaion aramngQmem. The Directorate of Primary Education (DEPD) would be
responsible for overall supervision and management of the pre-srice program and would: (a)
organize the interaction between TICs and school inspectorates; (b) monitor the   lenttion of
the new program developed with FAC support; (c) ensure that TTC staff provide 60 hours of field
supervision per trimester; and (d) ensure the support under the project is efficiently coordinated with
FAC interventions. Complementary to this project, FAC plans under its 1994/1996 program to: (a)
upgrade the skills of the TIC staff, (b) improve training programs at TICs by supporting
haronization of the curriculum for both INs and INAs; and (c) support amexed primary school to
TICs for students practice sessions.
3.33 Descriotion of the in-service training. IThe in-service training would continue to be run
trough the very successful and efficient teachers study group established in networks of closely-
located schools (CAPED), and developed during the ongoing project. There are about SO0 existing
CAPED operating under the supervision of senior teachers and/or pedagogic advisors, and school
inspectors. Generally, each CAPED covers 5 schools. The CAPEDs take advantage of the students'
one-day mid-week break, to organize in-service training for teachers each week alternating between
different schools belonging to one CAPED. This method has proven to be more cost-effective than
the large seminar traditionally organized at the central or departmental levels which implied long
distance travel for teachers and payment of perdiems. The teachers receive no extra payment for
their participation in the CAPED. To strengthen this organization, the project would support three
development phases for the in-service training ptogram. The initial phas would include trning
of a National Pedagogical Mobile Team (NPMT) of four staff (two from the ENS, one from
INDRAP, and one from DEPD), based at ENS, to improve the inservice training skills of school
inspectors and TrC staff. In the econd phas, to be conducted in each inspectorate, the NPMT
would upgrade the skills of pedagogical advisors and school directors. In the thirdiphas, the NPMT
would provide direct support to the CAPED on a demand-driven basis. The TIC staff, during their
field supervision missions, and TIC students in unguided practice sessions (para 3.30) would
participate in the activities of the CAPED.
3.34 As described in para 3.7, in addition to the in-service training provided through the CAPEDs
the new orgaization of the pre-service training would allow about 600 teachers facing pedagogiczl
difficulties to benefit from in-service training organized at TCs for four weeks each year, This
system would permit them to upgrade their skills, particularly in teahing methods, and double-shift



-21 -
and multigrade teaching. Over the project period, about 3,000 teachers (more than one-third of the
existng primary teaching force) would benefit from the four-week retraining sessions.
3.35  Implementation arrangements. Ihe Directorate of Primay Education (DEPD) would be
responsible for overall supervision and management of the in-service training program. Within the
eight departments, each Regional Director of Education, in close coordination with the school
Inspectors and TIC directors, would be responsible for organizing and supervising the CAPEDs;
ensuring the synergy between pre-service and in-service taining; and monitoring TIC students' field
work. Selection of teachers benefitting from the in-service training provided at the TICs, as well
as decision on the content of the related training would be made by the school inspectors and
pedagogic advisors in collaboration with TTC staff. Details are provided in Annex 11.
3.36  EprQg  =grt. The project would finance for the pre.swvce training: (a) purchase of
existing teaching guides, manuals, pedagogic materials, equipment, and related incremental recuent
costs for the four TICs; (b) rehabilitation of the four TICs and related fumiture financed by
Germany through KNW; (c) one vehicle for each TIC for students' field work and field supervision
of TTC staff; (d) three-month fellowships for four TTC staff; and (e) in-service training at the ENS
for 62 ITC staff. Outside this project, FAC would provide complementary support to assist ENS
in developing its capacity to train trainers for the TTCs, as well as to develop education management
taning courses. The project would finance for the in-seice training: (a) pedagogic equipment and
one vehicle for the NPMT; (b) office equipment and vehicles for the 46 primary school inspectorates;
(c) pedagogic equipment and guides for the CAPED; (d) cost of printing material for the CAPED;
(e) workshops to train NPMT staff, school inspectors, advisors, school directors; (f) field trining
and supervision for NPMT staff; and (g) a 25% overtime payment for teachers participating In the
double-shift teaching program. As a condition of negotiwato, the Government submitted a program,
satisfactory to IDA, for the first year of the in-service training activities. Details of project financing
are in Annex 13.
(d)   Providing 1.6 milllon primary textbooks, 1.2 mllion mathematics Worgbooks,
and 30.000 teachers' guides (=SS11A4 millionl
3.37 Objectives. To improve education quality, this component would increase availability of
textbooks and school materials. By 1999, the combined effort of the ongoing and proposed project
would achieve the following textbook ratios: one mathematics workbook per pupil per year for the
first two grades; one reading textbook per pupil for each of grades 1-6; one mathematics book per
pupil for each of grades three through six; one grammar book, and one social sciences book for two
pupils for each of grades three through six; and one history/geography book for two pupils for each
of grades five and six. With respect to textbooks in the national langes, one reading book, one
lange practice book, and one mathematics book per pupil would be provided to studens enrolled
In nationa language schools (para 2.20).
3.38  regriwt. Ihe project would provide 34 tides (ncluding nine in naional lnguages) of
which 12 are reprints of textbooks produced under the ongoing project; 11 titles of teachers' guides
including five reprints; and school supplies and materials to support the effective use of textbooks.
The program totals about 1.6 million primary school textbooks; 1.2 million mathematics workbooks;
30,000 teachers' guides; and 75,000 textbooks in national languages. Lockers for safe-keeping of
books would be provided to schools. During the first two years, 610,000 of the existing textbooks,
600,000 reprints of the existing mathematics workbooks, and 12,000 teachers' guides would be
reprintd. Before the end of the fourth project year 976,000 new textbooks, 75,000 textbooks in



.22 -
aional languages, 18,000 new teachers' guides, and the remaining 600,000 reprints of existing
mathematics workbooks would be procured. No cost recovery for textbooks is planned. Textbooks
are to be loaned free of charge because of the general poverty of the population, the urgent need to
improve pupils' access to pedagogical materials, and the positive effect free books is expected to have
on girls' enrollment. However, students would be responsible for the replacement of lost books.
3.39  Imwmw1atign a=g&m=n=a. 'Me Nationat Pedagogical Institute  IDRAP) would be
responsible for overall inplementation of this sub-component. In order to avoid delays experienced
under the ongoing education project (para 2.18) manuscript preparation would be entusted under this
project to private authors selected through local compedtive biddig. The existing national textbook
selection committee, with assistance from subject specialists, would be responsible for manuscript
apprval. INDRAP would assure the secretariat of this national committee. Editing, ilustration,
design, printing, and reprinting would be contracted dtough interational competitive biding.
INDRAP would be responsible for bidding document preparation and would develop its capacity in
manuscrpt and textbook evaluation and quality control, and teacher training in the use of the
textbooL. Local competitive bidding would be adopted for direct delivery of the books to the
schools. Each school would establish a committee (comprised of Parents' Associations and teachers)
responsible for the management of the textbooks. In the event of delays in providing new textbooks
to students, the Government has agreed that books would be procured from the market through
lntenational competitive bidding based on pedagogical assessment and price. In order to accurately
determine the size necessary to effectively operate INDRAP, an audit will be undertaken and
INDRAP staff no longer necessary would be redeployed to other positions. Details are provided in
Annex 12.
3.40  PToje  suprt. The project would finance: (a) the preparation of 13 textbook manuscripts,
six teachers' guide manuscripts, and nine manuscripts in national languages; (b) printing and
publishing of about 976,000 textbooks, 18,000 teacherse guides, and 75,000 textbooks in national
languages. Of the total number of textbooks, Norway will finance editing and printing of about
18,000 new mathematics and national language teachers' guides; (c) the reprinting of 1.2 million
mathematics workbooks, 610,000 textbooks, and 12,000 teachers' guides will also be financed by
Norway; (d) costs of delivering the books to the schools; (e) 11,100 lockers; (f) workshops for
teacher triing for better use of the books; and (g) three months of specialist services to assist
INDRAP in the preparation of bidding documents and training in-situ INDRAP staff in manuscript
and tetbook evaluation and quality control. Primary school materia and supplies would be totly
ficed by the Government through the annual budget (US$5.6 million). As a conditio  of
Mngoiations, the Government submitted a work program, satisfwctory to IDA, for the ftrst year of
the textbook component. At negotiations, the Government gave aMrances that it would: (a) by July
1995, complete an audit of INDRAP and agree with IDA on a time-bound redeployment of the staff
no longer needed; and (b) in the event of delays in providing new textbooks to students by July 31,
1997, procure textbooks from the international market. Details of project financing are in Annex 13.
(e)    Supnortng a Government/UNICEF-run Micronutripts Proam  fUS$03
miln}
3.41   Objecives. This sub-component would support part of the 1995/1999 Govermment program
designed to improve the health and nutritional status of all children aged 1-12 by reducing nutritional
deficiencies and the parasite load of 165,000 primary school students in the Departments of Maradi
and Dosso (about one-third of the total primary school enrollment in 1993). It would be introduced



-23-
on a trial bass up to mid-tem project review to assess manageability and project impact. Provided
the evaluatlon's results are positive, the micromrient program would be expanded to the rest of the
country. To help provide Immediate help to students In need, each school would also be provided
with first-aid kits. In addition to the positive impact of the health status of the concerned children
it is expeted that this intervention wUl help improve school atendance and learig capacity of
pupis, thus reducing repetition and dropout
3.42  Imzlption. To achieve the above objective the project would cover, by 1996, 100% of the
needs of about 165,000 pupils for Vitamin A, iodine, iron, and deworming pills. The dosage and
periodiclty for distribution of capsues to school children would be as follows: (i) vitamin A: one
capsule of 200,000 IU every 6 months; (1i) iodine: 1 capsule of 200 mg every year; (iii) iron: one
tablet of 60 mg of iron and 0.25 mg of folic acid per day for 15 days, every six months (the 15-days
supply wil be given to each child every 6 monfts); and Qtv) deworming (against ascaris, pinworm,
and ankylostoma): 500 mg of mebendazole would be given to each child twice a year. Thus, only
two distributions a year would be organized within the schools.
-3.43  In order to enue the long-term sustainability of these actons, existing  uition education
messages would be adapted for teachers by the Ministy of Healt's Nutrition Division (MOHND)
and INDRAP, to be used by teachers to spread the messages among school children and the
cmmunity. About 800 teachers would be trained by MOHND staff along with 130 health personnel
in the distribution of microntrients, the delivery of proper dosages as well as in the hea_thnrition
messages related to micronutrlents and deworming, and monitoring of the program. Training would
last two days during the first project year, followed by a refresher course of one day per year. A
social mobilization campaign would be undertaken by health personnel to explain to community
leaders and school teachers what is going to be done through this project in the schools. The
ditribudon of capsules and deworming tablets would be accompanied by an information program to
educate the children and the population about the consequences of micronutrient deficiency and
ntestnal worms, and about how to avoid them. Outside this project, the Government/UNICEF
program conains actions to promote the availability and use of iodized salt.
3.44    1      _    a.   Given the comparative advantage of UNICEF in children
mntritional issues, the Government has proposed delegaig the overall management of this sub-
component to UNICEF, which would work closely with the Mimistry of Health and the MEN's
Directorate of Primary Education. Development and Implementation of this sub-component would
be based on the mtition strategy tested by the Government and UNICEF through their 1985/1992
progam which covered 125 villages and 24,000 children under five years of age. Drugs would be
procured through ICB and distributed, according to a plan for each department, under the
responsibility of the head of the medical district Within the schools, distribution would be carried
out by teachers. Some schools located in areas not covered by health iastructumes would also be
used as centers (after cla8s hours) for the delivery of micronutrient tablets to children who are not
in school. The Ministry of Health would monitor progress in the two concerned departments. Ihe
school inspectors would monitor school attendance to assess the impact of the program each year as
compared to the situation prior to the start of the project.
3.45    oect        .  The project would complement existing fimding for the Gover-
mentlUNICEP progam by financing: (a) procurement and distribution of Vitamin A, iodine, iron,
and deworming tablets to about 800 primary schools in Maradi and Dosso; (b) procurement and
distribution of 800 first-aid kits for primary schools; (c) development, printng, and distribution of
pedagogic tools; and (d) training of 800 teachers. As a condition of negodations, the Government



-24 -
submitted to IDA a draft contract with UNICEF for the management responsibility of this component.
As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would submit a signed contract with UNICEF,
satisfactory to IDA, Including a detailed implementation plan, and a monitoring and evaluation system
of the micronutrients component. A financial audit of the use of the resources of this sub-component
would be conducted in conjunction with the required annual audits of all project accounts. Details
of project financing are in Annex 13.
3.    Strengthening Sector Managerial and Planning Capadties (US$4.8 million)
3.46  To strengthen the Government's managerial and planing capacities, the project would: (a)
strengthen the management, planning, and monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Education (MEN);
(b) improve the efficiency of decentralized sector planning and management; and (c) help prepare a
development strategy for higher education.
(a)    Str&ngthening the Canacity of the MEN to Manage Resources. and Implement
and Evaluate Education Improvement Programn (ISS2.1 millionl.
3.47   Qkiectives, The objective of this component is to improve MEN's capacity to efficientiy
manage scarce educational resources and meet the SRP objectives by providing support for (i)
educational planning; (ii) private education; (iii) financial and personnel management; (IV) evaluation
of education improvement programs; and (v) education projects coordination.
3.48 Educational planning. The project would enhance DEP's ability to plan and monitor the
development of education in line with Niger's educational development needs and resource
constraints, especially in areas related to the project's reform program. DEP would: (a) ensure the
timely collection, analysis, and publication of educational statistics; (b) maintain a country-wide
school map; (c) develop guidelines for the departmental and regional units; (d) inform and train the
other directorates and the decentralized planning units in basic statistics and sectoraI policy analysis;
(e) prepare and update quarterly a "control panel* (Wbleau de bora) aimed at helping MEN to
monitor critical development in the sector to allow the early adoption of corrective measures; and (f)
conduct ad hoc surveys and studies (e.g., promotion of community and private education) to propose
viable options for addressing key sectoral issues and disseminate their findings within and outside the
MEN.
3.49 Private educaion. While there are no legal regulations preventing the development of private
education, further growth is hampered by factors such as difficulties in obtaining investment credit
for creation of private schools, lack of Government action to encourage private sector development
and community-based schools. The project would help the Government to: (a) conduct a survey to
assess the demand for private education, and if required to stimulate demand, review the desirability
of decreasing fees and increasing subsidies for the private sector, (b) develop measures to encourage
private banks to lend for the creation of private schools, (c) develop ways of encouraging local
organizations to take an increased role in the operation of private schools; and (d) develop ways to
encourage municipalities to create and operate their own schools.
3.50 Financial and personnel management. This project would continue the support provided
under the ongoing project which is assisting the MEN in: (a) the review of its budgeting and
administrative procedures; (b) the computerization of its records in the areas of personmel
management, budget preparation and control, scholarship allocation and monitoring, and examination
adminisaion; and (c) staff training. In addition, a study would be conducted to clarify MEN's



-25 -
responsibilities, job descriptions, and activities objectives would be to: (a) assess the impact of tfie
computerizaion of MEN; (b) propose measures to improve the administrative procedures Including
report forms, manual databases, and data collection sheets; and (c) assess ways of reduciug the
aIminstrave burden of MEN staff at the central and local level. Under its 1994/96 program, FAC
plans to assist the MEN in the development of a simple planning system that produces clear
procedures and opratdons plans.
3.51   Evaluation of educaton improvement prograM s. To improve the capacity of the MM  to
evaluate education programs, the project aims at establishig a pilot student assessment system.
Standardized tests in French, mathematics, and the social sciences would be administrated in grades
two, four, and six of a representative sample of schools in four departments. The results of this
diagnostic testing-along with other school characteristics-would be used to: (a) monitor performane
changes over time, among these schools; (O) identify problem areas In the curriculum; (c) identify
schools in the sample which need special assistance; and (d) evaluate the effectiveness of double-shift
and multigrade teaching and of other project investments. These evaluatios would, in turn, be
dissemated through workshops and the media-to teachers, teacher-trainers, supervisors,
administrators, and parents. I successful, this assessment system would be expanded throughout the
entire school system. In addition, MEN will conduct a study on the expeimental schools using
national languages (para 2.20). Ihe objective of the study would be to evaluate the relative
importance of the different factors contributing to the difference in student dropout and achievement
observed in exjerimental and traditional schools; and assess the possibility of etending lessons
leaned from the experimental schools to the entire primary education system.
3.52   Education projs cdinatio. As the project involves diverse institutions at the national
and regional levels-including NGOs, the private sector, and other donors-the existing Directorate
for Education Project Coordination (DPE) within the MEN would coordinate project implementatio
Ihe DPE has a good track record in coordining implemenation of the ongoing education project.
Its role would be to: (a) coordinate implementation of the various sub-components; (b) provide
professional advice and guidance to implementation services and agencies; (c) enr      inputs
provided by other donors contribute to the MEN's development objectives; and (d) monitor and
evaluate project outcomes. The DPE is currently staffed with personnel with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA. The DPE would obtain professional advice and support from local
and/or regional finms under service contracts, particularly in: (a) accounting; (b) contract
administrion; and (c) procurement documentation and prcesing.
3.53  Jmln me1ntWI& arangements. Given its comparative advantage as coordinator of MEN
activities, the secretary general of the MEN would be responsible for the overall supervision and
implementation of improved planning and management activities to be carried out by several central
units. The DEP would be responsible for conducting the study on private education. INDRAP
would entrust to ENS (in collaboration with an overseas institution with expertise in student
achievement assessment) the evaluation and testing program including the schools using national
languages. Ihe cooperating institution would assist in: (a) determining staffing, equipment,
organizational, and training needs; Ob) providing workshops and training on speciized topics; (c)
overseeing data analysis; (d) preparing plans for decision making as regards lessons learned as wenl
as the possibility of extended national languages use; and (e) prepare documentation for incorporation
of the lessons learned into national teacher training programs. As regards education project
coordination, the DPE would ensure overall coordination of project activities and serve as a liaison
between the Government and IDA.



-26-
3.54  Project support.he project would finance   1               : (a) twelve monts of
short-term specialist services (including nine for local speciist servlces) to assist DEP in conductng
the stdy on private and community education, developing a specil plan to boost primary education
enrollment, and training decentralized planning units' staff, (b) seven months of fellowships for DEP
staff in educational analysis development, taing as trainers in school mapping, econ cs in
education, and information systems; and (c) office equipment. Prior to negodatjogs the Govenment
transmitted to IDA terms of reference, acceptable to the IDA, for the study on the demand for private
education. At negotiations, the Government gave Lgjgta= that it would, by October 1995,
complete the study and agree with IDA on measures to be introduced to simulate private and
community education.
3.55   For financial and personnel management: (a) local trning for MEN staff in the personnel
and finance management field and for records comp t(b) three-month fellowships for four
MEN staff in education resource mawgement; (c) office equipment and vehicles for the DEPD,
DAAP, DBES, DPRI; (d) five mico-computers for the MIEN; (e) taining in the use of micro-
computers; and (t) incremental costs for related equipment and material.
3.56 For evaluation of education improvement progrWms: (a) three-month fellowships for key
technical personnel of the ENS Evaluation Unit; (b) 10 months of short-term specialist services with
the collaborafting institution; (c) local workcshops for inspectors and teachers; (d) pedagogic and office
equipment for the ENS Evaluation Unit; (e) printing and distribution of testing sheets; (f) one vehicle;
and (g) incremental recurrent costs for material and equipment. As a          -iof  of n2ggiMn, the
Government submitted the following documents: (a) a shortlist of i nally recognized
instiutions in the field of student evaluation and achievement testing; (b) a draft contract and terms
of reference for the collaborating twinning institution; and (c) terms of reference for the evaluation
of the experimental schools using national languages. At uegia, the Government gave
assurances that it would, by lWy 1995, complete the study on the experimental schools and discuss
and agree with IDA on a me-bound action plan. Signaure of the conract with the twinning
organization would be a ondition of        on the pilot student assessment system.
3.57   For educion proiects coordination: (a) 58 months of short-term specialist services (mcluding
28 months for local consultants) for audits, accounting assistance, procurement assistance and
preparation of pr-investment studies; (b) organization of project launch seminars, and project review
workshops at the national and regional levels; (c) two computers and two vehicles; (d) sub-regional
study visits, and overseas conferences, (e) field visits, (D) salaries for nationally recruited conracu
DPE staff; and (g) incremenal recurrent costs, including utilities and miscellaneous supplies. As a
condition of negotiatis, the Government submitted: (a) a shortlist of audit firms and draft contract
and terms of reference defining the audit responsibilities; and (b) tem  of reerence for the DPE
staff. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would operate the DPE under
terms of reference (mncluding stfig) acceptable to IDA and would not replace any staff without
IDA's prior consent. Detais of project financing are in Annex 13.
(b)   ImproIng the EMciency- of Decentralized Sector Planning and Mamement
(US$2.2 million}
3.58 Qbiectives. In order to ensure that the central and decentWalized levels of the education
management stucture effectively play their respective roles in a synergic manner, this sub-component
would reinforce the planning and management capacity of the school inspectorates at the departmental
level.



-27 -
3.59   D"crijn. The project would build on effort begun under the ongoing pwject and durig
preparation of the proposed project. To Improve the working environment of the school luspetorates
(of the 46 inspectorates 10 are in rented scllities and 10 In dilapidated facilities), the project would
construct 10 school inspectorates and rehabilitate 10 others. These 20 inspectorates are already
stffd  ad sites for new construction are available. To support the Goverme's proposed
decentrized system, the school inspectorates would be responsible for collecting and Inputting annual
education statistics to be used in the prepration of departmental education plans (and then national
plans) which would incude an updated school map, identification of classrooms needs, a statistical
and summry report of development over the past year, and an assessment of fiture needs. The
project would also provide local training in (a) statistics and school mapping (particularly on
improving data collection and analysis); and (b) appropriate personnel and resource managerial
techques. A Task Force consisting of representatives of central and local levels would prepare,
durn the first six months of implementation, concrete proposals for gadually delegafting more
responsibility to the school inspectorates, avoiding duplication and reducing delays. Outside this
project, FAC would support the preparation of deparmental and regional plans as weil as the start-up
of the school mapping program.
3.60   Tlementation aUmg==. The DEPI) would be responsible for overall supervision of
this sub-component The DEP would provide guidance and training to the decentralized planning
units. Each school inspectorate would be responsible for implementing this sub-component.
3.61   Poect       . The project would finance: (a) construction and equipment of 10 primary
education inspectorates: Arlit and Dosso arrondissemens, Tchirozerine, Bouza, Keita, Tchintabara-
den, Matamey, Tanout, Nguimi, and Tillabery communes; (b) rehablition and equipment of 10
school inspectorates: Maine Soroa, Diffa, Dakoro, Magaria, Dosso communes, Dogondoutchi,
Madoua, Agadez communes, and Tillabery; (c) loca tning workshops in school mapping, statistics,
and management for inspectorates staff; (d) calculators, school mapping materials, and sundry office
supplies for the decentralized planing units; and (e) incremental operating costs for equipment.
Details of project finmcing are in Ane 13.
(c)   Prpang a Deve1oMRnIR     St&eW  for Hlgj Educatioln (USSO5 million)
3.62   Objeciv. To address problems confronting the higher education system (paras 2.28 and
2.29), the project would help the Government prepare a development strategy for higher education.
The objectives of this sub-component are to build a national consensus among critical stakeholders
(teachers, students, the private sector, parents, unions, political parties, and the Govemment) on
specific reform measures to address the main weaknesses of the prese.it system.
3.63   ledptinn. The project would finance a sector study on institutional, organizaional,
pedagogical, and financal issues in higher education, to be used as a basis for a wide-ranging national
debate designed to develop a national consensus on the higher education reform plan. The study
would be carried out by a Nigerien team, assisted by foreign specialists, and would cover areas such
as: (i) planning, budgeing, and management capacities (ncluding student admission and repetition);
(ii) quality and relevance of education and research programs to labor market demands and national
development priorities; (ii) use of resources especially those devoted to student subsidies including
scholarships abroad; and (iv) overall organization and need for consolidation of the vadou
Istiions providing tiary education in Niger. The results of the study would be made avalable
t the public and deminatd largely through radio and TV broadcasts, and the written press.



-28 ^
.3.64 Following this dissemination campaign, the Government, at the highest level, would launch
a national debate among critical stakeholders on higher education. The purpose of this debat would
be to examine the findings and recommendations of the above study and agree on measures to be
taken to restore academic quality and relevance. Based on the results of the national dialogue, the
Government would prepare a development strategy for higher education. The strategy should evable
a shaft in focus away from the current crisis management to the main business of the University wbich
is to respond to customer/market demand, provide quality education that prepares students for a
competitive world environment, and to carry out rsearch that responds to the real needs in te
country. Depending on the extent to which the strategy resulting from the national debate is
acceptable to IDA, this proposed project could support, as a first step, a limited set of investments
designed to initiate the development of a reform plan that could be supported under a future IDA-
financed higher education project. It is anticipated that to be eligible for IDA support such a plan
would need to include up-front measures to reduce student subsidies, control admission and reetition,
and reatlocate to teaching and research activities a substantial part of the resources now devoted to
the provision of inefficient student support services.
3.65 Implementation arrangements. The rector of the University of Niamey, in close coordination
with the MEN's higher education directorate, would be responsible for overall supervision and
implementation of this sub-component. In accordance with the rector, the Government will nominate
a moderator who would be responsible for organizing the dissemination campaign and the national
dialogue. To develop stakeholder commitment, the ZOPP (Objective-oriented Project Planning and
System) would be used as a participatory tool.
3.66   MjM pport. The project would finance: (a) office rent and utilities for the moderator and
the technical team; (b) office equipment and one vehicle; (c) the dissemination campaign and the
national debate; (d) 4 months regional visits; (e) ten months of short-term foreign specialist services;
(f) 36 months of short terms local specialist services; (g) salaries of two local support staff; and (h)
incremental recurrent costs. Prior to nwg tiadons, the Government submitted to IDA tems of
reference for the sector study which were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations. Furthermore,
at negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would: (a) complete the sector study and
launch the national debate by January 1996; (b) adopt a set of recommendations resulting from the
national debate by October 31, 1996; and (c) initiate discussions with IDA about a time-bound reform
plan to implement these recommendations by December 31, 1996. Details of project financing are
in Annex 13.
B. Costs and Mlnancing, Credit Amount
3.67 Total project costs are estimated at US$76 million (net of taxes/duties), including US$20
million for the quick-disbursing component. The total project investment cost over the five years of
implementation is estimated, net of taxes, at US$56 million, with a base cost of US$48.6 million and
a foreign exchange component of US$38 million. Price contingencies, estimated at US$4.9 million
assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 36.7% and a foreign inflation rate of 3.5%; and physical
-contingencies are estimated at US$2.6 million or 6% of base costs. The project would be fianced
by IDA (US$41.4 million or 54.3%), Germany, through KfW (JS$10.2 million or 13.4%), Norway
(US$4.8 milion or 6.4%), support in-kind from local communities for school construction (US$0.2
million or 0.3%), and the Government of Niger (US$19.4 million or 25.6%).
3.68 Of IDA' US$41.4 million contribution, US$17.2 million would be used in support of the
quick-disbursing component and US$24.2 million to finance invesments designed to: (i) construct



-29-
and equip 290 classrooms, and rehabilitate and equip 1,500 classrooms (US$9.2 million); (ii) promote
girls' education (UJS$1.1 million); (lii) improve the quality of teacher training (US$4.9 million); (iv)
provide about 980,000 new primary school textbooks, and 75,000 textbooks in national languages
(US$3.8 milion); (v) support Government/UNICEF mictonutrient programs (US$0.4 milion); (vi)
strenghen the management capacity of the Ministry of Education (US$2.1 milion); (vii) improve
decntralized sector planning (US$2.2 million); and (vii) prepare a development strategy for higher
education (US$0.5 mlllon).
3.69  lhe total contribution of g_rmrWy (US$10.2 million) would be in support of the constucion
and equipment of 880 primary school classrooms (US$8.2 million) and the rehabiitadon and
equipment of the four TICs (US$2 million). 'Me N gnn   contribution of US$4.8 million would
be split between the quick-disbursing component (US$2.8 million), and investments to finance
reprintg of 610,000 primary school textbooks, one million mathematics workbooks, and 12,000
teachers' guides; and editing and printing of 18,0000 new teachers' guides (US$2.0 million).
Government's contrion of US$19.4 million would finance: (a) construction and equipment of 600
classoms (US$6 million); (b) salaries for 2,600 civil servant-teachers who would staff the new
classrooms to be constructed under the project (US$7.8 million); and (c) pedagogical materials and
school supplies for primary school students (US$5.6 million). ]e comnmunitie' contribution would
be US$0.2 million to finance part of the construction programn.
C. Impact of the Proposed Project
3.70   More efficient use of oNic re rces. By itself, the SRP would generate direct and Indirect
budgetary cost savings in the education sector averaging about CFAF 3.2 billion a year. In other
words, if the quantitatve and qualitative results to be achieved under the program supported through
tibs project were to be achieved without implementation of tLhe SRP, the education budget would have
to be increased by about CFAF 3.2 billion annually. Ibis estimate is likely to considerably
understate the cost-saving effects of the project as it excludes difficult quantitative savings occuring
fiom facs such as reduced repetition and dropout-due to improved education quality, and more
efficient resource use-resulting from better sector management. Furthermore, the impact of many
of the project's policy and investment interventions will, to a great extent, be felt after project
completion.
3.71  Increased rsuc          tod to neducation. Most of the additional costs implied by
reaching the 35% enrollment target in 1999 can be financed through the direct savings generated by
scholarship budget' containment promoted under the SRP (para 3.14). Assuming that salary scales
do not change, atainment of the 35% target implies the need for an additional CFAF 4.6 billion over
the five-year project period to finance the salaries of 520 new teachers each year, totalling 2,600 by
1999. The estimates of the additional teachers' salaries for each year from 1995 to 1999 are
respectively: CFAF 310 million; CFAF 621 million; CFAF 931 million; CFAF 1.241 billion; CFAF
1.552 billion. In addition, the Government's material budget for primary education would annually
increase from the current level of CFAF 360 million to CFAF 760 million in 1999 (by annual
increments of CFAP 80 million). As regards classroom construction, the Government public
investment budget would provide CFAF 600 million annually. Tne total public expenditr increase
(mcluding classrooms construction) would amount, over the five year period, to CFA.? 8.8 billionL
Assuming a conuation of the measures supported by the project, the direct budgetary cost savings
derived from the reduction in scholarships (CFAF 7.8 billion) could cover almost 90% of the total
public expenditures increase. All the other indirect savings generated by the SRP would permit



-30-
iplementig actions such as increasing teacher output and improving the equality of teacher trnng
wiihout generating additional costs.
3.72   EMic   .   To the above purely financial and budgetar) impacts must be added the
project's8 dfects on the economy. Although difficult to quify, and often felt oly after project
completion, these benefits are expected to be substantil. Te include positive effects on laor
productivity and measures to improve the quality and relevance of education programs. Ibe project
will also promote more efficient economic management at the central and local levels through
improved training for civil servants. More generally, studies in developing countries consistendy find
high social rates of return to investment in primary education (estimated at about 15% in Niger).
Finally, reform measurws promoted through this project would reinforce the economic effects of those
found in Niger's overall Adjustment Program.
3.73  Socin1imgal  . Three positive social effcts are particularly noteworthy. First, the project
would help mainain an adequate level of investment in the education sector during the current period
of increased financial stringency. Considering the limited access to basic education in Niger, this is
an important contribution towards improving conditions in this key social sector. Second, by
reorienting public education spending toward primary education, the project would help redistribute
benefits generated by such spending in favor of less well-off social groups. Presently, education
spending is inequitably distributed: while about 1% of an age cohort receives at least some higher
education and consumes 27% of public education spending, 92% of the cohort obtain, at most,
primary education (including 71% that receive no education), benefitting from 45% of public
education spending. In 1999, 90% of the cohort would receive, at best, primary education (including
65% receiving no education) and would benefit from about 53% of education expenditures.
Furthermore, the project would help distribute the benefits from education more equitably: (a) the
share of girls in prma  enrollment would increase from 36% to 40%, thereby reinforcing its
positive effects on aspects such as fertility and mortality, and on family welfare (e.g., children's
ducation, health and nutrition); and (b) 84% of the classrooms would be constructed mostly in rural
areas. Third, in addition to supporting education deve1 ;ment, the project supports the social
dimension of Niger's Adjustment Program by: (i) providing primary school students with sufficient
textbooks and school materials to be loaned free of charge; (ii) improving the nutrition status of about
165,000 students through provision of micronutrients and deworming tablets to schools; and (lii)
promoting income-generating activities through support for low-cost, labor-intensive school
construction (about 13 man-months per classroom).
PART IV. PROJECT ILEMENTlATION
A. Project Readiness, Implemetaton Responsibiiities and Monitoring
4.1   Readines. The measures included in the SRP have been largely identified and prepared by
the Government, which has confirmed its commitment to these education sector reforms in its Letter
of Education Sector Development Policy (Annex 8). Several measures have been implemented
upfront (Para 2.10). Most measures included in the SRP have been internalized by key stakeholders
through national and regional workshops organized by the Government. Imiplemenaion plans and
schedules have been prepared for each element of the investment component. Sites for the
construction of the inspectorates have been identified and are available. The project would largely
continue activities launched under the ongoing project. Final site selection for the annual school
constuction program would be reviewed by IDA each year. Furniture, pedagogical materials, and



-31-
equipment requirements have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. The distribution of
micronutrients has been developed and tested by the Government wlth UNICEF's assistance wih
positive results.
4.2   Implementation gesponsibilites and mgntorinf. Each project element woud be implemeuted
by the Government service normally concerned by that element. The Directorate In the Ministry of
Education responsible for coordination of donors fhanced projects (DPE) would support project
execution in the way described in para 3.52. Implementation of the SRP would be monitored by the
Inte isterial Technical Committee, established by the Government to supervise development
programs In all sectors. The committee is comprised of directots fom the Minitries of Finance,
Education, Civil Service, and Plan. The Director of MEN's planning unit (DEP) would support this
committee by monitoring, on a daily basis, the implementation of the SRP, and preparing
background material for the Interministerial Technical Committee and for the joint second tranche
release review. To further develop stakeholder commitment, the ZOPP would be used as a tool for
the project launch workshop, to monitor project implementtion, and to assess the progress of the
Government's education development program during annual and mid-term reviews. At mgn2da
the Government gave assurm that it would: (a) maintain, throughout the life of the project, the
six policy measures described in the SRP; (b) transmit to IDA progress reports on project
implementation and outcomes twice a year (n April and October), using the satisfactory format
developed in the ongoing education project; (c) organize, no later than November 30 of each year,
strting in 1994, a joint IDA/Government review of project implementation including the SRP, based
on the progress reports, annual work programs, and budget for the next academic year to be
examined in the context of the Public Expenditure Review; and (d) carry out a mid-term rview of
project implementation-including financial and technical audits-jointly with IDA (and to the extent
possible, with KfW, and the French Cooperation) no later than May 1997. Based on this review, the
MEN would update the implementation plan for continued project execution.  Progress In
implementing the SRP would be monitored in accordance with the indicators annexed to the Letter
of Education Sector Development Policy. Details of IDA's supervision plan and of the elements of
the annual and mid-term reviews are provided in &nne14. Within six months of the Credit closing
date, the Goverment would also transmit to IDA a completion report, prepared in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Annex 6 contains the annual monitoring indicators. The
implementation plan is in Annex 7.
B. Procurement
4.3   Procurement. Table 1 below summarizes the project elements by category, estimated costs,
and proposed procurement methods. No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified
in Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Niger's procurement practices
allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
Procurement schedules and the packaging of works and goods are given in Ann 15.



- 32 -
TABLE t: SUM0ARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRAGEMUTS
(USS million equivalent inctuding Contingencies)
PROCUREMENT NETNCS fOR IDA FINANCING
PROJECT ELENENTS                                     ICs       LCB      OTHER     N.B.F.       TOTAL COST
1. CIVIL UORKS
1.1  Civil Works Contracts                                 4.6                 7.5   %a  12.1
(Parts B and C)                                   -       (4.6)       -        ( -)      (4.6)
1.2  Grants for School Construction               -         -        2.4                  2.4
(Part B only)                                     -         -       (2.2)                (2.2)
1.2  Inported Construction Materials              -         -         -        5.1    e   5.1
(Part 8 only)                                          -              -        '-)        '  '
2. GO00S
2.1  Furniture                                    -        3.8        -        3.4  %a  7.2
*       (3.8)       -         --)      (3.8)
2.2 Office Equipment & Supplies                   -        0.3       0.1                  0.4
-  -    (0.3)    -(0.1)                (0.4)
2.3 Vehicles & Notorcyeles                       1.8        -        0.1        -         1.9
(1.8)       -       (0.13       -        (1.9)
2.4  Textbooks                                   3.8                           2.0   \b  5.8
(3.8)                 -        (--)      (3.8)
2.5  Pedagogical Materials                       1.1        *                  5.8  \c  6.9
(1.1)       -                            M I)) (1.1)
2.6. Micro-Nutrients                             0.3        -         -                   0.3
(0.3)       -                   -        (0.3)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1  DesignfSupervision/Nanagement                -                  0.2        -         0.2
(0.2)                (0.2)
3 2  Specialist Services (International)          -         -        1.2        -         1.2
-         -       (1.2)                (1.2)
3.3  Specialist Services (Local)                  -         -        0.4                  0.4
-                5 (0.4)     -        (0.4)
4. TRAINING
4.1  Fellowship abroad                                      -        0.3                  o 0.3
(0.3)                (0.3)
4.1  Local Training                               -         -        1.5        -         1.5
-    -       (t.~S)      -         1.)
5. Funds for girls' education                         -         -        0.3        -         0.3
-         .       (0.3)       -        (0.3)
6. Direct Imports (Quick Disbursing)                 17.2  \d   -                  2.8   Xe  20.0
(17.2)      -         -        C--)      (17.2)
7. MISCELLAMEOUS
7.1  Operation & Maintenance                      -         -        1.2        -         1.2
.    .       (1~~.2)     -         1.2).
7.2 Overtime for double-shift teaching            -         -        0.6        -         0.6
(0.6)       -        (0.6)
7.3  mon eivil servants contracts                 -                  0.2                  0.2
-   -   (0.2)       -        (0.2)
7.4  Teachers salaries                            -         -                  7.8   Vf  7.8
-              -        (..)       (..)
7.5  Travel Allowance                             -         -        0.06       -         0.06
-         -       (0.06)      *        (0.06)
Totat Costs                      24.3       8.7       8.6       34.4       76.0
Total Financed by the IDA credit          (24.3)   (8.7)    (8.4)         C--)      (41.4)
--8-                                - -ssu
Note :   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IOA credit.
' N.8.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
*  The foltowing capital letters show the project components:
Part A: Structural Reform Program
Part 8: Ilproving Access and Quality of primary Education
Part C: Management of the Education System
* Ca): Coverment & KfVl; (b): Norway; Cc) Govermnt;
* Cd): ICB for contracts above US$1 million; (e) Norway; Cf) Goverrmnt.
Figures my not add up due to rounjing



-33 -
4.4 Civil workl. The proposed civil works program (totaling US$19.7 million, net of taxes and
duties and including contingencies) includes: (a) rehabilitation of four teacher taining colleges (ITCs)
(US$1.7 million) and inspectorates (US$1.2 million); and (b) construction of about 1,770 new
classrooms and rehabilitation of 1,500 classrooms and related facilities such as storage, principals
offices, latrines, and enclosures (US$16.8 million). Of the civil works of t he Project, the IDA credit
would finance (a) the construction costs of the rehabilitation of 1,500 classrooms; (b) the constuction
cost of 290 new classrooms (US$5.8 million) to which communities would contribute, on a parallel
basis, in cash or in-kind the equivalent of 10% of project funding; and (c) the construction of
inspeorates (US$1.2 million). The Government would finance the construction costs of 600 new
classrooms during the project implementation period. KYW's contribution would finance part of the
remainder (880 new classrooms).
4.5    Civil works contat finmced by IDA for the construction of inspectorates in or regions
(US$1.2 million) which would not attract foreign bidders would be awarded through Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. The rehabilitation of
four ATCs (totaling US$1.7 million) financed by KfW would be awarded in accordance with
Gidelinesfor Procurement wnder IW financing.
4.6    Classroom constr[ctiln and rehabfilatio. Classroom construction management would be
caried out, as for the second education project, by BIES operating under the supervision of the DPE
and acting on behaf of the Government for managing and contracting all necessary activities related
to construction (e.g., studies, supervision, reportng), and handling procurement in accordance with
areed upon procedures to the satisfaction of IDA and the Government. The BIBS wiUl be tansferred
from the Directorate of Education Planning to the DPE before credit effectiveness. The project
would finance BIES incremenal operating costs to ensure It operates to the satisfaction of IDA and
the Goverment. Civil works contracts would be awarded based on procedures described in an
implementation manual for classroom construction agreed upon with the Government during
MgWations. BIES would maintain a roster of qualified, registered artisans in the project areas, and
would permit additional applications at any time. Civil work contracts financed by IDA which would
not exceed US$500,000 each would be awarded through LCB up to a maximum of US$4.6 million-
which does not preclude large or foreign firms from participating-in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Standard bidding documents would propose a reference price and indicate unit
prices and quantities. Contractors would be invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total or
on the unit prices. Kits of standard imported construction materials (metal shvs, doors, windows,
and paint) would be procured in abulk by the BIES and made available from the supplier warehouse
to the contractors-being responsible for the purchase of other locally available construction materials
(cement, sand, gravel, wood, etc.). Primary school rehabilitation would follow the same approach
with the exception that all necessary construction materials would be direcdy purchased by the
contractor. It is expected that classroom construction financed by KfW would use the above-
mentioned approach in accdance with Guidelhesjfor Procrement wder ICWflnanclng.
4.7    Contracts would make provisions for the mandatory approval by BIES of sub-contactors;
to the etent possible, these sub-contactors would be requested to be registered as described above.
Contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid, provided the bidder's technical and financial
strength meet the minium qualification requirements of the bidding documents. The contract award
committee of BIES would open bids in public. It would justify in writing, and prior to signing the
contract and with reference to the bidding documents' critera, any decision not to select the lowest
evaluated bid. For contracts with fewer than five bidders, greater than or equal to US$250,000



-34-
equivalent, or for rejeton of the lowest bid, the DPE would request IDA approval prior to signing
the contract.
4.8    Another approach which has proven effective in other Sahelian countries woud be intrduced
on a trial basis under IDA financing. It is expected to cover up to 25% of the construction program
at the end of the project; it would consist of makdng eligible local communities or Parens
Associations responsible for the construction; they would directly contra  building materials and
labor sevces by using commercial practices. Th. project would sign a contract with these
communities or Parent Associations and provide them with a grant not exceeding 90% of the
estimated construction cost. Contracts would be awarded up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$2.2 million. The cost per classroom (estimated at US$10,000) would be determined each year
on the basis of unit costs and quantities, and agreed upon with IDA. The grat would be paid to
communities on a tranche basis, provided works have been delivered in accordance with qutiy and
quality agreed upon with BIES. Where necessary, particularly In remote areas, NGOs would assist
communities or Parent Associations and would act on their behalf if needed.
4.9    G      Goods fiaced by IDA (US$10.7 million) include furniture, equipment, office
supplies, vehicles, pedagogical merials, and micronutrients. Goods (except for school fitue  and
equipment/office supplies) would be grouped into packages of at least US$250,000 ec and procured
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidellnesjfr Prohum nt wdr IRD Loans and iDA
Crets (May 1992). Standard bidding and contract documens developed by the Bank would be used.
A preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the CIF prices
of competing goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestic firms. Equipment and office
supplies that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$250,000 million would be procured
through LCB up to US$4.1 million. Since foreign bidders are unlikely to be intested in school
fuiure (because purchases of furniture would be phased in over a five-year period) and local firms
can produce below international market prices, primary school furnitu finaced by the Credit
(JS$3.8 million), although phased in time, would be procured through LCB in accordance with
procedures acceptable to MDA. Tok purchasing (US$5.8 million) would be finmced by IDA and
Norway and procured through ICB. Bids wold be evaluated, in a first stage, for their technial and
pedagogical qualities. Prices of bidders meetng minimum technical and pedagogical requiements
would be requested and evaluated in a second stage. Procurement of small iems for the girls'
education program, totaling US$0.3 million-which are not expected to exceed US$10,000 per item-
and items like office supplies and spare parts which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped
into bid packages of at least US$30,000, will be done on the basis of local shopping, based upon
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount
of such procurement does tot exceed US$200,000.
4.10  Consultat       . There is no long-term technical assistance in the project. Inteional
and local consultamt services financed by IDA (US$1.8 million equivalent) would be contracted in
accordan  with the Bank's Guidelnesfor he Use of Consuants (August 1981). The staad form
of contract for appointment of consultants as developed by the Bank wiU be used for contracts with
firms for the most complex assigmnents. Simplified contracts would be used for short term
assignments-not exceeding six months-cared out by individual consultants. The services include
traiinig abroad, technical assistance, architectural sevices for the design and supervision of the
construction program, as well as specialist services in the area of pwr ement, auditing, account,
project management, and project preparation. BIES would recruit three addiional technicians with
skllls and expience acceptable to IDA and the Government, selected from a shortlist in accordanc
with Ihe Bank's Genesfor the Use of ConDIant (August 1981).



-35 -
4.11   ProcuLement under the Sectora Refd=  Progm (SRP. The quick-disbursing element
(totaling US$20 milion) of which US$17.2 million would be finced by IDA, would be released
in two tranches of US$10.0 million each. It would finance the CIF price of public and private sector
imports (no limitation is placed on petroleum or food imports), cuJding goods: (i) classified on a
negative list of imports, specified in the Credit Agreement, including military equipment, dangerous
drugs, and luxury goods; (ii) purchased on the local market; CMii) already financed under bilateral or
multilateral grants/credits; (iv) imported under single source purchases unless they qualify for
proprietary or tandardizon reasons; and (v) imported under contracts costing less than US$5,000
equivalent each. Direct imports by the Government would require ICB procedures for contracts
above US$2.0 million. For contracts below that amount, the Government would follow standard
public procurement practices previously found acceptable to IDA, provided the contracts make
provision for the CIF price in foreign currency. Private sector imports would be subject to simplified
ICB procedures for contracts above US$2.0 million equivalent and for lower amounts would follow
established commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations would be sought from at least
two countries. Verification of imports would include both pre-shipment inspection by a specialized
firm, and inspection upon arrival by customs services to verify the quantity, quality, and price (with
exception for ICB) of goods fianced by the IDA credit. If any particular disbursement request were
rejected due either to ineligibility or unacceptable procurement procedures, the borrower would be
allowed to substiute it with other eligible and acceptable procurement. The Credit Agreement would
modify the standard procurement procedures for ICB set out for the investment program by including
simplification of the bid invitation procedure. Disbursement requests would be lumped in packages
of at least US$1.0 million equivalent.
4.12 Rehview bv IDA. During project supervision, conaracts (except for the quick-disbursing
element) financed or administered by IDA for works and goods above a threshold of US$250,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Ihe prior review process would cover
about 81% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods (100% for ICB and about 50 % for
LCB) and 43% of the total value of the amount contcted for works. Selective post-review of
awarded contracts for goods and works below the threshold levels would apply to about one in three
contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for LCB would be reviewed by and agreed upon with
IDA during negotatons. For the procurement of services, the prior review threshold would be
US$100,000equivalentper contractfor firms, and US$50,000 equivalent per conttactfor individuals.
However, prior review would continue to be required for: (i) all consultants cons  above
US$100,000 equivalentper contractfor fhms, and US$50,0O0 equivalentper contract for individuals;
(i) terms of reference (regardless of value); (ii) all single-source contracts (regardless of value); (iv)
contract amendments valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for firms, and
US$50,000 equivalent per contract for individuals or those that raise the total contract value above
US$100,000 equivalentper contact for firms, and US$50,000 equivalentper contrauc for individuals;
and (v) all consultants contracts for assignments of a critical nature, regardless of value. For
individual consultants, IDA would only request a review of the terms of reference, the consultant's
qualifications and the draft contact. For local t   and overseas fellowships, IDA would require
to review annal training programs.
4.13   lAring negotiation, agrement were reached on the proper monitoring of the procurement,
as well as the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, and standard procurement
documents for LCB to be developed, reviewed by, and agreed upon with IDA. Prior to nggt i1
the Government submitted to IDA for review: (a) an updated procurement plan; (b) a procedural
manual for management and procurement; (c) draft bidding document for the construcdon program
and major equipment, as well as draft letters of invitation for consultants services, financed by IDA.



-36 -
Contsac financed under parallel cofinancing arrangements would be awarded in accordance with the
cofincler's procurement regulations. The Government gave assurance at negotiadons that it would
apply the procurement procedures and arrangements oudined above.
C. Disbursements
4.14  The qn kisburslng element would be disbursed in two tranches designed to support the
Implementation of the SRP. The first trache would be disbursed upon credit effectivenes and would
account for US$10 million, Including the USS7.2 million financed by IDA. and US$2.8 million
ftanced by Nor. The second tranche would account for S$0 millionanced b IA and
would be available for disbursement upon completion of the reforms summarized in the Government's
Letter of Education Sector Development Policy (Annex 8). Disbursement would be fully documented
except for contracts costing less than US$500,000 which would be made against statement of
expenditures.
4.15  The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period; IDA's invesment cdi
would be disbursed over 6 years (according to the categories shown in Table 2 below; Niger's
standard disbursement profie is seven years). Disbursement of the Credit would be fiuly documented
except for contracts and expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made
against Statemens of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained at the DPE for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiannual audits. To facilitate
disbursement, the Government would open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover
IDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the DPE. The initial allocation for the SA would
be CFAF 150 million-corresponding to authorized disbursement needs over a threemonth period.
Upon fErxmi, the Borrower would submit to IDA a withdrawal application for an initial deposit
to the SA. Subsequent replenishment requests to the SA would be submitted to IDA on a monthly
basis, and accompanied by up-to-date bank and reconciliation stame_n of the SA. The  ini
threshold for withdrawal applications for direct payment and reimbursement or for a special
commitment should be above US$20,000 equivalent.
Tabl 2 - Allocaton and Dsburemen of the IDA Cedit
CategoV of Expendiure     Proposed IDA Allocations          % of Expditur
(US$ Milion)           FPina      by IDA
1.    Civil Word                             6.S                 1t0
2.    Furniture, Equipment, and Vehicles     6.0                  100
3.    M      ie                              0.3                  0oo
4.    Peagogic Materials and Textbooks       4.8                  100
S.    Training                               1.7                  100
6.    C'nslnt Services                       1.6                  100
7.    Gids Funds                             0.3                  100
8.    Educainlovem    Prams                  0.2                  100
9.    Im           Rent Coats                1.8                  100
10.   Goods Impored During Excution of
the Program                           17.2                  100 of foreign
etpenditures
11.   Unallocated                            IQ
TOTAL                                       41.4



-37 -
D. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.16 The DPE would be responsible for the project's financial management and would maintain
consolidated project accounts following the system established under the ongoing education project
(Cr.1740-NIR) which is functioning satisfactorily. Project accounts, including the SA, would be
audited annually (following international auditing stdards) by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; all disbursements under SOEs and the quick-disbursing element would be audited semiannualy.
The annual audit report would be submitted to IlDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year;
the semiannul audit reports would be submitted to IDA within three months of each period. During
negotlatins the Government provided a shortlist of independent auditors, and a draft letter of
invitation including the related draft contract and terms of reference. The Government gave
assurane during negotiations that it would submit to lIDA audit reports of reasonable scope and
detail within: (i) six months of the end of each fiscal year in the case of the annual audit report; and
(i) three months of the end of each semester in the case of the SOEs. The appointment of an
independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA would be a condiion of credit
ceness.
PART V. PROJECT BEFTS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits and Risks
5.1   The main benefits are: Ekigs, the project contains a program of targeted interventions, which
would help protect vulnerable groups during the current period of severe budgetary constraints by
(a) reallocating public expenditures in favor of primary education; (b) locating 84% of the classrooms
constructed in rural areas; (c) reducing micronutrient deficiencies of about 165,000 primary students;
and (d) promoting income-generafing activities through support for low-cost, labor-ensive school
construction which would create on average 650 jobs every year. Secn, implementation of the
overall education program supported by this project would provide the enrollment capacity for
approxmatey 183,000 (or 45%) additional pupils by 1999, and the share of girls in primary
enrollment would increase from 36% to 40%. 3nird, the project would help improve the quality and
relevance of primary education by making textb;oks and teaching materials In key subjects available
to all students, and by improving teachers' training and the quality of school buildings. Foi, the
project would reinforce Niger's overall effort as regards: (a) more efficient use of public resources
thugh improved management of the education sector, and making the system more responsive to
local needs; and (b) promotion of higher returns on public investments by giving increased priority
to primary education, where the social rate of return to education investments is highest.
5.2   The main risks are: (a) the Government's ability to implement -sensitive reform measures
affecting, in particular, secondary and higher education students Oimitation of scholarships) and
teachers (onger work hours through double-shift teaching); and (b) the weak capacity of sector
institutions to implement the program. The former risk is mitigated by the fact that the reform
measures, which met considerable resistance from students and the teachers' union when initiated
during project preparation in 1988/89, have matured and are now well internalized by ministryaff
and the teachers union. In addition, implementation of most measures is well advanced under the
ongoing Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1740-NIR) and through preparation of the
proposed project. Resources provided under the proposed project will further facilitate thei
implementation. The second risk is minimized through project support to strengthen the planning and
managerial capacities of the education secor and, in particular, the capacity to monitor implementa-
don of the policy measures. Risks are firther mitigated by IDA's well-developed policy dialogue
wifth Niger in the education sector, by the close integration of the education sector dialogue in the



-38-
overall macro dialogue; and by special supervision efforts planned during the early stages of project
implementation. This is a Category C project. No environmental risks are foreseen. Constructon
would respect national environmental laws. Schools would be built on Goverrment land wkih
approved Bank standards. Most of the classrooms would be associated with eatisting schools. There
would be ro displacement of people. Inclusion of environmental education in traiing programs
would ha'e a positive environmental impact.
PART YI. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECQMEDATION
A. Sectoral Reform Program (Quick-disbursing Element)
6.1    The following actions have already been taken by the Government under the proposed
ptogram:
(a)    Selection of first grade students for primary education in July of each year, instead
of in October (para 2.10);
(b)    Two hundred seven double-shift teaching classrooms opened in urban areas in
October 1993 %para 2.10);
(c)    The 15% surplus of general secondary teachers was reduced (para 2.10);
(d)    One hundred primary teachers redeployed to the classrooms (para 2.10); and
(e)    The automatic recruitment of all higher education graduates in the civil service was
abo!ished (par 2.10).
6.2 As conditionsW for first tranche releasefcredit effectiveness, in addition to the standard tranche
release condition regarding the Goverment's macroeconomic policy framework, the Goverment
would:
(a)    Make budgetary allowance for, and recruit at least 520 additional primary school
teachers for the 1994/95 school year, and (ii) admit at least 720 teacher trainees into
TICs for the 1994/95 school year (parm 3.4);
(b)   Introduce double-shift classes in at least 440 primary school classes for the 1994/95
school year (para 3.6);
(c)   (i) Redeploy 32 ITC teachers to lycdes by effectiveness, and (ii) recruit teacher
trainees into TTCs on the basis of 85% INAs and 15% INs for the 1994f95 school
year (para 3.8);
(d)   Issue the appropriate legal instrument transforming the Faculty of Pedagogy at the
University of Niamey into an ENS with a program acceptable to IDA (para 3.10);
and
(e)    Reduce the higher education scholarship budget to CPAF 4.8 billion in 1994, nd
mantain spending for secondary student subsidies at CFAF 1.6 billion in 1994 (pars
3.14).



-39-
6.3    As gndifor snd tranghe Lr    easg, In addition to compliance with the stadard trnhe
reeae onitios   regading: 0) satisfactory progress In the Implementation of the Progm, and (O)
Government's macroeconomic policy famework, the Government would:
(a)    Make budgetary atlowance for, and recruit a least 520 additional pdmary school
teachers for the 1995196 school year; (i) admit at least 720 addiional teacher
tanees into TMCs for the 1995/96 school year; tii) constuct 120 prdmay school
classrooms during the 1994195 school year; and (lv) adopt the 1995 recren
expenditures budget, and the 1995/97 rolling tree-year public investmet program
for education, acceptable to the IDA (para 3.4);
(b)    Open about 670 double-shift classes during the 1995/96 school year (par 3.6);
(c)   Transmit to IDA proof of recruitment into ITCs of teacher tainees on a basis of
85% INAs and 15% INs for the 1995196 schwol year (para 3.8);
(d)   lssue no new admission of teacher ainees to seconday teacher programs other tha
those of the Ecole Nomiale beginning In the 1995/96 school year (para 3.10);
(e)    Transmit to IDA proof of (i) cancellation of 76 secondar sdhool teacher contracts,
and (ii) provision of about 24 secondary school teachers to private schools (para
3.12); and
(t)    Reduce the higher education scholarship spending to CFAF 4.6 billion in 1995, and
mintaining spendn for secondary student subs lies at CFAF 1.6 billion in 1995
(para 3.14).
3. Invstment
6.4 As condW for ngoations, the Government transmitted to IDA the folowing docum
which were reviewed and finalized during negotiations:
(a)    Draft Letter of Education Sector Development Policy confirming its inttion to
implement the overdl reform and investment program supported by this project in
accordance with a set of monitorable timebound indicators annexed to the letter (ptar
3.15);
(b)    Prposed first year program for: (I) the construction program (pa  3.23), (I) in-
sevice taing activities (par 3.36), and C  the textbo k component (par 3.40);
(c)    Dft terms of reference for the following: (i) IEC campaiga for promoting gids'
educaion (para 3.28), CiH) a study on the demand for private education (para 3.54),
(iii) the DPE staff (para 3.57), Civ) a higher education sector study which would be
discussed and agreed upon at negotiations (pam 3.66);
(d)   Draft conact with UNICEF for the management responsibility of the mlcroients
omponent (para 3.45);



-40-
(e)    Shortlist of internationally recognized institutions in the field of student evaluation
and achievement testing, a draft contract and terms of reference defining a proposed
twinning arrangement between die MEN and such an institution, and draft terms of
reference for the evaluation of the experimental sdols using national lngug
(para 3.56);
(t)    A shortlist of audit fims and draft contract and terms of reference defining the audit
responsibilities (para 3.57); and
Og)   (i) an updated procurement plan; (ii) a procedural manual for management and
procurement; (iii) draft bidding documents for the construction program and major
equipment, as well as draft letters of invitation for consultants services, financed by
IDA or administered by IDA (para 4.13);
6.5    During negotiations, the Government gave  iurances that it will:
(a) (i) Establish the CPSF by October 1994, with terms of reference and staffing
acceptable to IDA; (ii) review with IDA the recommendations of the study on
economic and demand factors causing gender bias in education by December 31,
1994, and agree with IDA on a time-bound action program (para 3.28); and (iii) in
the event of delays in providing new textbooks by July 31, 1997, procure textbooks
from the international market (para 3.40);
b)   Complete the following studies: (i) audit of INDRAP by July 1995, and agree with
IDA on a time-bound redeployment plan of staff no longer needed (para 3.40); (ii)
on private education by October 1995, and agree with IDA on measures to introduce
to stimulate such education (para 3.54); and (1ii) on experimental classes using
natonl languages by July 1995, and discuss and agree with IDA on a time-bound
action plan (para 3.56);
(c)    Operate the DPE under terms of reference (including staffmg) acceptable to IDA and
not replace any staff without IDA's prior consent (para 3.57);
(d)   (i) Complete the higher education sector study and launch the national debate by
January 1996; (ii) adopt a set of recommendations resulting from the national debate
by October 31, 1996; and (iii) initiate with IlDA discussions about a time-bound
reform plan to implement these recommendations by December 31, 1996 (para 3.66);
(e)   (J) Maitan throughout the life of the project, the six policy measures described in
the SRP; (ii) transmit to IDA progress reports on project implementation and
outcomes twice a year Cn April and October), using the satsfacry format developed
iu the ongoing education project; (iii) organize, no later than November 30 of each
year, starting in 1994, a joint IDA/Government review of project implementation.
including the SRP, based on the progress reports, annual work programs, and budget
proposals for the next academic year to be reviewed in the context of the Public
Expenditure Review; and (iv) carry out a mid-term review of project implementation
-including financial and technical audits-jointly with IDA (and to the exte possible,
with KfW, and the French Cooperaton) no later than May 1997. Based on this
review, the MEN would update the implementation plan for continued project



-41 
executon. Progress in implement  the SRP would be monitored In    ce
with the lndicators annexed to the Letter of Education Sector Developmet Policy
(parm 4.2);
(f)    Use Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB; and standard prourement
documet for LCB (pin 4.13); and
(g)   Submit to IDA audit reports of reasonable scope and detas within: ) sx months
of the end of each fiscl year in the ca  of the anual audit report (including
fianca audits of the use of the grants for constructon), and OQi) te months of the
end of each semester in the case of the SOEs (iar 4.16).
6.6    As a   dudog oqf 1ar4d jrmotat1Qn, the Government ha provided IA witha signed
version of the Letter of Education Sector Development PoUcy (pa 3.15).
6.7    As conditons of credit efectiveness the Government would:
(a)    Meet the first tanche release conditions of the SRP (pan 3.2);
(b)   Appoint the thr regona coordinators for the classroom constuction program (par
3.23); and
(c)    Submit a signed ontact with UNICEF, satisfictory to IDA and including a detild
imlementation plan and a monitoring and evauation system for the micromntrients
component satisactory to IIDA (pars 3.45);
(d)   Transfer BIBS from DEP to DPE (pma 4.8);
(e)    Appoint an independent auditor under a muti-year contract acceptable to IDA (pam
4.16).
6.8    As a condiion of           for fte piot student    _     system, the Government
would sign a contract wih the twning organizaton (pm 3.56).
ndation:t     I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the Arties of
Agreement of the Associton and recommend that the Executive Directors appove the proposd
Credit
Attadhments
Waft". JD.c                                                         Lewis T. Preson
May 31, 1994                                                               Presdent



-42 -
9dA
Pago 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRED)
Es-tm    of Project Coso  aX
(Net of Taxes and Dudes)
ML  fm 
CUSS MILLION)
1. loptemnting a Sectoral Reform Proram
(oulec-disbursinr)                                                           0.0            20.0            20.0
2. loprong Access to an Quatity of Primary Education
(a) Constructing about 1,770 primary schoot ctassrom
end rehabititating about 1,500 classroom                                12.2            14.9             27.1
(b) Developirn and laplementing a program to accelerate
eirls' education                                                         0.2             0.7             0.9
(c) loproving the quality of primary school teachers training
program                                                                  1.9             3.9             5.8
Cd) Providing primary schoot toxtbooks                                       0.0            10.5            1O.S
Ce) supporting OomerrnntAUNICEF-run micronutrient
progrm                                                                   0.0             0.3             0.3
sut-total                                                               14.3            30.4
3. Strengthening Sectorat Managerial and Planning Capacities
(a) Strenothening the capacity of NEU to manage resoures,
and implement and evaluate education
inprovement program                                                      0.3             1.4             1.7
(b) Improving the efficneny of decentralized sector
planning and  mament                                                    0.4             1.3              I.?
Cc) Preparing a development strategy for
higher education                                                         0.1             0.2             0.3
Subtotal                                                                 0.9             3.0             3.9
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                               15.2            53.4            68.6
Physicat conti1ngencies                                                         0.4             2.2             2.6
Price Contingencies                                                                             LI .            1-
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                            18.0            58.0            76.0
FPINANCING PLAJ (USS MILLION)
autLcKDisletm      _        X mm
IDA                                           17.2                    24.Z                     41.4            S4.3
NOAY                                           2.8                      2.0                     4.8             6.4
OERUAMY                                                                10.2                    10.2            13.4
GOVERM_NT                                     19.4                     19.4                                    25.6
COSUUNITIES                                    0.2                     0.2                                      0.3
TOTAL                                         20.0                    S6.0                     76.0           100.0
a\ Totals mey not add ip dbe to rountNng.



-43-
REPUBLIC OF VICAR
BASIC EDJCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
TABLE It SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCURRNEMT ARRANGEMENTS
WUSS mlttion equivatent including Contingenites)
PROCUREMENT METH0S FOl ID& FIN 1NCIl
PECT ELEUENTS                                        tC        LCB      OTHER    N.B.F.        TOTAL COSM
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1  Civil Morks Contraets                                 4.6        *        7.5    a   12.1
(Parts B and C)                                           (4.6))                         (4.6)
1.2 Grants for Schoot Construction                          -        2.4        -         2.4
(Part 8 only)                                               -       (2.2)       -        MU.2,
1.2  Imported Construction Materils                         -         -        5.1 t      S.
(Part B onty)                                                                  (--)       C--)
2. GODS
2.1  Furniture                                             3.8                 3.4  \a   7.2
-       (3.8)       -        (--)      (3.8)
2.2 Office Equipment & Supplies                            0.3       0.1        -         0.4
-       (0.3)     (0.1)       -        (0.4)
2.3  VehicLes & Motorcycles                      1.8        -        0.1        -         1.9
S1.8)       -       0.1)        -         1.93
2.4  Textbooks                                   3.8        -                  2.0   \b   5.8
(3.8)       -         ---)               (3.8)
2.S Pedagogical Materials                        1.1        -                  S.8    c  6.9
2.6. Micro-Nutrients                             0.3        -         *         -         0.3
(0.3)       -         -                  (0.3)
3. CCNSULTANCIES
3.1  Design/SupervisionManagement                 -         -        0.2        -         0.2
=         -       (0.2)       -        (0.2)
3.2 Specialist Services (Internationat)                              1 1.2      -         1.2
-    -       c1~~.2)     -        0.2}
3.3  Specialist Services (Local)                  -                  0.4                  0.4
-         -       (0.4)       -        (0.4)
4. TRAINING
4.1  Fetlowship abroad                            -         *        0.3                  0.3
(0.3)       .        (0.3)
4.1  Local Training                                         -        1.5        -         1.5
--           (1.5)       -        (1.5)
S.  Funds for girls   duceatfon                       -                  0.3        *         0.3
(0.3)       -        (0.3)
6.  Direct Imports (Quick Disbursing)                17.2  \    -         -        2.8   \e  20.0
(17.2)      -         -        C--)      (17.2)
7. MISCELLANECUS
7.1  Operation & Maintenane                                 -        1.2                  1.2
-         -       (1.2)                (1.2)
7.2 Overtime for dotble-shift teaching                      -      - 0.6        -         0.6
-         -       (0.6)       -        (0.6)
7.3  Von civIl servants Contracts                 -                  0.2                  0.2
-         *       (0.2)       -        (0.2)
T.4  Teachers salaries                            -                   -        7.8   \f  7.8
-         .         .        (. )
7.5 Travel Atlowance                              *         *        0 06                 0.06
*         -       (0.06)      -        (0.06)
Total Costs                      24.3      8.7        8.6       34.4       76.0
Total Financed by the IDA credit           (24.3)    (8.?)     (8.4)      C--)      (41.4)
-        em ra  _uuuuau   m          .      _
Note : * Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts finaned by the IDA credit.
* N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
*  The following capitat letters show the project comp_net:
Part A: StructuraL Reform Program
Part 3: Impfovng Acces  and QualGty of primary Educatfon
Part C: Management of the Education System
* (a): Goverruent & KfW; (b): Norway; (C) Government;
* Cd): ICB for contracts above USSI m#llon; (e) Norway; (f) Government.
Figures may not add up due to rounding



-44 -
Scge B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT OYBRID)
Allocation and Disburse_Int of AO IMA Cedit
Categoy of Expenditure               Proposed IDA Allocations     % of Expenditure PFianed
(USS million)               by IDA
1.     Civil Wors                                 6.5                     100
2.     Furniure, Equipment, and Vebicles          6.0                     100
3.     Micrnutrients                              0.3                     100
4.     Pedagogic Matrials and Textbook            4.8                     100
5.     Trining                                     1.7                    100
6.     Consultants Services                        1.6                    100
7.     Girls Funds                                0.3                     100
8.     Educaon lmvemes Progams                    0.2                     100
9.     Inrmenta Recurent Costs                    1.8                     100
10.    Goods Imported During Execution of
the Program                               17.2                    100 of brign
11.    Unaloca                                    LQ
TOTAL                                            41.4
MS AMlE    DAISBUREMEN  oF THE IDA RBr
(in USS mio)
-(VDA PFICAL YAR)
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
A. Quick-disbusing cmet
Annua                                    7.2   10.0
Cumlaie                                  7.2   17.2
D. Investmet element
Annual                                   1.6    4.4    S.4    4.8    4.2    3.2    0.6
Cmulative                                1.6    6.0   11.    16.2   20.4   23.6-   24.2
Totla A+B
Annual                                     8.8   14.4-   5.4    4.8    4.2    3.2    0.6
Culultive                                  8.8   23.2   28.6   33.4   37.6   40.8   41.4
Asumg dibemets from mid FY9Smid PY2001
Econom_ Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: ,11   16779R
T  iss a combined Staff Appaisal and Preside Report (Hybrid).



-45-
Page 1 of I
REPUBLC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATON SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
Tmetablo of Key Projet Proceing Event
(a)    Time taken to prepae                     About S years
(b)    Prepared by:                             Government with IDA assistance*
(c)     First IDA mission:                      May 1989
(d)    Apprl  Mission Departure:                October 1989
(e)    Reapri   mission:                       December 1993
(f)     Negotiations:                           May 1994
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness:          December 1994
* This report is based on the findings of a two-t  pos: An aprai  took place in October 1989 and was led by Mr.
Birg  Pedraa, Pricpd  Education Phaner (AFSPH) but processing beyond the yeow cover rview was postponed due to
poal instbility   Ngr. Th portoy dialo between IDA and the Govemment oonaued 4ung tho tansiton towards
demoato elections and procesn was resumed Ifllowig a seappraisal nissn i Iecabr 1M led by Mr.  aha Ndao,
TW  anSpeoiaW (APP) and including Ms. Toni, Marck, Public Health Specialist (AfSPH); Mess. Pir
NWinon, Prog  Officer (AP5NIRJ; and   bd Moisan (Consulta). Mr. Bernard Abeili, Sr. Ar_h_t/l reatn
Speciast(APC)prvidedexteasiveassistaefinraing hpoc'woring pape. Mr. SakhevarDiop (ACB) finaized
hxbooksx om ponet. lw report was prpad by Mr. Ndso. he report was edited by Mr. Ross P, Edior fi Assista
(APH, costand procesngwee finaized by M. JieLeygoniea Sr. Saf  Asstt (AFSP. M. Katherine Marshall
and Mr. Birger Fdrn are he D      _epartmt Diredor and Managing Divison Chief, respectively, for the operdion; Mess.
Willism D. Cooper (Consuan) and Manuel Zymman (Consu1at - ormerdy AFfMl) are the peer revewes.



-46 -
REPLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT  (Hybrid)
The Status of Bank Operatios in NIGER
Statement of 1BRD Loans an4d WDA Credib
(as of Mwrh 30, 1994)
Amount in uSsmio
Omes cancelaton)                Last AR.PP Raling
Loau or                                                          Undis.        DisbUmse   Dev.       OvezaIl
Credit No.    FY     BoWer          Purpose       MIRD  IDA    bUisd           lag (%)   Objcve    StUS
32 Credits cosed                                          337.03
C1668-NIG     1986   NICER          Health                 27.5    8.42         (13.3)        2      2
C1740-NIG     1987   NICGR          PrmaiyEdu. Dcv         18.4   -5.13          (9.6)        2      2
C1838-NIG     1988   NIGCER         P.E. Inst. DCv.         5.5    0.40         (15.5)        2      2
C1880-NIG     1988   NICER          Enrgy                  31.5   22.26         (32.0)        3       3
C1890-MG      1988   NIGEPR         Smal Rural OP.          93    2.35          (12.9)        2       3
C2122-NIG     1990   NIGER          Ai;c. RoseaCh          19.9-  18.59          84.0         3       3*
C2290-NIG     1991   NIGER          Public Wks & Emp       20.0    3.05         (19.7)        1      2
C2355-NIG     1992   NIGER          A& Services            18.0   1.1.           56.0         2       2
C2360-NIG     1992   NIGER          Population             17.6   15.92           0.0         2      2
C7581-NIG(S)  1994   NIGER          Eco. Recovey           25.0   25.7011           -         - 
TOTAL Number of Credits 10                               192.7  116.98
TOTAL"                                                   569.72
of whih repaid                                        1U.O6
TOTAL held by DA             554.66
TOTAL undisbused                    11.98
Notes:
1/ About USSIO.0 million bas be  disbursed recently.
* Ratings have improved to 2 since Last ARPP in July 1993.
*  Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance repesent both active and inauive Credits.
(S) indicats SALJSECAL Credit



-47 -
SdhgduRr D
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECr (BRID)
Iplementation Issues
1.    General CouztryffPlitcaI Situation: the difficut economic siuton during the last few years,
ws componded by political inbiity. These inevitably affeed the implementateon of projects in may
ways: countepart funds were not readily vable; there were frequent changes in personnel and thus
luck of contnit In project execudon; deterioradon in the seurity situation in the north of the couty
which led the army, for example, in need of equipment to fight the rebels, to seize 10 vehicles belonging
to the Small Rural Operations Project (4 vehicles) and the Agicultr Services Project (6 vehides). Ihe
Govermet eventualy retuned these vehicles to the projects but the lack of the vehicles durig several
monts adversely ffected the Project Management Units' abilities to monitor field operations. nT
coming to power of the new Govenmment has brought some measure of stability to the political siuation
and bettuer attention to the iSSues affecting proJect implementation. The Government has shown more
commitment to reslving Implentation issues by un deag its own spervision reviews and analysis
of the portflio resutig i specific time-bound action plans that it has adhered to (e.g. Small Rural
Operations Ptroject). A montly meeting of all project directors, chaired by the Secretary of State for
Planning, is held to review and resolve problems. The Bans Resident Mission is always ivnited to
partcipate in the meetngs.
2.    Funandal M ment kasues: The financial constraints resulting from the crisis in public
fnamce and from lower levels of exten  assistance throughout the last three years had a major impact
on the availabilty of counterpart funds for some projects in the portfolio (Health, Public Works,
Pmary Education, Transport Secor). Recent donor assistance (Mhe Netherlands, EEC) has provided
some relief, but a long-term solution which includes clearer budgetary procedures is neesary. More
generly, weak financial management has also been apparent in a variety of instances, including some
mismanagement of funds. The Health Project was the most glaring example and it is to the Govenmenes
credit  the issue was addressed firmly and rapidly (a new project director was named and the missing
funds retuned to the project).
3.    Weak Implementaton capadty: This is primarily due to weak instiutional capacity and
frequent chages in project staff. The Bank is addressing these complex issues on a variety of fronts.
Most operadons now indude capacity building components. Time bound action plans have now become
the norm. he Resident Mission staff is playing a very active and expanded role in project monitoring
with direct task mangme  responsiblity for a number of projects and regular guidance to executing
agencies in problem areas as well as generic issues such as accounting and auditing.



- 48 -
Page I of 3
TABLE I
I4GER- KEY ECONO0EC INDICATORS
-ii5    it9"    1991    1992   U921    S99       1995    199%
et.   *se.         iPos.
Economic undlcators {naua  0 change)
Real GOP                                              1.7    -I-8    1.9   -6.5        1.4     3.9     4.2    4*2
Total real sonhuiipton per capita                    -5.4    -5.4    -1.?   -0.S    -0.5    -0.5    -0.5    -0.7
LpOrts of Q4FS (basd on currzet CW values)           -6.0       0    -0.9  -13.4    -3.9    56.4    -2.3        4.1
aiports o: QFS (based on curret CM  values)           3.1   -3.2      1.9  -12.1    -1.6    S0.2   -B 3    -0. 9
Cus. Acct. 9a1.. bet. graats 1% of GOP)             -15.2  -11.2   -7.4   -6.7    -7.5   -16.4   -13.3   -12.2
ConsUMe pt4C  Indx                                   -0.1    -1.S     1.3   -1.8       0.4    36.7     7.3      2.3
National Accounts
I/ GOP at 19I7 constant prices (US$ cUllions)          1485.1  2557.1  2399.5  2417.0  2262.3  1444.7  1390.3  1266.3
GOP at current pcicews (USS  tl2onsl               1440.J 2480.4 233T.5  2344.5  2194.4  1401.4  1542.6    1632.0
Private iAvas=wnt/GOP                                 7.2     4.4     4.1     1.9      1.9     2.4     4.2     4.8
00S/GOP                                               6.1     6.6    6.4      1.0      1.3     2.0     5.2     7.5
private savings/GOP                                   2 6     6.3     5.0    5.4       3.5     1.7     3.5     51.
Public savings/GOP                                    3.5     2.5     1.4   -4.4    -2.2       0.3     1.7     2.4
txt ecm   ,.b
Total debt outstaa"ng (Mu  Millies                   1031    1584    1503    1631    1257    1390    1532    1653
Total debt s*evice/GDP t6)                            7.4     3.6    3.7      3.9      4.2     6.S     5.8      S.:
Debt outstandinq/GDP (t)                             71.6    63.9   64.6    69.6    57.3    99.2   99.3   101.3
Debt Service/eP. of gds. and erY. (0)                29.8    21.3   26.6   27.4    26.$    35.6    32.8    29.3
Fiscal Indicatogs (O of GOPI
central goverrinnt rev., escI. grants                11.4    10.3    0.5    0.2        7.6     9.0   10.7    11.2
Central goveramnt expenditures                       21.3   22.7   16.9    16.0    16.2    23.5    22.2    21.8
Current expenditures                                 11.6    13.3   11t.     12.6    12.2    14.5    12.5    11.9
Capital expenditures                                  9.7     6.9     5.4    4.7       4.3     0.3     8.3     S.6
Ot.he:
Population g.rath rate                                3.4     3.1     3.2     3.2      3.2     3.2     3.3     3.3
1/ 1987 pri ces



- 49 -
Page 2 of 3
TA&U2E 
NIGER- 8ALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(VS$ Millions in Current Prices)
1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     1996
Est.     Prog.          Proj.
Trade Balance                                 3.3      -1.0      -5.9    -50.7    -37.0    -26.4
Exports, f.o.b.                           284.1    265.4    235.5    211.2    218.7    231.1
of which, uranium                       199.4    190.1    159.7    132.2    134.9    138.9
imports, f.o.b.                          -28008   -266.4   -241.4   -261.9   -255.8   -257.6
of which: imports for
uranium sector                -41.1    -43.8    -41.8    -42.9    -43.9    -45.0
Services (net)                             -138.2   -133.4   -124.3   -144.4   -136.8  -_'37.5
Of which: uranium sector                  -30.1    -21.4    -19.8    -18.8    -19.2    -20.5
Of which:
Freight and insurance                   -74.6    -70.8    -64.2    -69.6    -68.0    -68.5
Sched. lnt  on public debt              -39.7    -34.4    -33.5    -39.1    -38.6    -39.9
Sched. int. on private debt             -          -3.0      -2.1     -2.1      -1.6      -  3
Unrequited transfers (net)                   25.5      20.4      38.8    -14.4       -8.0    -14.3
Current Account 8alance                    -109.4   -114.0    -91.4   -209.5   -181.8   -178.2
Excludinq official grants                -172.9   -174.0   -163.7   -230.3   -204.8   -199.9
Capital Account                              29.2      65.0      29.2      53.6      72.7     92.2
Investment grants                        94.3      69.1      62.3     75.7      83.8      92.2
Otficial long-ters, net                   -20.2      28.7    -11.5    -16.9        -7.5      2.8
Drawings                                 24.5      82.7      44.7     34.9      38.1      42.0
Budgetary                             -          46.1      18.5     -        -             -
Projects                               24.5      36.6     26.2      34.9      38.1      42.0
Sched. amortization                     -44.7    -54.0    -56.2    -51.8    -45.6    -39.2
Private capital, net                      -46.1    -18.1       -6.6     -5.2      -3.6      -2.7
Error& and omissions                       -1.4    -16.7    -14.9    -            -        -
Overall Balance                             -80.2    -48.9    -62.1   -156.0   -109.1    -86.0
Of which: uranium sector                  128.1    124.9       98.1     70.5      71.7      73.4
Flnancing                                    80.2      48.9      62.1   -176.6       -8.4    -12.8
Net Foreign Assets (BCSAP)                 -3.6    -12.6        9.4      -8.3      -8.4    -12.8
Fund financing                          -11.3      -9.5      -9.5     13.4      -6.7    -11.1
Pu:chases                             -         -         -         23.2       2.6    -
Repurchases                           -11.3      -9.5      -9.5     -9.8      -9.3    -11.1
Other assets, net                         7.7      -3.1      19.0    -21.7      -1.6      -1.6
Debt relief                                29.1       3.9       9.1    -          -        -
Arrears (-reduction)                        54.7     57.5      43.6   -168.3      -         -
Financing Gap                                -        -         -         332.5    117.5      98.8
Memorandum items:
Average period CFAF/US$
exchange rate                           282.1    264.7    286.4    604.7    611.1    619.3
Sources: Data provided by the Central Bank; and IMF staff astimates
and projections.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 3
NMGER- Statexunt of GovegnDmnt Financial Ooerations
(In silUlis of CMh francs)
1985    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
1st.   Frog.        PrOj-
TOtal revenue                              74.0    69.3   55.6    51.0    47?6    76.5   100.4   113.3
Total expendituse                         137.9   1S3.2   110.7  '104.1   101.6   199.3   209.0   220.6
cuzzent expenditurO                    75.0    90.1    72.5    78.4    76.5   122.6   117.9   120.2
Capital expenditure                   '62.9   60.3   35.2    29.2    27.3    70.4    78.S    87.4
Othez                                  -        2.8     3.0    -3.5    -2.2      6.3    12.6    13.0
Overall fiscal balance (cOO. basis)    -63.9   -83.9   -55.0   -S3.1   -54.0  -122.0  -108.6  -107.3
Adjustuents (changes in arrears)        1.8     3.9   20.4  - 21.0    18.8  -136.6    -         -
overall Fiscal alance (cash basis)       -62.1   -80.0   -34.6  -32.1   -35.2  -259.4  -108.6  -107.3
Fnancing                                   62.1    80.0    34.6    32.1    32.5    60.5    38.1    47.4
lxteral Financing                      60.2    82.4    35.8    33.3    28.8    37.8    47.9   60.0
Drawings                           64.8    67.6   38.6    45.8    42.6    66.9    74.5   83.1
Aoortization due                  -18.6   -17.5   -12.3   -14.3   -16.4   -31.3   -27.9   -24.3
Debt relief                        14.0   32.2    9.4       1.8      2.6    .
Domestic Financing                      1.9   -2.4   -1.1   -1.2         3.7    22.7    -9.9   -12.7
Banking system                     -3.3     1.9   -3.5    -1.2       2.5      .4    -4.1    -6.9
Other                               5.2   -4.3      2.4     0.0      1.2    17.3   -5.8    -5.8
Financing gap  .                           -       -       -       -       -       201.1    71.8    61.2
C-.-:
cuzrent balance                        -1. a   -20.8  -16.9  -27 .4  -28.9   -46.1   -17.5    -6.9



- SI -
Page I of 2
REPUBIJC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (YBRID)
TABLE 1. SOCIAL INDICATORS: PRIORT  POVERTY INICATORS
pw~~~~~: *Wo _ 
S 90 9r . =X MON t DMICA.- 0 RS
COWZ8r.                                       -       -       .        .        _
HIiwa                        %%p                     a        -        _                - 
UlAO Mi -610sw                                      a         0       t        zo     L1 
SltOR??t >Mt6*W
ft i .~i -
--ma$w                                              25       3'   _   __
a  a                  a        C      4
;  -!0Q } tS , _ _~~~~a                                          - 
Fi  *   *  a   91 *t       _4
S                              _       S        S       * ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ *  _
-"                                                                  St       a - _  _
_s0A  %rn: * &__ __ 
FNAmu.,w                                            Lan5ms      La     -       CL      La
*                 %     _         1t      20      2S X~~~i  U  0   USX     £0
Mai.~.-                             U        25      n7       76      t_       t
.a r me*                                     1  14           234     40   n
Umi S  mIay                               -                       171 mu            32
-d  -  a  -    tY       404      75       70
2                                                    -       S       2        32 7n
.Sz                .Ss           n~~~~~~2  40     4       nt        3       47
, !           .    ii           ~~~~~~~~LW8  LOS         2.0      0. Q     LllS
. u^tu                                      1.3  *Is   *.   *.4                3.   a3
-.awa *T~   a                  .,o@ t3eii              -       a        a/ 
s         I   t~~~~~~00    1i   0
a rsw~~~~~~~~
_ tJ-~~~~~~~~0



5 2
A.\\iE: 2.
Page ' of 2
(se:: Table 2: Social tlad.:azors
Niger: Roao c And tzpedbuw
VA& of                             _ _ S
E:'4 w- LorI-CZS
Popu<a~a ~rnt,..1fll)                                  2.734      4,704     1.9tt    4<5:31 Um,.us          M80
@J@  0*4     0.39      057~~~~ao  IL"4       03.71
t.'.na: ' * %ef ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u    l tLS   ;                              elI   [ Y
---~&a          2 2.7       2.i        3.2        3*9    L 5 4           7
-. -.                                     ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  6.3  LT7  3*0       54         3.4
Labor fors                             I*                 S          t         -          -                      -
49        4          4         37         33         31
Am,                                     s, km  .   
a_-' ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~15 *45 -4 .                                  _   O4 _         _     
-$w                                   3V 1r* *           X         4.*        4*        =Q r0.o                LO1
Gf!at'awi         tCl0       104       10 --LO              41.4       4LS
* C,a.~~~~~fl1~~ifl4 ~~A=U&I                     03        0.        00*                     0        04.
*,- .a.@a roZa                 tceq. s; ImS                   321                 WIf       9.971      5.3Q
zews;a=:    )                        a:ai %              L              _.2.    _
SWie.4 =#N
shms *ewe :.% af                                          - _  % c                                  a
Sbaew o.'bacam JQ% o(f1o                .-                          a 
Sr.ot XeS0~~I                                                                               
F**e                                 %of=?                - _        _         _
.:m.         _                          '.               _          .u        _          _          __
7*QgM ~                                                            73        3S         di:                 4_47
-oo                        - P      1       0 ,to_4                           U 77 74 ,410
ao~~~~~~~~                       0*~~~~~~~  0.        La0       144S       41'        94
x.2 ~ ~ ~~~~~o O'                                _        n         344      5,97       6,S9.70
sr. 1   ==i 2Sin c74*a zp                             76. Ai                     94 2pl                    XC
~2      .ZtA(                                             :-         -          '                    - OtOt4S4J9
TsAem =damd xi s                                                             J
Fuci Lrd ;p-Cr                       2*eaZ:P
s,oc~ srj& ampi                    ko aoa ap&.                      :         40        100        350       S 49
-4 wai -24.4 t.4smd.                              a-                   - 
Xi.* *I                                                   _         _                       
A    ws hp.¢:.hdcm ;d,1                                     
, vo s-4 .e¢:   .            1csa                    -          *  t.OO         _    -          -
A.s   ars   t                          aOpdp. a;A .                                                7__
t°?''?'s~~~~~~~~3."   *90                                     34.84         a _  
,2 t!:=ant1Sst            *                 *      t,ta 1.74     _      L32        tJW'         509
4s_wAh*                               %ofpqr        ,              17*       4*  7QS7              7_
U-M&A5                                  *                                   33*        744        71J           _
P.-1L                                   *                          L        49.0       24    _
O M ?        .9a71t   _)             %ea                   -         _         $4        3$         3_
Cron
Cuy                               %at as(-q.                         2                    is        '4 c
F_w.me                                                    0         1.        4          14        37
42        39         42        39         39          Y
amm rsc.w de  q                                       :* 14  :4  39         -         S0
*.$zg,a   eV %s&t 4                                        a                   n         d9          _          _
Rc pmtte.nsc=s_7         ^Wttlt wa             D13                  t4          -          _
'Af ofpa (&V IS-)                           72         S3         39          _
r,m. C(srp IS-)                             a          a 4    2   .2
Son  %0eid 3aIj' WwramumdI Zons   Oqw'wt. AprU 119



- 53 -
RlPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SIR nOIERCT (IIYM=W
BASIC DATA, 1993
ENERAL                 .3 II     -                        ARU
UP Par CapOt W SS)                      300             61S
Total  quatZation (mittion)             6.S             594
Population tirot Rate                   3.1X            3.01
Poputation Grouth Raft ON 6-11          3.3X            N.A
Aidut Literay late (Totat)              14X             491
dutt Literacy Rate (F_ml)                9X             30
Total Fertility Rte                     7.1             6.5
Under Five Nortatity                    123             10Z
Life ExpectY at Blrth (Years)            45              52
Primary Grss Enrottmmnt RatIfo (Tota)   28.53           7
Primr Gross Enrotlment Ratio (Girts)   203              nx
jgflg3: UNESCO Yearbook (1992). Vorld Deteomnt Report (1992). Nn  DvLoqnt Reot (1991), N
Wortd Bank Africa region population projection
ldiwtion (1993/9)    Enrottslnt           Perent   lffi t   ross
Ratieo 
Primr                  410,929                36               28.5
Totat Secondary of      85.199                32                7 b/
Lowr secondary         76,859                34
Upper seday            830                   21
Tech ad Vocatonot         m89                 11               tA
ikrr Education c         7,639                IT                1
a   EST V t duhES/R
b/ Estimtion DEP/ NEER
c/ Untivsity of Niamayt 4,lW
Per Student
1992193, EWdit.  S of bEenditur                 199I"
(miltion FCFA) a/                          FeF  000
Total hI               28.989                100
Prfmry                 13.045                  4S            31
Secondary cl            8,117                  28            lS
Hihe Educatfon d/       7,827                  27          1,000
a/ Executed budgt
b/ inctuding student  s8fsdies (7,350) represeting 25X of total edication expefture.
c/ intuding secoendary students asfdi  (1,75) represnting 25S of total eonda  ep         itures.
d/ includfng higher education subsidies (5,593) reprsnting 70M of total hiker edimation xpendfturwe



-54                  ANNEX 4
Piage 1 of }
LII                  L..      I
z
0~~~~
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C



ANNE2 
Page I of I
EPUBIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRIUD)
Tabte 1: Erl*out 1.1 b De!  M
ENmaLuNW
A. M.
DEPAnUtTN              1993         1999    OISm        1995     1999
Agadez               20.276       28,521      5.9X     44.9     51.7%
Diff.                 9,726       14,256      6.6X     30.22    31.1X
DOsso               54091        78,416     6.4X      20.7X    32.02
Naredi               62,879       92.6T5     6.72      23.12    28.72
C.U. Niamy           78,710      106,948     5.2X      82.6     88.72
Tahous               62.606       92,102     6.6X      25.2X    32.92
Tillatery            65.632       96,246     6.62      20.6X    31.92
Zinder               57,009       84.959     6.92      19.32    25.6X
Girts               146,S15      237,693     8.42      20.0X    28.0X
Boys                264,414      356.430     5.12      36.72    42.02
Totat               410,929      594.123     6.32      28.52    35.02
abte Z: Enros am Ptation by                 am Sex
piuiRT u CATIM                  1993                            1993               1999
ENROLLENT             6u         POP            TOT. PKr
DEPMRTNENTS     ETAS.          Girls     BOas   Girls  Ors   Gfrtts       Eoys
Aadez            94            7946   12,330    0.35  0.55  22.588   22,591   55,216
Diffa            112           2913    6,13    0.18  0.43  16.165   16.004   38.412
Dosso           369            15909   38,182    0.16  0.38 100,749   99,86S  245,180
-aradi          441            18987   43,892    0.14  0.32  136,208  136,028  323,175
C.U. Niaesy      133          39093   39,617    0.82  0.83  47,695   47,s86   120,560
Tahoua          490            16299   46,307    0.13  0.37 124,201  124,081  279,605
Titlabery       537           27858   37,774    0.22  0.30 126,273  126,195  301,460
Zinder          479            17510   39,499    0.12  0.27 147,678  147,382  332,285
Totat          26S5          146,515 264,414     0.20  0.37 721,557  719,732 1,695,893
ablemu 3: EvolutIon de ta solarisatia priimroe
1975/76    1960/81    1985/86    1990/19    1991/92    1992M       199319
Effectlff           142.182    237.551    278.087    358.475    375.972    386.082    410.929
PopuLation          806.464    950.204  1.158.696   1.308.273 1.351.189  1.395.S12  1.441.289
Taux scolarisation    17.602    25.02      24.00X     2?.402     27.802     27.70M      28.5X
Tau mayen accr .                 8.92                  5.20X                              4.52
Souree: DEP, DEPD (MEN) et SCR (NEF)
*leua 4: Distributicn aeesPit     r e oatioie_
Insitituteur      Institutoure        ontteurs     Inst/Inst.AdJ      Totat
adjoints                            3 
1991             2145               6390              889                            9424
X               22.82             67.82             9.42             1/3
1992             2542               6848              850                           10240
X        ^      24.82             66.9X             8.3X           ._     _
Souce:DEPet DEPD ou KEN
Tabteau 5: Structure dEs sItres prgrade at sexee
Hommes         Pfemmes          2 Sexes        X Porsonmt Enseignmennt priv
Instit.         73.80n           26.22           24,802                     RA
inst.Adj         62,90X           37.1X           66,902                     Ln
Nonfteurs        45,50X           54,5 5X         08,30X                     aiL.
Total           64 ,2           358       J      1002                      L.1n



-56-                                                    ANNZX.6
Page I of I
ANNUAL MONITORING INDICATORS AND DRAFT IMPLEENTATION PLAN
1.      Annual monitoring indicators (page 2) have been developed in order to assess progress in the
implemena on of the SRP and in related project activities.  These Indicators are basd an the
working papers elaborated by the Niger project preparation team.
2.      The draft implementation plan hcludes: (i) smmary of the general objectives of the pmoject
and of oututs of main componens and sub-comp                  (U) measures-direct or indirect-to  verify
the status of the objectives and ouut indicator  and (I) Important events, conditions, or decisis
which must preval in order -to achieve the related objecv  or outut.
ANNUAL MONOIPJG liDICATS
199 "M   1                   im
1. Taux aohetiopnae                       Tauxbft                 31.2%   32.1%    33.1%  34%      3S%
audent 35%    1"9.                                            (4630  (4940  (25.700) OM51.0090)
2. La poato du  ll. a"
40%  n 19m                              POWoatlo,               37.0%   37.7%   3W%    393%    40.0%
3. Lak sooido Zn en miiu ual
ut VS27%ea 1999                         TauxWtu                 21.9%    23.0%    24.8    26.0%   27.7%
4. Le tau de edauble_en bales
Co) glbhWux  I 10% eon 199              Tuan                    1453%    13.5%    11.0%    10.5%   10.0%
u) pw I CM2& 20%                        Taux                    34.%    30.S    26.%    22.0%    20.0%
S. Pornuta de saeamuxmt                   Maue                   720      720      720     720      720
(dont   Instil. adjon SS)                                      610     610      610      610     610
6. Augmentato poatebuds&alea
pOW hn mate du priame                   Pod"                   520      520     520      520     520
7. Budget atWdd. do poma
ad  eon mill  FCFA                      manual                 439      519     599      679     759
S. RedW    ulaen do poin
de porse.ursdeu ENI                     RWdployd                32        -
9. Lf.pofs du maombin font
21h por b bw cyde at                    Hoat                    21      21       21       21      21
l9b powt  seond cyckl                    1ak19 19                       19       39       it      19
10. FdPr     y65 d on e    pd*6
11. Cou  de Pof. annudu                   Co"                     76        -        -                -
12. 13W cohats. dAy  doss
-mem  daudo    vacatonh
pult do 1996                            Choeti                1340    1310    1310    t380    1380
13. Ls bat  do sn*isnbase
I 3S ilards FCFA ean 1999               MotAi                    4.6     4.2      3.9      3.5     3.S
14. La allcation do uacoadake
milntuneta. 1.6 MiadsjuW*a1M.           mama                     1.6     1.       1.6      1.6.
15.2.600 nouvlselsa do dcesan             Cass                   520      S20     520      520      520
constus dont 84.. milieu nd
(dost 1.770 par!. pcoet                 Clhs                   170     250      340      230     1S0
(600 par!to overo                       cham                   120      120     120      120     120
161S      QOOOcla...lces no abthds        Clm_s                  200      3550    350      3Q0      300
17.1.6 mmin do livi dihuds (an OO)      Rdimpsimk              610        -        -       -
-                        -     380      310     220
18. 1.2 mlmb de cubis do } t   disiadh
(eOn 00)                          R_duI                  600     600        -        -
19.30000 venmidtmluadudd                    BJiaspm                -   12m0o0        -       -        -
vnx                  6000  12.000                 -        -
20. 7500 livs hge  nones!
distubuds                             ULb=                  75000        -                   '
21.26 milion do micro-nntmAdrbuds
& 16S.O000dOs de Mad e t Dos           Colus                 2970    5775    5775    55         5775
22. Tmeaurnaes dltre4 d at Da)            Ttan                   S00                 -       -        -



-57-
PAge lof 3
REPUBLC OF MGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECrOR PROJECT )IYBltD)
PLAN D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
WOMIEfuPROJn            INDCATO=R                    VRRIFCAIt(ON x~HS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ SU WPO SIT IO N
Coudbb   4 uhnh%&wbwd    l.l.Tav~x 4'        W" W         1..oei  SdlwV
de h pepis,,..     - = d  b. -  ,: ..                           ,, ,,.,
90w soir mcR                                              MEno                         ____
AuAw%.d di md. TWX d saoduat            i    1. StteUu Z s DIMEN   1. 519 pod.  bus c   Ima
kwlltlistVduso de        asah 3S% an 1999.                 NOupue des hAse1Met    souvusxuw qOmiis
huEs, swig aEgoutur Is mum                                Dkesdomldgku"ssd I'Matt- NEhou =a  bud- .de
trwd es Is seelelutl due SMe.   2. Iu potausmes esoWee de* usxtle,. mmhdewe gAl now
2. R6edulws4valulpt-   330 mki.. de F.tA
3. La propodloodu Agale susi   Amm ueolku pit UNSat    pour h dpemsaddltla.
40% a1999.                  IDRAP.                     mldes d Wmetile a d
4. li saooualuisloan dmils mun  3. R6dmItt 6bdvaluslamwusl  d4pueaddommflenado
a#sh 27%. an99o.            pit C      dmiolih ueu pe  to-   miMe pMmoape.p
b t rb _ . D_~~~~~~mdo soh"  l" _an
S. Is am de mdoubhmou       gd .                       2. I" ma"nemi  coum_l-
bdml2t v    u5 duh                                     sa pin de Matsde
ates " 1 auwalwu mIoua                                 palmsedoulussi
1999.
6. Las Claun I '!vlmli nuati-
pies npduoxaetat w moins 35%
7. 1380cabouussd'Amusdi S
cbas souwwwsadouble vaustlas&
peels do 1996.
4. Lo oail                  3Rv*hcib_es.a
IMme.  an"    =oml  3?
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   081999.
Amiwatie de I qu*  et           L^
tat Pu  lact                           a_
X     1                       _      _    _   __            __           __            __           _



-58-Pa2d3
LEaR     _t Ww.fcersh          1..;   eplfda.l              1.1. Azie duMUowm I<. b         .l. cmX _tlclbi
fasmaeabi  aSauut dv            ulm don touts le EN atd   eaurod ceau.o den    atu cotnu c_lo  Paw
_X_itw dee pu*leat do               IS % nsal     pM 851 hot.  he EN. SM154b Do.        srEt PlpuN*a ona-
leh    fiantom                 Adj. paw  d'.ooba 1994.       DD at OAF do ME.           te.
I2. LA tuvaapcoSa_sam       de 12. AIt1do adaaIue    1i. Laulatemvnedm4o
laitmo pzofAu *UoA-  d4t aeuvuw prsgmm da                saago 4. buasm
quo at puuqu. *t gnieid  b    tome  o N.                 WsAt cet_a   ss no
pottEr  tobt 1995                                        eadom o        ow
13. Lo d1w oIn  N _me-    p_ommodl and bod au
1.3. Tut Io EN coda&doo  moat deao dons hdo lo    dvoms domclq u'e-
&omtosnto. it contnu.  at zea vilil pahum 1 _fa    ulsi heal.
mum.
1.4 La FacuMde Pldeoal.  at
tomfatmad   ENS MahmtI    1.4. &   aomm oupuateasinr-
asian huven _atsauaI  vkiis ea  ains v           fi m fb
p.tr p d'ctabte 1994        r1uV pot  adumstpld      l-
1.5. Las $00 uman ddnutiaa
pldagcgiquoWorg1oada desto-   IJ. aptauo  dti-
Usa iatEgps pout la famio   fda dos EN at i st. luA&a
uabialo.                     tics DWRAPIENUDEPD.
1.6 TOxI  a1 uu I  11NS.
A.I       M -   ItNSm
ecude me,u#ws Ia
L2 Moarel 3i           dos     2.1. asia 19" ho 11w &po-  2.1. 610,000 lweoplomis.  2.1 Badgat wmm  4u
mt d  malasuasmzut swd'a  mauaml per 411 as                                           ME  pour ho feuelo
de _moma s  de fouuua  see-  madlaatqwpour hoI CPI d    2.2. rlpocdo de 1.2 M-   agmuom qus wat de
bk.                            CP2, uo mm"  de boeo  pa     f  doad.  us Ommedo         80 =EDlom do FCFA et
hive dCP au CP2, US riv.   nulidmIlqus                   an"lu 759 mlie. ICA
ou acbler de msthdnazqupr eV 1999.
ETv du CPt au CU2, us  w.   23. 976MOumvsualxlw
do Smnir ade    d  als       Impadlin.                   2.2 Ls aotesm au i
souesd pur doux Mm dis CBI                               buGs I 1_utMsao. du
au Ci, et = Ev dblobtl et  2.4. 12,000 gudoo de mal       mush
dogiopupbia pour doux Qua.  dullpL
du C1 au C02. 75,. COM Is                                23 An moln 230,0
- Ique  aslo         Ihs ct 2.18000Q na xidsodu   _              q d
30.OOuldes  d      dbI al- b m't  p                     M" do p*jt  an
2.6.75,e000 Wm on au
MAMsla     - zdiis          2. ho momaodls duo
nmu"Mmmobhsat
2.7 lappos duo. aii Imeosat   bom VnAapcs ppal b 3m
due o.2.we do so"de         euw   m
guo lout..
2.S ldEAP da _.v
2.81. Ivaluamatisdmao. flroo    a m . ospool insuilow
In aspects ooaksd epliqoga  d'Evsudondo umausei
bv_ __  9oa                 a des awn..
CONOWrominMtd sotls  4.1. 1.770nouvUa   m de                4.1. RappaoSIES,1apedoms  4.1. I bud4%_dos-
dooh s. pose _  hdraVaijat   cse coosuls (14% an zov                                    naeos de lvi  m
dea molszfsden  351    199.   nuale) dam 8 d      _pe*o.u*.                              hpmo na 
dB 600 um    de "CA
4.2.1500_ css  ser imabP- p_et!. oc                                       et
sa enos bada  pour           4.2 Mme                     rlulpamnd4 120 els-
oo i b double vetgan at                                  ma do p in_.
ean zo  nata pour ocaompesmr
hos c_ss  mu.tlrde.          43. Mem                     4.2 L'aatioysu
do.dck  atssa er
4.3. tous  s cas.m oansuuim                              he APE et1ls ooatMis
au rdhabMiune qubpson mob    4.4. dte         camaoiso
Hor mOew.



- 59-                                                        ANIK
59                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~POPe 3 of 3
?toaouamw*   ssolszaago doe    L& Pepmpa4    do, S1U" k hookh   Sktwila DWUEN 'sla#p-   Las scoRb d'lD  pads's
Ill's                          pAvInm  peas de 36% en 199 I  poolCaWbleTso*Aahinde       kam biWs' ha in   ants
40I  .t 99.                  pra. admde k souabas d.. to mdt6 %eu a In
S. Mew*s as eawie aM  Cup*,                                  SIls                        .lnmt soo'"S"ecvala-
Pe &'lahaadtla. 4'AeIasio  at 5.1. Tom*s Ine APSh tomtb6as                               snde bdod5as. do asoha-
de1 Commwea*_ pow pmas   p1des .apWad'C.                     SI. RappedesoI 4 '>dvs      Mt In  as.
"Ierk   a p     st- X  pw 1. _s ls  tWd
[~~~~~~~slruto  s  k  did'                                                       UMidsastuutd.
dWdbud$e"a Sd       sAl...                                -. Lee  lwaua
tsar. uru gam  isuo t pdIdpss                            poayapin.dlDC.a
amtudlVAN. ="s, ssaolabmk                                 CRsos
dea      uzdavana 1994.                                  S.. Lusa suoehapaM.
pea telgissas et ft"ad-
5.3. Ds camas hdaatsotgaa-                                .am1 u. aopula
ho d    _         t eves . padelpI  due
pama d'Ew& & pea de 1994.
5.4. Du sUAZ.. pub_i     sw
ha seohimatlo ds Sila difalas
son 1995.
5.S. RDmiom crado            .                            tSvkbem
goos arpauldast mau nabs slo
5.6. La namb  d'auiR   dam
lesjowmnsuaoamrb
pwbldqn   doe k ooldaaloa
d$ S n. AS gmntaL
ad _mils d'_ AU. gout a.aI
50 05W@.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 60 -
AM 
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECr (HYBRID)
May 2, 1994           LETTER OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
Mr. President,
Tnis lete dfines the objectives of the Governmen's education secoor policy for the
Implementation of Is education rehabiition prgram for the 1994-1999 period. ITis program is
dedicated to the condnuation of the Primary Education Development Project (Education 11). It aims at
making the Nigerien education system one which is more relevant and equitable, in whih the sector's
resources are mobilized and utilized efficiently, and in which prioAr is given to the epansion and
improvement of the quality of primary education. It is under this famework that the Basic Education
Sector Project (Education Im) is submitted to the iternatonal Development Association for financing.
This will be a hybrid project consisting of both a Sectoral Reform Program (which will take place through
two quick-disbursement tranches, the first of which will be released when the conditions of credit
effectiveness are met, and the second upon completion of the reform measures described in this letter)
and an investment credit which will acowmpany the implementation of the reform measures. More
precisely, the objective of the sectoral adjustment is to:
i) increase the amount of public resources destned for primary education; and
(ii) increase the efficiency of resource use in the education sector.
One of the most serious problems confronted by Niger, with regard to its economic and social
growth, is the low level of human resources development, particularly the high rate of illiteracy in the
country. This situation can be traced to the weak development of primary education. Ike Government
has decided to give priority to resolving this problem in its overall strategy for the fiture development
of the country. An increase in the education enrollment ratio is essentia to economic growth, as well
as to improving the population's sanitary and nutritional conditions, particularly among vulnerable groups
such as women and children.
In the famework of the Primary Education Development Project, the Government has
implemented a certain number of measures aimed at increasing efficiency of public resources allocated
to the education sector.
Reduction of Unit Costs: Limiting the mnmber of  tins eurs to 14% was maintned untl 1989.
Additionally, the teaching indemnities for persons trained as teachers but occupying administrative posts
was abolished. Automatic recruitment of graduates into the civil service was also abolished. Ihe
development of a less expensive prototype classroom and the use of local labor allowed for the
implementation of a claswoom construction program with a reduction in the unit constuction cost by
about 50%.
Jnproving the Effiiency of the Education Sector Resources: In order to achieve this, the following
measures were adopted:



- 61 - 
Page 2 of 4
(a)    For the preervice teachers' traning: recruitment Into the long training cycle (4 yeas)
was stopped in October 1989, and the last group promoted into this cycle graduated in
June 1993. One of the five Teachers' Training Colleges (:lTCs) was turned into a ycde.
(b)   For double-shift and multlgrade teachdng: an expeim      double-shi teaching
program which covered 207 classrooms as of October 1993, was implemented after
having been interrupted.
Measures envisaged for 199S-1999: To tncrease the primary education rate from 29% to 35% by 1999,
and to improve its quality, the Govrnment will increase resources allocated to prmary education. To
achieve this: (a) a construction program for 2,600 classrooms will be undertaken between 1995 and 1999
(84% of which will be located in rural areas), an average of 520 classrooms per year, (b) 1,500
classrooms will be rehabilitated during this same period, (c) girls' education wil be promoted using
appropriate measures (in order to raise the share of girls' enrollment in primary education from 36% in
1993 to 40% in 1999), (d) approximately 1.6 million textbools and 1.2 million mathematics workbooks
will be distributed tprimary students, (e) pre-service and in-service teachers' taining will be reinforced
with an accent placed on professional practice, and (f) a nutritional program wMI benefit approximately
165,000 students.
In order to improve the efficient use of resources budgeted for the sector, the Nigerien
Government will implement and uphold the following measures:
Measure 1.- Increase Public Expenditures on Primary Education. To ensure attaimnent of a 35%
enrollment ratio by 1999, and to improve the quality of education, the Covernment will implement the
following policies during 1995-1999: (I) at least 520 new teaching positions will be added to the primary
education budget per year, and 720 trainees will be trained in the TMCs; (ti) budgetary allocations for
pdrimary education pedagogical materials will, under a specific line item increase by 80 million CFAF per
year in order to reach a minimum total of 759 million CFAF in 1999; (iii) under the national investment
budget, 120 classrooms wiUl be constructed and equipped each year.
Measur 2.- Extend Use of Double-shift Teaching In Primary Education. The acrrent situation in
prmary education in Niger is either a teacher has only a small mber of students (as in rural zones with
large catchment areas) or has too many students (urban zones) and the admission requests cannot be met.
To overcome the first situation, multigrade classrooms which are dispersed throughout the country will
continue to be used. For the second, double-shift classrooms (one clssroom for a teacher and two
cohorts of 55 students each) will be used in urban zones in order to reach at least 690 classrooms
beginning in October 1996 and be maintained until 1999.
Measure 3- Resructure and Consolidate Training of Primar   School Teahers. TraininF  of
Insteurs  will be limited to one year of professional t   with recruitment taking place via
examaon after receiving the Bac. The four TMCs (Maradi, Doso, Tahoua and Zinder) will ensure pre-
service and in-service teachers' training. Instructors at the TrM will ensure 120 hours of classes and
60 hours of folow up for students or participation in in-sevice teaching for teachers. Ihis orgizatio
wiUl allow for the redeployment of 32 TrC instuctors to lyc&es. All four TIMs wili recuit trainees o
a basis of 85%  sieurs ados snd 15% nutewrs.
Measure 4.- Tranform  the Sool of Pedagogy Into a Seondary Teacher Tralning CofUege.
Currently the School of Pedagogy offers subject mat, including pedagogical traiing, which largely
duplicates progams offered by the Schools of Science and Humanities. However, no htruction is



- 62-
Page3of4
provided for upper-secondary school teaches or to ?TC instructors. The reoga a  to be applied
in the famework of the new poject will consist of separating the subject mats frm th prfonal
theoretical training, except as a transition for those who ae recruited as Lower Secondary School sienco
teahr. Subject matter will be taught in the various Schools of the Univeztlky of Niamey, wherea
ptofssional theoredcal training (for lower seconday teachers-one year, teachers at lyces-on ye, ad
inspectors and pedagogical advisor) wlll take place in an new Secondary Teacher Training Colleg to
be located in the former School of Pedagogy.
Meas   5.* More EMcient Use of Teachers in General Secondary Educaon. Cuwreny, seconday
school teachers, on average, do not meet the official weey hours required (21 hours for lower secoa y
school and 18 hours for upper-secondary school teachers). In the scope of the project, the measures
undertaken as of October 1993 (class rotaton, additional hour in other schoolsIt fulfll the minimum,
etc.) will be iesfied in order that each teacher fulfills the official weely hours reuired. As a result,
a surplus of about 100 teacets wi exist; of these 24 wil be placed in private schools rather than placed
on budgety subsidies, and 76 contacts (mostly foreign) will be cancelled.
Measure 6.- Assure Rational Management of Student Subsidies. Ihe Nigerien tradition has been tD
nish aid to cerain secondary students in order to increase education among those of modest meas.
The Government has decided to freeze, in nomina terms, the generad secondary education scholrshp
at the 1993-94 level of 1.6 billion CFAF. The target levels of scholarships and social subsidies for higher
educaton will be, in nominal terms, 3.5 billion CFAF in 1999. Additionally, the Government has
decided to stabilize the level of scholarshis to higher education at approxmaely 4.6 billion CFAF.
In addition to the six measures mentioned above, and in order to increase the internal efficiency
Of the education system and promote first year access, the repetton level in primary education witl be
reduced fom 15% to 10% by 1999. Taking into account the budgetary constrns faced by the sector's
expansion, the Government wil conduct a study which will enable it to implement corcrete solutions
before increasing the role of private education and the communities in both education financing and
developmenL The Government will also evaluate the use of naionl languages in the classroom with a
view to insduting an expanded national lau e program in the classrooms. In order to atti a higher
education system which can respond to the country's developmental needs and which follows the
evolution of the labor market, the economic constraints of the country and places priority on prinary
education, the Government will (a) conduct an analysis of the weaknesses in the higher education system
which will lead to the orgazation of national debate on the subject, and (b) elaborate and implement a
higer education development plan, restg from the debate, before 1996.
The Government is coniced that the investment measures eviaged in the Primay Educaton
Project (Education Im) would increase primary education and help the Nigerien education system to
develop greater efficiency and equality, and further develop its relevance to the socia and economic
development of te country.
Sincerely,
Mahamadou Issufou
Prime MiNWer
Republic of Niger



REPUBLIC OF VIM
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
OIJECTIVES A-                    AGREENENT OT/IDA                            RlENE CRITBtU
PoLILc FFFtE ns                  REACHED PRIOR TO                         VET ACTI   TO BE JAREN PRIOR TO OMLEASE OF:
N1EGTIATIONS                          FIRST TRA FCHEEFECTIVBE  OECUE  1994   S EC04D TRRCl OECOER 19S5
A. INCREASED PUBLIC EXPENDITURES 1. RECRUITMENT OF 2,600 PRI"ARY      1.1 BUDGETARY ALLOWACE FOR, AND RECRUIT-    1.1  UDGETARY ALLMOANCE FOR, AND RECRUITMENT
ON PRimARY EDUCATION             SCHOOL TEACHERS; CONSTRUCTIGN OF      PENT OF AT LEAST 520 ADDITIONAL              OF AT LEAST 520 ADDITIONAL PRItARY SCHOOL
600 CLASSROOMS; AND INCREASE PRIM-   PRIMARY SCHOOL TRACNERS fOR SCHOOL YEAR      TEACHERS fOR SCHOOL YEAR 1995/96.
ARY EDUCATION INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS  1994/95.
TO FCFA 760 MILLIONS BY 1999.
1.2 ADMISSION OF AT LEAST 720               1.2 ADNISSION OF AT LEAST 720 ADWITIONAL
ADDITIONAL TEACHER TRAINEES                 tEACHER TRAINEES FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR
FOR THE SCHNOL YEAR 1994/95                 1995/96.
1.3 CONSTRUCTION OF 120 PRIMARY SCHOOL
CLASSROOMS DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR 14/95.
1.4 ADOPTIOD OF THE 1995 RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES BUDGET, AND THE 199f/97
ROLLING tHREE YEAR PftLIC INVESTMENT
PROGRAM fOR EDUCATION. SATISFACTORY TO IDA.
B. EXTENDED USE OF DOUBLE-SHIFT  2. INCREASE DOUBLE-SHIFT            2. INTRODUCTION OF DOUBLE-SHIFT              2. INTRODUCTION Of DOUBLE-SHIFT TEACHING IN
TEACHING                         TEACHING FROM 207 TO 690             tEACHING IN AT LEAST 440 PRINARY             AT LEAST 670 PRIMARY SCHOOL CLASSES FOR
CLASSROOMS BY 1999.                  SCHOOL CLASSES FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR           THE SCIOOL YEAR 1995/96.
1994/95.
C. RESTRUCTURE AND CMOSOLIDATE   3.1 RECRUITMENT OF tEACHERS ON A BASIS 3.1 ADMISSION INTO TTCS OF 110 TEACHER TRAINES 3. ADMISSION INTO TtCS OF 110 TEAHER TRtAIEES
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING        OF 85X INAs AND 15X Ins.              (OACCALAUREAT) FOR ONE YEAR TRAINING, AND   (BACCALAUREAT) FOR ONE YEAR TRAININO, AND   o
610 TEACHER TRAINEES (8EPC) FOR TWO YEAR   610 TEACHR TRAINEES (BEPC) FOR TW YEAR
TRAINING FOR SCH    YEAR 1994/95.           TRAINING m  SCHOOL YEAR   95.I
3.2 REDlCTION OF SURPLUS OF          3.2 PROOF OF REDEPLOYMENT OF 32 TTCS TEACHERS
TTC TEACHERS BY 30X.                 AT LYCEES BY EFFECTIVENESS.
0. CONSOLIDATE SECONDARY TEACHER 4. TRANSFORATION OF THE FACULTY      4. LEGAL INSTRUMENT TRNSFORMING THE         4. NO NE ADMISSION OF TEACHER TRAINEES
TRAINING                        OF PEDAGY INTO AN ECOLE NORMALE       FACULTY OF PEDAGOY INTO AN ENS.              TO SECOARY tEACER PRORM  OTHER
SUPERIEURE TO AVOID DUPLICATION                                                   THUA THOSE OF THE ENS.
OF PROAMS  WITH OTNER tIIVERSITY
FACULTIES.
E. HORE EFFICIENT USE OF TEACHERS S. INCRASE UTILIZATION OF                                                       5.1 CACLATION OF 76 SECONAY SCHOO
IN GENERA SECONDARY EDUTION    TEACHERS TO MEET OFFICIAL                                                           TEACHER CONTRACTS.
NOURS REGUIRED.
5.2 PRIOVISION OF 24 ADOITIONL TEACHERS TO
PRIVATE SCHOOLS IN LIEU OF MUETARY
SUBSIDIES.
F. CONTAINMENT OF STUDENT      6.1 REDUCE HIGHER E TION SCHOLAR-   6.1 HIGHER EDUCATION SCHOLARSHIPS BWDGET       6.1 HItHER EUATION SCHOLARSHIPS SPENDING
SWStIIES                         SHIPS BUDGET FROM  FCFA 5.5          REDUCED TO FCFA 4.8 BILLION IN 1994.         REDUCED TO FCFA 4.6 BILLON IN 1995.
BILLION TO FCFA 3.5 BILLION
BETWEEN 1994 AND 1999.
6.2 MAINTAIN, IN SNITNAL TERMS, SE-    6.2 SEDARY EATION SUWSIDIES MAINT-         6.2 SECODARY EDCtoN SUBStDIES NAINT-
CONDARY EDUCTION SUSIDIES AT         AIMED AT FCFA 1.6 BILLION IN 1994.           AIIED AT FCFA 1.6 BILLION 10 1995.
1.6 BILLION FRO  1994/199.
Notet This tebte hightlght. key project cedlttionetity cnly. Revie criteria Is attached.



-64-
- 64-                     ~~~~~NNEX 9
Page I of 3
REPUBIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (YRID)
SUMMARY OF RECURRE  EXPEITURES AND COST SAVINGS
GENERATED BY THE PROJECT
Assmpi  behind estima
Measu  1: Increase Public expenditures on primarr education. This measure would increse public
expenditures on primary education and conins three elements. Tachers salari. To staff the 2,600
classroom construction prgram, 520 new teachers posts need to be created amnually during the five-
year period 1994/95-1999/2000. Assuming that the salary scale do not change and the recruitment
of new teachers on a basis of 85% Instier adjoints (INA)- starting anmual salary of FCFA
819,800-, and 15% Instituts (IN)-starting anmnal salary of FCFA 557,500, the cost for the
average annual salary would be FCFA 597,000. Pedagoi Serials. As, the education budget
materiel of FCFA 359 million would be increased by annual increments of FCFA 80 million, the total
Increase over the project period would be FCFA 1.2 billion or FCFA 240 million on average per
year. Classrooms         . Given a unit cost of about FCFA 5 million and 120 classrooms to
be constructed and equipped through Government investment budget, the total investment in
classroom construction would be FCFA 3 billions or FCFA 600 million per year.
Measure 2: Extended use of Double-sbift teaching. The SRP calls for an extended use of double-
shift teaching in the three first grades of urban schools according to the following schedule:
1993/94:     207 classes (414 pupil-groups)
1994/95:     440 classes (880 pupil-groups)
1995196:     670 classes (1,340 pupil-groups)
1996197:     690 classes (1,380 pupil-groups)
'1997198:    690 classes (1,380 pupil-groups)
1998/99:     690 classes (1,380 pupil-groups).
199912000:   690 classes (1,380 pupil-groups).
As each teacher would teach two pupil-groups and as double-shift teaching was reintroduced in
1993/94 as part of the preparation of this project, the savings in terms of number of teachers would
range from 207 in 1993/94, to 690 in 1996/97. Assuming that all the new teachers would be INA
at an eimated average anmnal salary of CFAF 557,500 and taking into account the fact that teachers
teaching in double-shift classes would earn 25% more during the school year ( nine months), the
annual savings per teacher would be CFAF 453,000. Thus, total annual savings would range from
about CPAF 94 million in 1993/94 to about CFAF 313 million from 1996f97-19912000.
To these savings on teacher salaries should be added savings on training of teachers, and on
classroom construction. As regards the former, the estimates shown in Table I are based on the
following assumptions: (i) average unit costs of CFAP 382,300 per pupil-year in teacher taining; (ii)
two years of training for an IA, thus disregarding repetition; (iii) no replacement needs due to
attribution; and (iv) to firther simplify, all savings accrue the year the teachers are recruited. Based
on these assumptions, 207 teachers were needed to be trained in 1993. 233 would need to be trained
in 1994, 230 in 1995, and 20 in 1996. The savings in construction costs per classroom is estimated
at about CFAF 5 million including school furniture.



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
Measure 3: Restrucure and consolidate   y Teacher Training. The cost savings derived from
TIC salaries following the reorganaon of the pr-service training, and from primary teachers'
salaries because of the recruitment at TTC based on 85% INAs and 15% INs.  Sav;ng i TlC
t es'aries. h 1993/94, the four Tr  total 43 classrooms. At an average of 35 pupils per
class, the TIC would permit a total enrollment of 1,500 studens compared to the actual enrollment
of 660. After the resucturing, each of the four schools would have one class of IN, the rest being
haswrs affloaft (INA). The combined enollment under the SRP would be 110 + (610* 2)=
1,330 students. The remain capacity would be used for in-ervice trai . Given the average
class of 35 pupils, the weddy studt lening hours of 30 and the weekly teaching hours of 18 and
the total number of students enrolled, the number of pedagogical classes needed is 1,330/35 = 38
; the total required learning hours are 38*30 = 1,140; and the teaching posts necessary would be
1,140/18 =63 as compared to the existing taching force of 94 professors. To provide for sick
leave or absence, the equivalent of one professor could be use to higher temporary teacher. Thus,
the surplus of TTC teachers represents 94 -63-1= 32.
Imary teachers'salaries. 7Te average recruitment at TIC is 46% INs from 1990 to 1993. Given
the output of 720 teachers per year foreseen in this project, the TTC would have trained 389 INAs
and 331 INs as compared to the new organization of 110 INs and 610 INas per year. IN's starting
salary is FCFA 819,876 as compared to FCFA 557,500 for INA. The salary cost for a cohort of 720
teachers with the existing system would have been (879,876*331) + (557,500* 389)= FCFA 488.3
million. With the new system of 85% INAs the cost would be (879,876*110) +(557,500 *610)=
FCFA 430.3 million. For each cohort of 720 teachers the saving in salaries amount FCFA 58 million
Measure 4: Consolidat secondarv tbri uWing. As regads the restrucuring of the Faculty of
Pedagogy (FP), the cost savings derived from this measure are based on the difference in unit costs
between providing the fist two years of post secondary training at the Faculty of Humanities (CFAF
606,200) and Faculty of Science (CFAF 1,149,500), as compared to CFAF 1,185,200 at the FP.
In 1993, the FP had 418 students, of whom 167 in humani_es. Assuming the unit costs remain
unchanged at the first two faiculties following the restuctring (because of economies of scale, one
would expect the unit cost to fall, thus leading to greater cost savings ta those esmated here),
annual savwgs would amount to about CFAF 105 million.
Measure 5: More efficient use of teachers in rsecond=rlr eduM   Three measures woud be taken
to eliminate the underutlization of secondary school teachers: (1)76 contts would be cancelled
at the end of 1993/94 school year; and (ii) a total of 24 teachers would be allocated to private schools
in October 1994 in lieu of subsidies. Using as a basis for the estmes the mnmber of second cycle
teachers-PES--( 1,493), the nmber of Ist cycle teachers-PCEG- (549), the difference between the,
weekdy hours required and the real taching time for each category of teachers -respectively (21h-
19h) and (18h-16h), the surplus of teachers is about 100. With an average salary of CFAF 1.4
million a year, Table 1 shows the cost savings on teacher salaries. The training of PES leads to
savings in trainig cogs estmaed on the assumptions that: (I) the 27 teachers would have been
trained at a unit cost per pupil-year at the PP of CFAF 1,185,200.
Measure 6: Cnoainm  at of stdnt subsid. his measure mean reducing suden subsidies. For
seconday education scholarhips budget wvl be mantaid at its 1993 level of FCFA 1.6 billion
during project duration. For higher education, this implies reducing scholarships budget and students'
subsidies from FCFA 5.5 billion to FCFA 3.5 billion in 1999/2000. Ihis would put a stop to the
rapidly increasiog trend in recee years in scholarships for higher education.



- 66 -
AN 9
Page 3 of 3
Table t - Cost Savinas Generated bv 8ectoral Adlustment Proaram
(in million CFAF)
SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM(
(IN FCFA MILLION)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   TOTAL
A. INCREASE OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
1. TEACHERS SALARIES                      310      621     931    1241    1552    4655
2. INSTRUCTIONAL NATERIALS                 80      160     240      320      400    1200
3. CLASSROOMS CONSTRUCTION                600      600     600      600      600    3000
SUB-TOTAL                                 990    1381    177       2161    2552    8855
B. EXTENDED USE OF DOUBLE-SHIFT (08B) ON
1. TEACHERS SALARIES                     -597    -313    -314    -313    .313   -1850
2. TRAINING OF NEW TEACHERS              -336    -176      -15                       -527
3. CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION               -2200   -1150    -100                       -3450
SUB-TOTAL                               -3133   -1639    -429    -313    .313   -5827
C. RESTRUCTURE PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING (IDS)
1. TTCs STAFF SALARIES                    -45     -45      -45      .45      45      225
2. PRIMARY TEACHERS SALARIES (a5x INAs)    -58    -116    -174    -232    -290    -870
SUB-TOTAL                                -103    -161    -219    -277    -335   -1095
D. RESTRUCTURE SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING (108)
1. TRAINING COSTS                        -106    -106    -106    -106    -106    -S30
SUB-TOTAL                                -106    -106    -106    -106    -106    -530
E. EFFICIENT USE OF GENERAL SECONDARY TEACHERS (1D8)
1. TEACHERS SALARIES                      -53    -106    -106    -106    -106    -477
2. TRAINING COSTS                         -90             -        -        .       -
SUB-TOTAL                                -143    -106    -106    -106    -106    -567
F. CONTAINMENT Of STUDENT SUBSIDIES (t8) b%
1. SCOLARSHIPS AND SUBSIDIES             -900   -1300   -1600   -2000   -2000   -78800
SUB-TOTAL                                -900   -1300   -1600   -2000   -2000   -7B00
NET EXPENDITURES                           -3395   -1931    -689    -6I1    -308   -6964
(A+4BC4D+E*F)
a' IDBs INDIRECT BWGETARY SAVINGS.
b% DB: DIRECT BUDGETARY SAVINGS.
FIGURES KAY NOT ADD DUE TO ROUDING.



-67
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
INFRASTRUCTURES SCOLAIR
FILIERE 1: REALISATION PAR ENTREPRISES
Principe: SEparation de (1) I'acquisition des materiaux d'importation, et (ii) la realisation des travaux.
Matdriaux: Fers a beton, Ipn, chevrons, contreplaquds, bac-alu, peinture, profiles pour menuiseries.
Quantie: Fournitures necessaires pour 2 ann6es correspondant 4 885 salles de classe, soit environ
FCFA 800 millions correspondant t US$ 2,6 millions.
Conditions: Importation hors-taxe.
Procedures: Appel d'offres international avec publication dans Business Developpement.
Livraison: Disponible dans les magasins du fournisseur autant que possible dans les chefs lieux de
DJpartements du Niger Oa rEception sera effectuEe par le  BCP et le  BIES en presence du
fournisseur).
Cendrier: Les livraisons seront effectuees tous les 6 mois, I dates convenues dans le dossier
d'appel d'offres (correspondant aux dEbuts des campagnes de travaux.
Paiements: Les materiaux seront payes aux fournisseurs au fur et A mesure de leur mise I disposition
aux entreprises.
Prix: Compte-tenu du calendrier de livraison, les prix seront revisables selon une formule de
revisions incluse dans le Dossier d'Appel d'Offres.
Main d'ouvre: Fourniture materiaux disponibles localement (ciment. planche, graviers, sable).
EntreDreneur: Entreprises agrEes au moins en CatEgorie 2 et disposant de locaux de stockage.
ProceduMr: Selection d'une ou plusiours entreprises prdsentes au niveau national, au terme d'une
consultation restreinte.
Foumiss: (ayant droit a beneficier d'exonerations douanieres pour l'acquisitionde matE x hors-
taxe).
Cdfre: Rdferences techniques (avoir rEalise des op*rations de taille equivalente), capacit6 financlre
(etre en mesure d'obtenir une caution bancaire.
Misas i: L'entreprise aura pour mission de rEaliser I'ensemble ou une partie de l'ensemble du
programme semestriel de salles de classe dans une rEgion. Toutefois, le Dossier de consultation - et
le marche qui s'ensuit - stipulent que l'entrepreneur ne pout reatiser par lui-m#me que au plus 6



- 68 -~
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
classes; les autres classes seront realisdes par sous-traitance I d'autres magons ou tacherons (3 ou 6
classes au plus par tAcheron).
Sous-trakants: Ils seront choisis par 1'entreprise selon des methodes commerciales dans une listo de
magons et de tAcherons qualifids et etablie par une Commission (Presidence DRER, membres:
repr6sentants, autorit6 administrative, service constructions Ministbre Equipement, Ministbre
Economie et Finces), compldtdes le cas echeant en accord avec 'entreprise.
UMt5W   : Les mat6riaux seront fournis I l'initiative du le BCP I 1'entrepreneur par le fournisseur
(operation reception-remise simultanEe). L'entrepreneur en prendra livraison dans les magasins du
fournisseur contre une caution bancaire de bonne fin d'un montant de 100 % de la valeur toutes
taxes des mat5riaux.
Dempte: lls sont etablis mensuellement par le BIES apres contrOle sur les differents sites et payes
par le BCP. Dans chaque rEgion, chaque campagne de construction donnera lieu & 4 ddcomptes, soit
pour 8 rEgions 32 paiements par semestres.
Recyigna: Elles sont prononcdes par le BIES en presence du representant de l'Education Nationale.
LER 2: REAIUSATION PAR COMMUNAUTES
jPrgje: La Communaute (APE) desireuse de creer ou d'agrandir son ecole est responsable de la
realisation de Ia (des) nouvelle(s) classe(s). Le Projet lui vient en appui en finangant un pourcentage
du cott de la construction sous certaines conditions definies dans la convention de cofinancement.
Convention de oofinancemnent
fraiable: Une convention ne peut etre passee enre une Communaut6 (APE) et le Projet qu'apres
que ia Communaute alt dtE declaree Eligible au benefice de Itappui du Projet (Annexe C.6).
Partenaires: La convention de cofinancement est signee par le president de I'APE pour la
communautd et par le Directeur des Projets Education.
SIeiqn: Blte doit e  sdlectionnee (a) au niveau d6centralise par un comite regional preside par
le DRER qui verifie la conformite de cette action avec la programmation retenue, et la conformite
au criteres Il'igibilite; et (b) au niveau central par la DEP, et engagement financier par la DPE.
Qkjg: L'objet de la convention est de ddfinir les engagements respectifs des deux partenaires dans
la construction d'une ou de plusieurs salles de classe. Olte est accompagnee des plans types et du
descriptif-quanitatif des travaux.
Montant: Le montant de la convention est egal au coat estime de la construction, deduction faite du
pourcentage d'apport propre requis de la Communaute.
Aort PErpr: 11 est Egal a 10 % du coat estime de la construction.



- 69 -
Page 3 of 4
Engagements respecs des partenaires
Communautd: La conunaut6 (APE) s'engage a: (a) construire une ou plusieurs salles de classe
conform6ment au plan type et au descriptif-quantitatif annexe a la convention; (b) suivre les
recommandations techniques et accapter le contrOle du BEES; (c) prdveuir le projet de la terminaison
d'une phase de travaux, une semaine a l'avance.
Le Projet s'eugage a: (i) verser sans delai I la Communaut6 (son reprEsentant) la subvention convenue
dans la convention, en quatre tranches, apres contr6le par le BIES de ta conformK6 des ouvrages
avec les spcifications techniques et les plans; et (ii) contr6ler sans ddlai les ouvrages. dbs leur
terminaison (maximum une semaine).
Ralsation des travaux
Ticheron: La commun_t6 est libre de faire travaDller le ticheron ou le macon de son choix.
L'experience (verifiable dans d'autres pays) montre que l'Association des Parents d'Eleves choisit,
pour construire son dcole, un macon en qui elle a confiance et qu'elle reconnait techniquement.
Amppr    : La communautd est libre de materialiser son apport comme elle l1entend, sous forme
financiere, en nature (parpaings, materiaux) ou en travail (transport des materiaux, main d'oeuvre
non qualifiee, moulage des briques). La structure du co8t de la classe montre que, si elle le desire
et eorganise en consequence, I'apport de la communaute peut 8tre totalement non monetaire.
Assistance aux CoMmunauMns: Le BIES apportera un appui technique a la communautE sous forme
de (i) conseils techniques, (ii) guide de la construction, (iii) contrat type thcherons, (iv) aide A
I'organisation du chantier en fonction de I' apport propre de la Communaute si celui-ci n'est pas
fnancier.
LES CRfftRb   D'ELIGIBUITE ET DE PRIoRU TE
Pour beneficier de travaux de construction de classes dans le cadre du projet de ddveloppement de
1'enseignement de base la requete doit remplir les conditions suivantes:
Criteres instfinonnels: V'cole doit Wtre reconnue ou autorisee par le MEN/ES/R, et doit etre
representee par une APE ou une collectivite organis6e officiellement reconnue par l'autorite
locale.
-Carte scolaire:
o     Population comprise entre 1.000 et 2.000 hts dans un rayon de 5 km pour 3 classes:
*     Population de plus de 2000 hts dans un rayon de 5 km pour 6 classes,
o     Critbres de priorite:
*     Les zones ot le taux de scolarisation est infErieur a 35 % sont consid*reos 'zm
Frioritairesn.



-70-                                AN X 10
Page 4 of 4
*     Les ecoles existantes oti la tendance de scolarisation des files est en croissauce (au moins
5% au cours des deux dernieres annees) sont considerees Idcolerritaim',
*     Les ecoles I creer qui adoptent des mesures de promotion de la scolarisation des files
sont considdrdes "ecoles prioritaires'.
Ctres Physiques:
*     DisponibilitE d'un terrain jugE appropri6.
*      Existence d'eau potable (forages, puits, etc ... ), d'accbs facile pour l'ecole et situee dans
un rayon n'exc6dant pas 500 m1tes,
*     Disponibili6 d'un local de stocage, jug6 acceptable, de fournitures scolaires et I ou de
vivres pour les cantines scolaires.
Caoacite contributive:
*     Engagement de l'APE ou de la collectivite organis6e I contrbuer a hauteur de 10 % du
co-t des travaux de construction en espece ou en nature, b Il'exeption des zones ou des
coles remplissant les criteres de priorite d6finis ci-dessus, et de l'APE ou la collectivite
ayant pris en charge, une contribution equivalente, sous forme de constructions parallbles
(latrines avec bloc sdpar6 pour les files, cl8ture, logement de mattre, local de stockage),
ou le salaire d'un ou plusieurs enseignants:
*     Existence d'une entit6 morale et juridique pour assurer la mattrise d'ouvrage (uniquement
pour la FILIERE N°2: realisation par les communaut6s).
Doss! e:
*     Constitution des dossiers par l'APE ou la collectivit6 organisee,
*     S6lection des requetes par un comite local preside par la Direction Regionale de l'Educa-
tion et de la Recherche (DRER).
*     Approbation des requtes par la Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation (D.E.P).
*     Engagement financier par la Direction des Projets Education (DPE).
*     Signature d'un protocole d'accord entre l'APE ou la collectivit6 organisde et la DPE.



- 71 -
Page 1 of S
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT UIYRIJD)
F'ORMATION DES MAfTRES
1.      Les doannes concernant les effectifs et les possibilites d'accueil des Ecoles normales sont
rassemblees dans le tableau ci-aprts:
__MI            00550           TAHOUA          ZNDER        TOTAUX
cwaeit6                     13              10              10             20 dont      43
nmbre de saltes e10 dis-
Effect. si 35               455             350            .350             350         I50
par   ctasse__                 _ _  _ _ __                                   _ _ _  _   __  _  _ _ _
Sortie juin 93                                                                         i
IA              0               279            174              116       1569
I              0                 0            0                94           94663
Effectif nov-
.93                         10 IA                                           18 I
section sp6c.               (2)                                              (2)
(2)
IA        15 red.        19 red.         2 red.          4 red.       40 red.
l&re                        +300 (3)       +103 (3)        +150 (3)        +130 (3)    +680 (3)
ann6e                                                                       1 red.
SAC                      40 (3)                          +80 (3)      122
26m0
ann6e             IA        210            246              159            207          822
Source : donn6es de la DEPD.
Notes:  (1)     Dix classes de t16cole normate de Zinder sont occup6es par un CEG de la localit6.
(2)     It s'agit de maitres qui suivent une formation continue pendant I an.
(3)     Ce recrutement est pr6vu sur concours La rentr6e de ces eteves ayant lieu en Janvier.
Cette mesure est destinee a patlier le manque de recrutemnent dO A "t'ann6e blanche.
B: Les ateliers int5grEs de formation continue:
2.      La mise en oeuvre d'une formation decentralisee pres du lieu de travail des personnels A
former repond a des impdratifs d'efficacitd mais aussi d'economie: il est souvent moins onereux de
doplacer un petit nombre d'animateurs que de regrouper a distance les personnels I former. La
conduite de ces ateliers de base pourrait contribuer a l'integration des secteurs pedagogiques et
d'animnation du milieu, en rassemblant pour des travaux en commurn des matres, des parents, des
responsables des APE et des villages, des ONG, les reprdsentants des syndicats sur des problemati-
ques divenes telles, par exemple, celles de la gestion financiere des APE, de la conduite des classes
'multigrades"ou double flux, de lI'&ucation environnementale, de la scolarisation des filles, de
l'easeignement de la lecture, de l'dducation sanitaire, de la construction et de l'entretien des classes,



-72-                              AN           11
Page 2 of 5
des cantines scolaires etc.. Cette diversih de contous devrakt conduire I la formation de pets
gupes (25 t 30 pesonaes maximum), constituds en fonction de lobjectif, et   la ddsignation
d'an _mt    approprids, cette designation pouvant intervenir au sein de Conseils depantmentaux et
t'adi em   de Foraion continEs. En outre la technique de formation par ateliers itg
permet de regrouper des catEgories diffErents de formateurs (Encadreurs de }'ENS, Professeurs
d'ENI, Inspocteurs, conseillers Pedagogiques, Directeurs d'ecoles ) pour des actions centrdEs sur la
pratique. Les ENI participeront I la mise en oeuvre d'ateliers de formation continue ( sous la
responsabilite des IEPD) ingrt I des niveaux tres decentralisds diffErentes catdgories d'acteurs de
I'Aducation: maltres, parents, CPEN, IEPD, PEN, DEN ...pour des travaux en commun, condukst
I des perfcton     s et I des initiatives exprimables en termes de projets locaux. Ces "ateliers
iers' ne devraient jamais rassembler plus de 25 f 30 participants, -et Wre conduits selon une
mfthodologie active. Le projet supporte l'octroi de mGyens (ivres de rEfErences, peti matEriels) pour
lo abactionnoment de ces ateliers qui correspondront au 500 cellules d'animation pddagogiques. 'octroi
des moyens nEssaires pourrait Wes envisage. L'equipe nationale d'animation-formation des mantes
et de leurs for_ates (4 ou 5 ani sateus expdrimentEs et de haut niveau), sera mise en place pour
l'amnne 94-95. Cette cellule sera hergEe A I'ENS et sera utilement soutenue par un Conseil National
de la Formation des Mattres et de leurs Formateurs prdside par le Ministre ou par son repr6sentant.
Ce Conseil comprendrait au niveau le plus e1ev6 la DEPD, I'INDRAP et l'ENS. Les professeurs
d'ENI consacreront par trimestre 120 heures de cours I l'Ecole Normale et 60 heures pour la
supri on des eleves- mattres en stage et pour la partication aux activites de formation continue.
C. La formation Idtiae
3.    2=1uadon actu,elle. La formation initale actuellement donnee est une formation f dominante
thEorique. Les eaments a la pratique du metier sont I la fois insuffisants en duree, mal r0partis,
et disjoinbs de a formation professionnelle gEnErale. Les stages de sensibilisation sont peu productifs.
Fonder les enseignements professionnels sur lPexpErience vecue des futurs mattres lors des stages
impliquequo ces stagiaires soient vus I l'oeuvre. II est donc important qu'un Professeur d'EN en
vsite chawn d'eux individuellement an moins deux fois pendant sa formation initiale.
4.    Nouvelle          . Une formation professionnelle EquilibrEe doit consacrer an moins 30%
de sa duree I des exercices en situation professionnelle. La structure developpee comporte 20
semaines de stages ou de recherches sur le terain sur 60 demandes de formation.
5.    La duree des stages de sensibilisation est ramenEe A une semaine en debut de premiere annee.
Cette premitre prise de contact avec la profession a pour objet d'amorcer un changement d'attitude
de la part des normaliens: ils ne sont plus des eleves mais de futurs mattres en situation de devoir se
former I l'exercice d'un mEtier.
6.    Les stages de pratique guidee sont avances I la premitre annde, afin de permettre la mise en
oeuvre d'une mthodologie de formation qui fonde les renforcements disciplinairesprofessionnels sur
l'exploitation du vecu des stages.
7.    Au nombre de quawe, les stages d'observation out pour objectif de permete une reetle Etude
du milieu professionmel, mais aussi de son environnement, par la conduite d'enquaes sur differAnts
thfmes: I'Ecole dans le village, la vie economique et sociale de ce village, le rBle des associations de
parents d'Oebves, etc.. Ces thWmes pourront conduire b Ia redaction individuelle ou collective de
monographie ou de mEmoires qui seront conserves et exploitEs dam l'Etablissement. Le stage en
responsabilitE rellie du normalien est prevu au dEbut de la 2eme annee de formation.



-73                              ANNEX 11
Page 3 of S
8.    Un stage en responsabilit6 relle - le normalien dolt Ote seul dans la classe - est prew au
debut de la 2eme aune.. Cette mise en responsabilitd pora avantageusement so realiser par
permutation avec le$ ensega    titulaires des classes correspondantes - notamment des  situtus-
adjoints, ou des maitres suppleants - qui seraient repris I I-EN en formation continue.
D. L'ateller pdaggue - Exemple 1: LVexploltatlon d'u  le o d'asa
9.    Objectit Pesenter une action de formation d'E1ves-mattes conduite selon une demarche
renovde, et faire comprendre celto dEmarche I un groupe de formateurs de mltres.
10.   Parti     : () Un groupe d'tleves de l'ecole primaire; (ii) un groupe d'Eleves-mattes en
formation, l'un d'entre eux Eamt charge de conduire une sequence de classe avec les elhves; (iii) un
groupe de formau  de matme de l'Ecole normale; (iv) un petit groupe d'animateus nationaux
hlatement qualifids, appartenant & 1'Eqipe du Dlireur de la Formation et de l'Action pedagogique,
ou enseignant & lISSED. Soit, au total, quatre catEgories diffErentes de participants, correspondant
aux quate niveaux de cat atelier.
11. Premibre hM: (i) I'Elgve-matmre dirigesa sequence de classe; (U les lhves de l'ecole etant
paris, un animateu national conduit un travai de groupe avec les normaiens. Objecti: realiser une
anayse critique du travail presente; C(i) en rEponse, I'anmateur present au groupe des t51eves-
matres quelques elements de reprise. Cette premiere phase peut 8tre traduite par le schema suivant:
Les format- --T---- - ---r              en groupe  ||  Sequence de
assistent en sil'nce                                        classe
12.   Deuxieme (ohas   i) les formateurs de P'EN qui ont assiste en silence au deroulement de la
premiere phase, sont invitEs, lors d'un tral de groupe conduit par un animateur nationale, a expri-
met leurs avis: quelles sont les caractEistiques principales de cette demarche? Quelles sont les
difficultes qui doivent tre surmorntes pour I'appliquer? Comment deduire, I partir du vecu de cete
action, une programmation d'enseignements?  (i) reprise: les animatus apportent aux formaters les
Eldments de contewu qui leur semblent necessaires. Cette deuxibme phase peut Otte traduite par les
shdmas suivats:



- 74 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
DISTRIBUTION DES SrAGES DURANT LA FORMATION
13.   La grille suivante est etablie t partir de la formation en deux ans des Instituteurs-adjoints (60
semaines).
PRMER ANNE                                                             DEUXM ANNEE
TI                                             T4                m
S
R
0~~~~~~~~~~
12    ____                               .TI
D       _ _ _ __ _ _ ____                                       0
p
1,                                               T6                0
LEgende: S: Stage de seasibilisadlow 0: Stage d'observation; P: stage de pratique guidEe; R: stage
en responsabilit; TI, T2, T3: trim, s



- 75                              ANNEX -1
Page 5 of 5
FI  Sequence de classs I       Travail en groupe                   Reprise
F. L'atelier p6dagogique. Exemple 2: L'exploltation d'un stage.
14.   Qebjt: Presenter aux formateurs de maltres un autre exemple d'action de formation afin
de les mettre en mesure d'appliquer une dEmarche renov6e dans un contexte plus complexe que celui
de Pexemple 1.
15.    MPag=a: (i) un groupe d'Oves-mailres revenant d'un stage; (ii) Un groupe de formateu
de l'Ecole normale; (ii) deux ou trois animateurs nationaux, chargE d'animer les differeates phases
de lopEration.
16.   Phase 1: Un animateur national conduit un travail de groupe avec les normaliens afin de les
amener I exprimer les difficultes rencontrdes sur- le terrain des stages. L'animateur distribue la
parole, prend des notes, fait de temps en temps un renvoi de synthese, en s'abstenant d'ajouter
quelque element de contenu que ce soit. L'animateur enonce uue svnthese finale qui regroupe les
poimts principaux.
17.   Phase 2: L'animateur national conduit un travail de groupe avec les formateurs de maItres -
qui sont restEs sioencieux jusqu'ici-, avec pour objectif de d0gager les elements de probldmatique
qu'ils ont constats lora de Iurs visites sur le teain, et qui n'ont pas ete releve par les stagiaires.
Distribution de la parole, synthises intermediaires et synthese finale. Le groupe Elabore un ou plu-
sieurs projets de formation rdpondant aux difficultes constatees. Cos deux phases peuvent Wtre
traduite par le schema suivant:
Travail de groupe avec les stagiaires
Les fornater                   Travail en groupe des formateurs    Projet
assistant 
18.   Ease 3: (i) Seance pleniere regroupant les stagiaires et les formateurs, animee par I'anima-
teur national. Objet: communication des constats du groupe des formateurs intOgrant, rectifiant et
complEant ceux exprimds par les stagiaires lors de la phase 1, et communication des projets de
travail. Le schema de cette action devient:
Phase 3
Vers la mise
Phase 1 ===>                                 Reunion pIE-    DEbat        en oeuvre
niere     Adoption des  = >
Phase2                                                       pr= >  projets



-76-                            ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
REPUBIJC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IPROJECT (HYBRID)
FXIHE TECHNIQUE
MANUEIS SCOLAIRES
Stuation actuelle
1.    Dans le cadre du Projet Education nI JINDRAP a produit 393,400 livres d'eleves dam cinq
sujets (ectue, mathematiques, eaudo du milieu et histoire et g6ographie), 480.000 cahiers dexercice
atematiques pour les deux premiers niveaux du primaire, et 12.000 guides du maitre. Cette
distribution de manuel a permis d'atteindre des ratios livres/6leves un ratio de 2 pour l'ann6e 1992/93
en lecture pour les CP2, CE1, et CE2, en mathmatiques pour le CE1. Cependant, il existe un livre
de mathmatiques et de lecture pour en moyeane huit eleves au CMI et au Cm2. Le projet a aussi
contribuC au renforcement des caparites de l'INDRAP par la formation de 46 agents et la renovation
des locaux et la mise I disposition d'Equipements.
2.    La mise en oeuvre de la composante a rencontre plusieurs difficult6s:
ExEution: En cinq ans lI'stitut n'a pas 6t6 en mesure de produire l'ensemble des manuels
programmes (environ un million) du fait que les cadres de l'INDRAP n'etaent pas singulierement
prEpares I la redaction de manuels, et la situation de fonctionnaires redacteurs ne s'est pas avere coOt-
efficace;
Copyright: l'Instut nest pas exclusivement proprietaire du copyright.
Distibution: La distribution des manuels aux ecoles I comU du retard du fait de l'entreposage au
nieau de la capital a partir d'ou les collisages devaient tre  is et du. fait aussi d'une absence de
cladficaion des responsabiites aux niveau des structures du MEN.
StratEgie pour e Projet Education de Base.
3.      aration  des manuscrits. Les manuscrits ne seront plus prdpares par des redacteurs
fonctionnaires domicilies I l'INDRAP. LINDRAP prdparera we consuition en vue d'acheter des
manuscrits. Cette consultation frea lobjet d'appels doffre lanceds localement pour chaque titre. Les
auteurs dont les mansit seront retenus recevront une rEmunEration forfaitaire pour le rachat des
manrts et en consdquence renonceront de fait amx droits dauteurs qui deviendront la propriete
exclusive du Minist?re de lEducation Nationale. L'INDRAP developpera une capacit6 en matiere
dEvaluation des manscrits at des livres, de preparation de dossier de consultation. Le comitE du
livre qui domprendra des spEcialistes de discipline n'appartenant pas I I'INDRAP procddera b la
sElection des manuscrits et a la validation des livres une fois Edites. L'INDRAP assurera le secrEtariat
du comit6 du livre. Pour dhvelopper la capacite de I'INDRAP a jouer son nouveau r6le la cellule
d'evaluation de l'INDRAP recevra in situ une formation A cot effet.
4.    Edition et Impression des manuels exisns. Toutes les activitds d'edition et d'impression
des nouveau manuels, ou de rsimpression des manuals qui avaient EtE produits par l'INDRAP seont
apres appel d'offra inernational. Au cas ou des retards seront observes damn la production des



_77-                               ANNEX12
Page 2 of 3
nouveaux manuels, les titres concernms seront acquis sur le marche international aprbs appel d'offre
in ational base sur des criteres d'evaluation pedagogique et de prix.
5. S    isdutio. Les manuels avant livraison au Niger, feront l'objet de collisages par inspections
et par 6coles. Les manuels ne seront plus entreposes au niveau central a Niamey mais directement
livrds aux Inspections. La prestation sera payes aprbs conformit4 de la livraison atteste par le comite
de gestion des manuels instaur6 au riveau de l'Inspection et comprenant les representants des parents
d'eIeves, des enseignants et de l'inspection. Dana les quinzejours qui suivent la livraison des livres
aux Inspections, ces livres doivent Wtre enleves des inspections et distribues aux ecoles grfce aux
transporteurs prives selectionnes apres appel d'offre publie localement. II sera cree un comite de
gesdon des manuels scolaires au niveau-de chaque Ecole comprenant les enseignats et les parents
d'eleves. Ces comit6s seront responsable de la gestion des manuels, de la mise en oeuvre de la
politique de conservation et de renouvellement des manuels. Les quantites de livres attendues au
niveau des inspections et des ecoles seront largement communiquees aux differents comites de gestion
des manuels pour qu'au moment des livraisons ces dermiers puissent faire une contrdle de conformite
valable.
6.    a bilites  et             Tous les aspects relatifa la passation des marches relevement
de a responsabilit6 de la Direction des Projets. Tous les aspects pedagogiques sont geres par
l'INDRAP en collaboration Etoite avec la DEPD et sous l'autorite du comite du livre. Afin de
pouvoir g*rer la mise en oeuvre de cette composante et de pouvoir procdder aux ajustements anssi
bien du point de vue p6dagogique que du point de vue matEriel, il sera mis en place un dispositif de
suivi et d'evaluation:
(a)    Au niveau local: L'operation consisterait, en collaboration avec l'inspection et l'dcole
I une collecte des donnees au niveau local. Une synthese serait faite et transmise a
la Direction REgionale de l'Education (DRE);
(b)    Au niveau departemental: La DRE ferait une synthbse des differentes donnees de la
circonscription et son rapport sera transmis a la DEPD, I I'INDRAP. Au niveau
DRE, des mesures correctives seront deja prises.
(c)    Au niveau central: L'Unit6 d'evaluation de l'INDRAP procederait chaque annee &
I'evaluation de l'impact des formations donndes en vue de leur amElioration. Ce
service en collaboration avc/c 1'ENS, la DEPD, la Direction des projets, analyserait
les diff6rents rapports des DRE et ferait des propositions consequentes. Ces
propositions portersient sur l'usage pedagogique des manuels par les maltres et les
-leves, la gestion et le contrOle des stocks, et I'-a  de conservation des manuels
distribues. Une 6valuation approfondie porterait tous les deux ans sur un 6chamillon
repr6setatif d'ecoles selon les critbres suivants: 30 Ecoles urbaines, 30 dcoles
rurales, 5 dcoles de petites taUles, 5 dcoles de grandes taBles, 10 dcoles d'acces
difficile.



NWAUELS A ACQUERIR DAMS LE CADRE DU PROJET EDUCAtOIN III
UIVEAU  EFFECTIFS a/ RATIO  BESOINS b/   BESOINS   STOCK C/      QSUATITE A                QtIUTITE
(TITRES/ DE OASE    REELS    OISPN1JLE        REINPRINER               A PRODWIE
ELEVES)           (TITRES +35O)         LIYRES EXEC. ATH JWIDES LIVRES GUIDES LANG. MAT.
cP1           121,360
Lecture                      1   121,360     163,836                                   163.800             8,600
caLcul                       1   530,000     715,500   80,000           640.000 3,000                      8,600
Exer.lang                                                                                                  8.600
CP2           112,973
Lecture                      1   112,973     152,514   26,000 126,500                                      8,300
Calcul                       1   501,000     676,350   80,000           560,000 3,000                      8,300
Exeric. ang                                                                                                8,300
CEI           107,344
Lecture                      1   107,344     144,914   26,000 119,000                                      8,300
Lanw.                      0.5    53,672      72,457                                   72.000  3.000       8,300
Calcut                     0.5    53,672      72,457   22,750 50,000            3,000                      8,300
Et. milieu                 0.5    53,672      72,457   26,000 47,000
CEZ            91,994
Lecture                      1    91,994     124,192   22,750 101,500
Lang.                      0.5    45,997      62,096                                   62,000  3,000
Caleul                     0.5    45,997      62,096   22,750 40,000            3,000
Et. Milieu                 0.5    45,997      62,096   26,000 36,000
CHI            83,940
Lecture                      1    83,940     113,319                                  114,000
Lng                        0.5    41,970      56,660                                   57,000  3,000
Celcut                     0.5    41,970      56,660                                   57,000  3,000
Sciences                   0.5    41,970      56,660   26,000 31,000                   72,000
Hist.geo                   0.5    41,970      56,660   26,000 29,000
CM2            76,512
Lecture                      1    76,512     103,291                                   103,000
Le"^:Ve                    0.5    38,256      51,646                                   52,000  3,000
calcul                    .0.5    38,256      51,646                                   52,000  3,000
Sciences                   0.5    38,256      51,646   22,750 30,000                   67,000
Nist.                      0.5    38,256      51,646                                   52,000
¢eo.                       0.5    38,256      51,646                                   52,000
TOTAL         594,123           2, m,290   3,082,42  407,000 610,000  1,200,000 12,000 975,800 18,U00      75,600
w      Ef$Wi VW Mm pO*' pOe 11200 V .mrdo;t  aOe,iomt Mm to VW to .e do pet.
L O*m Cl . wCU2; em S. pM m CM to aiw    de  m  S pa.. dam pm Is CMatisP40eeCE m   m  Ses  devA"a1pe   pm em.    t Co) Mi. CUw.
.1     Ap do.a,eqa deId _ue .dsI.PeI t,me.  "pe.mve.e i.emo.  o.k.do mso stmIa



EXPFIN.XLS
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (4YBRID)
E      _pnlur Accouts by Fnanciers
(USS MO)
KFW          NOIWAY            IDA        The Govenwnet  Conunltlei         Total                     (Ecd.   Dult &
Amount   %    Anount   %        min    %    Amount   %   Amount  %    Amount   %   For.Exch.  T4ase)   Taxes
L Iwesdnent Coss
A. Ditrd ctIpot                                  -   2A00.0  140   17,200.0  86.0          -                      20.0000  26.2   20,000.0 
I. Cih Wois
Contrtio Conrdact                   4,9762  412               -    4,331.7  35.9    2,774.1  23.0     -         12,082.  15.9    8,479.3    3,602.6
GmantsforSchwolCortndon                     -                       2,208.6  90.0      0.0    -   245.4  10.0    2,454.0  3.2    1,722.0     731)
Imipoted Consrucin Matedals         2,943.9  57.0        -    -          -    .    2,219.3  43.0                 5,163.2  6.    3,625.1    1,638.0
Subtotal CMi rWouts                   7,920.1  40.2        -         6,5402  332    4,993.3  25.3  246.4  1.2   19,899.1  25.8   13,826    56,872.6
C. Goods
Funiture                            2,23.3  31.6         -          3,818.5  52.8    1,124.7  15.6    -    -    7,226.6  9.5    6,233.6      993.0       -
Offio Eqipmn wand Supples                      -         -    *      428.4 100.0       0.0            -           428.4  0.6      427A         1.0
VehesMdotorcyc                           -    .          -    -    1,959.0 100.0         *    *       .    -    1,969.0   2.6    1,959.0
Tebooks                                        -   2073.0  35.4    3,790.9  64.6              *       -    -    5,863.9  7.7    5,863.9
PedagogWical Mtdeas                         -       -         -    1,373.8  19.8    5,662.5  80.2          -    6,936.3  9.1    6,936.3
#dIndtIs                                  -    .         -    -      330.4 100.0         -            -    -      330.4  0.4      3304          *        -
Subtotd Goods                         2,283.3  10.0   2,073.0  9.1   11,701.0  51A    6,6872  29.4           -   22,744.5  29.8   21,7605      9940        -
a. Speciaists Services                                                                                                                                          .
DeslgupevlsonM      .                    -               -    -      228.8 100.0            -     -        -      228.8  0.3       64.7      164.1
Speciatfese(intl)                        *    *          -    -    1,188.0 100.0              -       -    *    1,186.0  1.6    1,186Q0
specarft Sanes (cal)                     -               -           4275 100.0                      -    -      427.5  0.6                 42?5
Subtotal SpecIalsts Servics                -                          1 -    1,842.3 100.0      -       -    -    1,842.3  2.4    1,250.6      591.6
L Trainig
Feoships                                 -    -          -           260.5 100.0         -    -       -    *      260.5  0.3      248.1       12.3       -
Loal Workshop                            -    -                      445 100.0           -    -       -    -      4545   0.6      1285       325.9
Local Trabinng                           -    -          -    -    1,06;Z6 100.0         -    -       -    -    1062.6   1.4         *    1,062.6       -
Subtotal Training                                                     im.5 100.0           -    -       -    -    1,777    2.3      376.7    1,400.8
F. Funds for Gkis Educaton                       -         -    -      2603 100.0          -    -       -    -      260.3  0.3          .      260.3       -
Total Invesinent Costs                 10,23.4  15.4   4,873.0  7.3   39,321.3  59.3   11,680.6  17.6  245.4  0.4   66,323.7  87.0   57,204.3   9,119.4
n. Recurrent Costs
AL MlscelaoS
Teschers Siae                             *    -         *    .          .          7,798.1 100.0     -    *    7,798.1  102               7,798.1
OpeatiOn    M     an                      -    -         -    -    1,2t7.8 100.0       0.0    -       .    .    1,217.8  1.6      965.3      252.5
Ove0m for Doub*es1fl Teaching                                 -      w0   1o-    *                                600.8  0.8                 600.8
Nom.CM Servns Saly                          -            -    -      217.4 100.0              -       -           217.4  0.3                 217.4
TraveAlOwanee-                                 -                      65.0 100.0         -                         66.0  0.1          -       65.0
rotalRecurrentCosts                                                     2,101.0  21.2    7,798.1  78.8 6             9,899.1  13.0    965.3    8,933.9       -
TotlW DIsbsent                          10,203.4  13.4   4,873.0  6.4   41,422.3  54.3   19,478.7  25.6  245.4  0.3   76,222.8 100.0  56,169.6   18,053.2
o b



SUMCOM.XLS
NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (fYDRI                                                                                    T %Total
Cavmnon tsPoed cad Costwyry                           IFCFA '0M0)                                 )            Fomign  Sas
Local      Fo            Tota       Local    Foei         Totdal   EXC     C_t
A. Structrlf Reforim Progr
ied import                           _                11,94D.000   t11940,000             20,000.0   20,000.0    100      29
Stal  Structural Refolm POa                             11,940,000   11,940,000        -   20,000,0   20,000.0     100     29
IL bInqwvl Access wd Quality of PrIay E
Constructlon Nd RehabIlto Classroom       7,270,125    8,898,283   16,168,408   12,177.8   14,905.0   27,082.8   565      39
Glut Educan Pgamn                           148,407     408,173      W68,80      248.6      683.7      9323       73       1
Pre-mnn4enie Teache ThrIng Pmgran         1,133,023    2,3456349    3,478,372    1,897    3S,928.6    6,82A4      67      8
Teidboedc                                        *      ,296,694    6,295,694        -   10,545.6   10,545.6     100      1S
G6UUMCEFIRu'    Ro-Nutrlwnt                  5,738      190,179      195,918       9.6      318.6      3282       97       -
Subtldrvng Acces and QualIty of Prbn        857,293   18,137,679   26,694,972   14,333.8   30,381.4   44,7152       68      65
C. Managelme of the Educaton System
MOE Cpaity                                  216,438     843,603    1,060,039     382.5    1,413.1    1,775.8      80       3
Decent    de   Plan   Vand Manam            247,129     803,769    1,060,896     414.0    1,346.3    1,760.3      78       3
Preparg a Deveopment Pln for KHo Educa      66,023      161,411      227,434     110.6      270.4      381.0      71       1
Subtotal Managemerd of te Educdaon  Syste    529.W88    1,808,783    2338.371      887.1    3,029.8    3,9169       77      6
TotdBASEUNECOSTS                            9,086,681   31,886,462   40,973,343   15,220.9   53,411.2   68,621      78    100
Physicl Co ang es                          252,734    1,341,617    1,594,352     423.3    2,247.3    2,670.6      84       4
Prke cntIerIes                            1,438,167    1.499.146    2,937,312    2,409.0    2,511.1    4,920.1    51      7                                 I
Total PROJECTCOSTS                          10,777,783   34,727,224   46,505,007   18,053.2   68,169.6   76,22.8    76    111                                 OD
It
O W



SUMF.XAS
NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (H                                                                                   %    %Total
Expendiue Accounts Projecd Cost Saunny                   IFCFA oe00                         (USS oOO)             Foen   Oass
Local      Foren        - Total      Local    Foreign     Totl   Exchange Cods
L Invesm   Costs
A.L Dietpost                                        -   11,940,000   11,940,00          -   20,000.0   2D,000.0     100     29
IL CllWbo                                                           ' 
ConhnctionC Cmracts                       1,512.456    4,362.927    5,675.383    2,533.4    7,308.1    9,84tS     74      14
Gtants for S*ool Co_suto                    292,842      844.751    1.137,593     490.5    1,,15.0    1,905.5     74       3
lIpotd  Constructkn Mtwieal                 664,224    1,916,063    2,680,287    1,112.6    3,209.5    4,322.1    74       6
Sublal CIU Wors                             2,469,522    7,123,741    9,593,263    4,136.6   11,9326    16,069.1     74     23
C. Goods
Fumer                                       403,671    3.105,213    3.S08,6B4     676.2    5,201A     5,877.5     88       9
off" eEquw *t  dSupess                         449       221,167     221.616        0.8      370.5      3712      100      1
Veclesdorcycles                                   -    1,005,609    1,005,609              1,684.4    1,684.4     100      2
Teftoks                                           -    2,02,226    2,952,22           .    4,945.1    4,946.1     100      7
Peda;ogical Materials                             -    4,017,370    4,017,370         -    6,729.3    6,729.3     100     10
Mlcronutdene                                     _-      164430      164,430          -      275.4      275.4     10o
Subtotal Goods                                404,120   11,466,016   11,870,136     676.9   19,206.1   19,883.0      97     29
D. Specdaits ervices
DespndslwVMA .                               72,925       35,061     107,986      122.2       58.7     180.9       32
SpecifteslSewvkces(inr                            *      624,231     624,231          -    t1,0456    1,04A6      100      2
Specialists Sevices (Loca)                  182S606           -      182,606      305.9                30.9                 -
Subtotal SpeclistsSevices                     256,530      659,291     914,821      428.0    1,104.3    1,532.4      72      2                            t
&:. Trainin
Feflowshp                                     5,3e6      131,406     136,791        9.0      220.1     229.1       96
LocalWorks5hops                             140,399      64,516      204,915      2352       108.1     343.2       31      I
Lcal Tri                                    455,381           -      455,381      762.8                762.8        -      1
Subtotal Training                             601,165      195,922     797,087    1,007.0      328.2    1,3352       25      2
F. Fuxbtor Gits Education                     114.444           -      114-444      191.7                191.7
Tota investmnt Costs                          3,844,781   31,384,970   35,229,751    6,440.2   52,571.1   69,011.3     89     a8
U. Recurmt Costa
A. Mlaclewleous
Teachers Salades                          4,655,480           -    4,655,480    7,796.1          *    7,798.1               11
Operon and MaIntenae                        107,085      501,492     608,5        179.4      840.0    1,019.4      82       1
Ortime for Double.    Teacn                 358,C2            -      358,662      600.8          *      600.        -       I
Non-Cldl Servants Sgay                       93,306                   93.306      156.3          -      156.3
TrAeel Alowanco                              2758                     27,568       46.2          -       462                -
Totd Recurrent Codss                          5,242100       501,492    5,743,592    8,780.7     840.0    9,620.8       9      14
Tol BASEUNE COSTS                              9,086,881    31886,462   40,973,343   15,220.9   53,411.2   68,632.1    78    100
Physal Contingencies                          252,734    1,341,617    1,594,352     423.3    2,247.3    2,670.6      84      4
PriceConftnence                              1,438,167    1,499,146    2,937.312    2,409.0    2,511.1    4,9Q0.1    61      7
ToW PROJECT COSTS                             10,777,783    34,727,224   45,506,007   18,0532   68,169.6   76222.8     76    111
Iw



EXCMTFXS
e         Access and Qual     ry Education         Management otthe Education Systemn
Suctral                            Pre-and                                                  Preparng a
Refom     Consudtion             In-servico                                   Decentazed Development
Progra        and        Glds    Teachws                                         Sector      Plan for
Direct   Rehabiltaton  Educaion  Trainng            GovINICEFIun   MOE    Planning and    Hlgher
Import    Classrooms   P a    Program   Texdbooks McNutrients  Capacity  Managemln  EducaHon    Total
L nvesment Costs
A. Diect Impot                            20,000.0            -         -                                                                         20,000.0
B. Cnvil Wors
Coucton Conat                                 -        9235.7         -    129.3           -                               1,549                12,082.0
Gants for School ConstrUtion                  -        2,454.0        *2454.0
lnpoted Consbuction Matedsh                   -        5,163.2                             -                  -           -           -          5,163.2
Subtoa CW Wors                                  -       16,852.8        -    1,296.3         -              -        *       1,549.9          .   19,699.1
C. Goods
Furt                                          -        6.137.0              649.3          *              -        -         440.2               7,226.5
OffileEqlpentandSuppbs                        -           30.2     35.0      124.3                        -    137.5          49.8       51.6     428.4
Vdls#uMtcybses                                -           87.3     26.8   1,609.5                         -    208.7            -        26.8    1,959.0
Textbooks                                     -             -         -               5,863.9             *        ,            ,                5,83.9
Pedagogkal Maters                             -             -    6514        72.4 A    ,562.5             -        -            -           -    6,936.3
Mlcraunrtdents       -                                           -          ~~~~~~       ~      ~     ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~330.4  -  . 330.4
Subtol Goods                                             6,254.5    713.2    3,105.4   11,426.4         330.4    346.2         490.0       78.4   22,744.5
D. Specialis Sevices
DesSiunManagt.                                              -         -      228.8                            -                             -     228.8
Specalsts Serices (Intl                       -           80.8     83.6         -       41.3              -    839.3             -      141.1    1,186.0
Specialists Sevices (Local)                              324.7     11.2         -          ..                    40.6            -50.9             427.5
Subtal Specialis Services                                  405.5     94.8      228.8      41.3                    879.9                   192.0    1,842.3
L Trainig
FeffowWps                                     -           19.8        -       78.3         -                    162.3                       *      260.5
Local Wokshops                                *             -       6.4      109.6         -              -    237.5          43.4       57.5      464.5
Local Trainig                                 -            4.0        -      9325          -              -    113.1          13.0               1,062.6
Subtotal Traning                                -           23.8      6.4    1,120.4         -                    512.9         56.4       67.5    1,777.5
F. Funds fbr Gi* Educon                                       -    260.3                     -                       -            *           -     260.3
Totallnvestme  Costs                        20,000.0      23,536.7   1,074.8    5,751.0   11,467.6        330.4   1,739.0      2,096A       327.8   66,323.7
L. Recurrntd Costs
A. Mk¢elieanous
Techesm Sabres                                -        7,798.1        -                                                                          7 -  -  -  7,798.1
OpeationdMtan                                 -           40.4     10.1      6884                      62.8    199.9         108.0      108.1    1,217.8
Owtme for Doube.   Teachn                     -              -        -      600.8         *              -        -             *                 600.8
Non-Cl SeNYans Sably                          -              -     58.3         .                         -     137.9                    21.2      217.4
Tra  Alloane                                  -           19.3                                            -      45.7                       -       65.0
Total Recunent Cods                               -        7,857.8     68.5    1,289.2         -           62,8    383.5         108.0      129.3   9,899.1
20,000.0      31,394.5   1,143.2    7,040.2   11,467.6        393.2   2,122.6      2,204.3      4S7.1   76,222,8
Taxes                                           ,             *         *         *          *              *                       
Forih Ewape                               20,000.0      17,384.2    803.7    4,6082   11,467.6          379.7   1,621.1       1,600.7     304.4  58,169.6 S
4QN
t x.
*.                                                                           o1 L
.,                                                          Ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



EXCOMFYXLS
L.ovln Access and Quality of Par Edwuci             Managemet cithe Education SYstn
Stuchtu                            Pr.anWd                                                     Prepadnga
Reform    Conslncton              h,4ervce                                      Decentralized Dewlomnt
prowrn        sod         Girls    Teachers                                         seco        Pla for           Physia
Diec    RebabWao  Educato   Trainn                   GoYtANICEFiu    MOE    Planningan         Hih             CongM 
hmpot    C      om      Poggm Pram   Textbooks  MicroNuttlents  Capaclty  Ma             _t  Education    Total    %   Amount
L bwesmui Cods
A. Dked imprt                           20,000.0             .         -                                                                            20,000.0  
5. ClvI Wrls
C      _eulI Canracts                        -        7,692*    1,022.1                   -               *                 1,226.6          -    9,841.6  6.7    662.9
GrAs Iw School Conarucon                     -        t905           -                                              -            -                     .5 10.0    190.6
impede Costction Mateus                      -        4.2Z1               -          -4*                  -         -             -          -    4,322.1  4,1    175,2
ubtalmCIWorks                                  *       13,820.5        -    1022.1.         -               -                 f,226.S          -   16,069.1  6A    1,028.7
C. Goods
Furomlb                                      -        498S9.5        -      628.7                                            359.4           -    6,877. 10.0       87.8
O0ll  Eqlpmenta d5uppks                                  26.1     30.8      106.6         -               -     118.9          43.7       45.3      371.2 10.0     37.1
Viehcllsmtarcyclft                           -           76.6     23.5    1,378.7          -              -     182.2            -        23.5    1,684.4 10.0    168A
Tardbookls                                   -             -               -         4,945.1              *         *                              4,945.1 10.0    494.5
Pedagogical Metls                                                547.6      619.2    5,562.5                        -            *                 6,729.3  1.7    116.7
Miro-nuklmts                                 *                       -          -         -           275.4         -            -           -      2754 10.0      2775
Subtotal Goods                                 *        5,092.2    601.6    2,633.1   10,507.6          275.4    301.1          403.1       68.8   19,883.0  7.2   1,432,0
D. Specalist Seves
D    Cs1g_VerVWonfaj;.                      1-             -         -      180.9         -               -         *            -           -      180.9  5.0      9.0 I
SpealtSerloes(Inl-                                      7.6       759           -       38.0              r    733.7             -       126.5    1,040.6  5.0     52.3
Speci   Savven(LOc                           -         23t.4       8.3                                    -      28.9            -        37.2      306. 5.0        153 °°
SubtotalSpedaDsts Svi                                     3030       4.2      180.9       38.0                    762.6                    163.7    1,W532.4  50      766
L. Tralning
Fellowsh                                     -           17.3        -       69A          -                     142.4            -                  229.1  .0       11.5
Local Wokshops                                             -       4.6       78.9                         -     187.3         31.1        41.3      343.2  6.6      22.6
Local Tranig                                             2.8         -      667.6         -               -      83.1           9.3                 762.8  5.0     38.1
Subtotal Trinlng                                           20.1      4.6      815.9                         -    412.8        *  40.4       41.3    1,335.2  5.4      7Z2.
F. Funds for Gks Edcato                                      -     191.7          -                              -                 -                  191.7 
TotA Investment Costs                     20,000.0       19,235.8    881Z1    4,652.0   10,545.6          275.4   1,476.6       1,670.1      273.8   59,011.3  4.4   2,609.5
11 Recutent Costs
A. Misweeanous
Teachers Salaries                            -        7,798.1        -          -          *              *         -                        .    7,798.1 
OpeationadMafea                              -           35.1      8.5      573.7                      52.7    167.3           902        91.8    1,019R4  5.0      51.0
Oeme for Doleshmft Teaching                  -              -        -      600.8          -              -         .                               600.8    -
Non-ClD Seants Salry                         *             *      41.7          .                                99.2                      t5.3     156.3  5.0       7 8
Travel Allwnce                                  ,        13.a        -                     - -                   32.5                        *       46.2  5.0       Z3 
Total Recurrent Costs                            -        7,847.0     60.2    1,174.4                       2.7    299.1           90.2      107.2    9,620.8  0.6     61.1
20,000.0      27,082.8    93Z3    5,826.4   10645.6            328.2   1,775.6       1,760.3       381.0   689632.1  3.9   2,670.6 4
PhyskalcContneles                                       1,331.6     67.1      444.0      496.4           30.2    109.2          169.5       22S      2,670.6    -
Price Cotngence                                         2,980.1    143.8      769.7      425.7           34.8    237.7          274.5       53.7    4,920.1  6.7    329.4 IV
20,000.0      31,394.5   1,143.2    7,040.2   11,467.6         393.2   2,122.6       2,204.3      457.1   76,222.8  3.9   3.000.05
Taxes                                          -              .                   .          -                                                              . -
Fogn Exchge                             20,000.0       17.384.2    803.7    4,608.2   11,467.6          379.7   1,621.1       1,600.7      304.4   58,169.6  4.2   2,434.9 o



- 84 -
AN=X 14
Page 1 of 2
REPUBUC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVION PLAN
1.    IDA spervision inpu.  Regular supervision needs are described in Table I of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual
plans and audits, and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks
of various specialist inputs a year which are not included in Table 1.
Borrowers Contribution to Supervsion
(a)    Proaesg j      would be submitted twice a year, in October and April. They would include
a summaary of implementation under each project component, financial statements on project
expenditures, updated project implementation (including the sector reform program) and
procurement schedules, as well as the status of contract advertising, bidding, awards and
completion dates and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
the PCU would collect mputs from each responsible MOE Directorate and prepare the
reports.
(b)   Joint annual reviews. Once a year, no earlier than october and not later than November 30,
the PCU will organize a joint IDA/Government review or project implementation based on:
(i) the progress report in the above paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review,
would also include: (ii) an annual work program and budget for the next academic year; (iii)
a draft budget for the education sector for the next year; (iv) the status of policy and project
onitoring indicators as listed in the Government Letter of Education Development policy
d in the implementation plan (v) the status of each component. Tne annual reviews would
be held at the national and regional levels using a participatory approach including
beneficiaries.
(c)    Mid-term review. In addition, the PCU would carry out, jointly with IDA, and, to the extent
available, with other donors affiliated with the project (namely KfW and Norway) and with
Cooperation Prancaise and G1Z, not earlier than April 1 and not later than May 31, 1997,
a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the project. The review would
cover all aspects of the project, with a special focus on: (i) progress in implementing policy
measures and their impact on the staffing, cost and efficiency of the system, including the
double-shifting in urban classrooms, lowering repetition in primary schools, the recruitment
of teachers, and completing the teacher in-service and pre-service training restructuring
program; (ii) the effectiveness of the different modalities of implementing the classroom
construction component and the ability of communities to finance their expected share; (iii)
the effectiveness of the micro-nutrients program; Civ) progress in implementing the textbooks
program; (iv) functioning of the girls' education programs; (v) progress in the studies on
promoting private and community school, and on experimental schools using national
languages; (vi) progress in preparing a higher education development plan; and (vii) progress
in vie implementation of the programs financed by other donors, particularly KfW, Norway,
dhi; Cooperation Frangaise, and GTZ. Based on the review, the MOE shall promptly prepare
an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for the further implementation of the project and the
program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
(d)    The PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions
and participating in the mission with them.
(e)    ProiMteffon reM. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a completion report,
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would be transmitted to
IDA.



-85-                                     ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
S    ItioPlan
IDA Fisarl Year  Y)                   Ativity                                Skll                 staff
and Approx. dates                                                                               weo
FY95           Preparation for and implementation of project   Civil wors, Prourement, Dis-  7
Nov-Dec 94       launch workshop with emphasis on implemen-   bursement, Education, texdbooks
tation of the SRP and project investments.  specialist, and Project Management.
April-May 95                                                                                   7
Supervision Mission:                      Civil workslmplemnation, Eda-
Review the implementation of the SRP and  cation, textboo  speialist, Proje
analytial work for higher education develop-   managemen
mant plan.
Revie all component's progress in the prepa-
ration of bid documents and procedural manu-
ala, consultant recruitment and seleotion; PCU
operations, textbooks, education budget for
primary school supplies, for school construc-
tion, and teacher recruitment for current aca-
demic year.                                                           ___
FY96           1st Joint Annual Review Mission:          Same as above                      7
Nov-Dec 951
April- May 96     Review progress of past year and plans for the
next year, including the management cf Ci)
classrooms oonstruction; (ii) textbooks; (iii)
nmicro-nutiens programs; (iv) girls' education
prognun; (v) teacher training; (vi) prepara-
tion of the national debate on higher educa-
tion; and (vii) the procurement of goods and
services, taining progamms, TORs for oonsul-
tants and studies, counterpast programs, bud-
getasy alocations, community contributions,
project accounting and auditing, and teacher                                 4
recruitmeaL
Supervision Mission
Same as above
FY97          2nd Joint Annual Review Mission            Sane as above                      4
Nov-Dec 96
April-May.97      Mid-tm  Review:                           Same as above                      6
Comprchensive review of project inputs,
operations and outcomes and restructure pro-
ject if necessary.
FY98          3rd Joint Annual Review Mission            Same as above                      6
Nov-Dec 97
Same as above                      4
April-May 1998
Supervision Mission
FY99          4th Joint Annual Review Mission            Same as above                      6
Nov-Doc 98
April-May 99                                                Same as above                      4
Supervision Mission
FY2000         Project Completion Mission                 To be deermined                    6
Nov-Dec
1999



- 86 -
Page I ofl
3IE3IC OF NIGE
BdSIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT CHUMID)
PROaIOMMT ARMAGEMTS
INPLENIITATION SCKODULE
ESTIMIB) ANNUAL CNIRACTUIAL AND CrHER PAYENTS
(US$ PILLION EWIVALET)
... ... ....................... ...................................................._._.....__....................._._.__._.__......................... ___ ......._,_..  ..    .
1994                      Project Year                   Total CWB         Remarks
Education III                        Pre-      ...........__.................3    11.3..... Pa Ient LCB
Project    1995      1996      t997      1998     1999            O TH
_ _ ..._ .......    .....  .....  _.___._. ......           N8F
ProJect Elements\auarters            12 3 4  1 234  ;1234  1 2341 '234  t 234                           (a)
........... ......... _........ ....... ...... ...   . ........ ....... .... ........ ......................._..
Credit Timimn
Sign/Effec/Ctose***
............. ...................... _.__. 
A4l apart from school construction
Setectfon of architects              xx 
Signing of Contract for Design         xx                                I                   I       I
Preparatfon of DesignJ8id Docs         xxxx xx        II*                                            I 
Bidding and evalualion                         xx
Bid/Award submitted to IDA                       xx
Construction contract Signature                  xx
Construction Phase:                I        '       xx xxxxxxxx
- Inspectorates (IDA)                                     1-        .        .                  1.2  LCB
Teacher Trainring Cottepes (Kf|               *         1.8 |* |                     *        1.8  LCB
SchooL construction Program          |        5       xx5xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx   xxxxxx|      -
Updating of construction   ide   xx 
Drafting Procedures Manua         j xx                           1
Preparation of Standard 8id Oocs   xx    ,
Approval of Procedures and Bi   l   x       :            
Construction Contracts Signature!           t    xx        xx         xx                     I xx 
Rehabilitation Phase tIDA):                 ,          1.0 :    2. 0          1.5                4.5  LCB
Grants for school construction                   0.5j    0.5         0.5      1.0                2.S  OTHjCo   rciat Practices
GoodsI                                        I                                                        I
6ds. ............__-- .....t ' . t I ..I T
Signing of Contract of Proc.Spec   xx                 !                                              I
Standard Bid Does ready for revi   xx    I
Preparation of all Bid oocuments1    xx  I            !
Bid/Award submitted to IDA                xx|
Contracts Signature                         .xx       .
Vehicles 8 Motorcyctes                      '     -8 |     01  1j    -                                ICBO    through LCB
Office Equipment & Supplies                  |                                  4                0.4 LC0.1 throuh OTH
Textbooks & Pedagogical Naterfat                 2.0       1.0                                   3.0  iCB
Micro-Nutrients            ae l                  0:3                                             0 T   i  -3 jICBI
Consultancies                        I        I         I         T                                         i
......................... ....................................     
LOI/TORs/Short List for approval!  xx_
Bid/Award submitted to tiDA             xx
Contracts reviewed by IDA                 xx'                                                I
Contracts Signature               Ixx                 I                  !  
Contract for Key Staff at SPE          xx                                                             O 0TH
Contracts for Training ser. (sigj            xx                                                  1  OTN
Engineerfnr/Suervisfon Contractl             xx       [                                               OTH|
Oisceraneous (Operatenag Costs)                            I
-----------------------------                                              2                   :       ! 
Operation                  C                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxx,xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx           .2  OTH1
.___.,_._......................................_.___............___.._.__...............................
(a): Procurement Methods
NBF: Ron Bank-Financed
A:AIMPLVIG.UK1CBA)



- 87 -                                                Page 2.f 2
PRIOR REVIEV THRESHOLD
WITRACT PIIILE BY VAR IIUER
_. .................................... .. ........ ............................ ._ ---_._-----_----_-------_._-----__---_-
ESTIMATED                   CUMULATIVE                   PERCENTAGE
RANGE OF                 VALUE (NO.) OF               VALUE (NO.)                  OF TOTAL
CONTRACT VALUES              CONTRACTS   IITHIN              ABOVE                     VALUE (NO.)
tINCL. CONTINGENCIES)           EACH RANGE                   THRESHOLD                        ABOVE
(USS THOUSAND)               (USS MILLION)                (US5 MILLION)               THRENOLD
(1)                        (2)                          C3)                          (4)
GoaDs
. ............... ........................ .................. __ ....................
Vatue    Number             Vatue    Number              Yatue    Nuwber
............ ...........     ------------------           ----------.........
1,000 and above                 3.0            a             3.0            2               28X          sx
500 to 999                3.0           4              6.0           6               56X         14X
250 to 499                2.8           a              8.8         -14               81X         32X
------ .------    _     ............................... ..........................      -------------------- . 
30 to 249                1.5          10            10.3           24               95X         55X
9 to   29              0.5          20             t0.8          64100X                      100X
Duration of procuresnet is abouit three years
,._..................... .............................. ................................................ ------------------. .. ... 
WORKS
-.-...--..-..--.---.----------. .....................   ___.. ____,._.............. . ._.......^,......_,
Value     Nuyber            value     Number             Vatue     Numiber
.. ,,..... .............   ......... .............. ...................... ....... ......-- _
* 000 an     bve---XO
sso to°999                1.2           2              1.2           2               26X         10X
250 to 499                0.8           3              2.0           5               43X         24X
,_.............. ..............................  ..................  ----?-------------........... ---------------------
30 to 249                2.6          16              4.6          21              100%        100X
3 to   29                                           4.6          21               100X       100X
Ouratfan of procureent is about four years
=._ ....__..................................  .............
Note:           Ibreshold selecotio  correspond tD a desirable pernae  coverage of contract value:
(around 81 % for goods and 43 % for workcs), which requires a reasonaible individual
workldoad for the task manaer (any lower threshold would require additional staf input,
which would not be realistic and desirable.
._z



MGER
BASIC EDUCATION SErOR PROJWT (YRID)
DlMbomt Profltale de D                  ebount
______                Da.m.f                      RoB
n_c Badc Educaton Sector Project                RaWoh Setor Pro..e
.         _4                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Hyrd)*
AU et atwoom    AW L*NSPbo    CIUSihUt      gn00%iA
FDA~~~(Ls  dao   (U_ m_tl' _A Q b  
t      -                              M' {UOA s I  0.L
2                 ~~~~~~0.0
2           0.0          0*        0%        0%                          90%
4           0o            16       79.       8% 7%  6%
19s           1            1.1          2.7     11%       1o0%                         80S
2           t.t          3.6      10%       14E
3           t.1          4. 0     2%20%                             JB      %
4           1.I           S.0     26%       20%                           70%
1307          1           IA            7.4     21%       22%
21          A.            as      ss        26                                                                             P
9           :            10.11    42%       20%A                        60%
4            Ii          11.4     47%       20%
to"           1           1.2          12.6     62%       42%
2           1.2          1.2      67%       469%                          50S                                                                                                      0b
2           1.2           .o      02%       60%                                                                                                                                     OD
4            1.2        t1.2      07%       64S
1906          1           1.1          17.2     71%       02%                           4                                                                                                          1
2           1.1          10.4     70%       04%
S            1.0  t s             Om        Om                            30%
4           1.0          20.4     64%       70%
200           1            1*          21.4     06%       74%                      a
2           0.6         22.2      92%       7%                            20%
a           0.s          23.0     s66%      e0                            2%
4           0.6          23.0     36%       62%
2001          1           04           24.0     90%       90%                           10%
.2      o,.9j               24., sS 2s                       
0%
0n          0                        0           0           0 g 
0           0            b          01          _           03           0
Fscd YOU fterdcls
I.  IC



IBRD 16779R
i' 2'                                         n1. Gueuvn0/U                              S                            io-                           1                             4
NIG E R                                         N                                                          / - .- - .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----.---- 
N I G E -R                                   L7uS.                                                                                                                             3m
Pa v e d   R o ad s     (1   o r   2   L a n e s )  j                                                                                       / -    -....                                                             .j   f
Paved Roads under Construction                         \                    *-.                   \:
Engineered Grovel Roads                                  \                                                                                                 ,..\*  
Simple Eorth Roads                                           .
Mointained Tracks                                                '                                                 - *j-
- Simple Tracks                             /                                             --  fI
Rivers      -                                                                      A        \.-"I
±    Airports                                                                  \            /           |                                                             I                                           /
i Department Copitair              \                                         ;                                                                                                                               /
-]6  ;         -*--  Department Boundaries                    j                                                                                                                                                                                          1.| 
Internationol Boundaries                               Tnhaobnod;                                                                                               :                                   /
s M   A   L  I/i                                                                                   |                                                                                                  /
_ ~~~t                           Y       a          _- __ Jei\                                                                                                                                                   /  ..     
(~~~~~~~~~1 B E  ;                                                                                   k- vn                                                     -=, CMEON(u1-CA 
To-vIt
Tn.d. .iwnd                                                                                On rSmnin YW                           7                              @                                     Eo.        *        xtMrRCtV.
Ut,                                                                    100 150 200                                                      /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,i
>2)  s                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERA
"'I,                                                                           ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z         .r                                                  CENTRAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ML
BENIN                                                                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~    jCAMEROOF-4~~~~~~~~~KLOETR  AICHAD
B U  R K I N  A                                                                                                                                                                                                        A             K
MILES                    z     "'GERIA~~~~~~~~~~vRI 18



