Report No. PIC897
Project name                        Niger-Third Education Project(&)
Region                              Africa
Sector                              Education
Project ID                          NEPA1980
Borrower                            Government of Niger
Implementing agency                 Mr. Saadou Galadima
Project Director,
Ministry of Education
B.P. 11897, Niamey, Niger
Tel: 227-72--26
Date Prepared                       January 31, 1994
Projected Board Date                May 31, 1994
Country and Sector Background
1.   Niger has a low level of human resource development: First, its
adult literacy rate (14%), and primary school enrolent ratio (28%-) are
among the lowest in the world. Furthermore, in recent years, the
increase in enrolent has not kept pace with the population growth.
This stagnation of human resource development will have serious
detrimental effects on Niger's long-term development prospects.
Second, Niger's primary education is generally of low quality and
relevance and has a low internal efficiency:   16% of all pupils are
repeaters; about one-third drop out prior to the final grade; and very
few of those who take the leaving examination pass. Curriculum and
training materials do not reflect the needs of the students who will
not continue beyond primary education and who will be employed in the
rural/informal sector. Third, enrolent expansion will continue to
face financial constraints given Niger's low level of educational
development and severe budgetary limitations. Last, the education
sector's weak planning and management capacity hampers efficient use
of existing resources.
Project Objectives
2.   The Project objective is to help shift Niger's educational system
from a narrow, elitist, costly one to a more relevant and equitable
one in which resources are allocated and used more efficiently and
where priority is given to improved quality and to the expansion of
Primary Education.
Project Description
3.   The proposed project will focus on issues in primary education
including qualitative improvements, raising the primary enrolent
ratio, and reducing disparities in access with respect to gender and
urban/rural distribution. The role of decentralized levels is being
emphasized. The Government's plan seeks to increase the primary
enrolent ratio from its current level of 28.5% to 35% by 1999.



Project Financing
4.   Financial participation has been discussed with representatives
of the donors in Niger, with French Cooperation in Paris, and with Kfw
and GTZ in Frankfurt. FAC plans to support the transformation of the
Faculty of Pedagogy into an "Ecole Normale Superieure", to strengthen
the training of primary and secondary school teachers, and to finance
curriculum development. Kfw has shown interest in cofinancing primary
school construction and rehabilitation. GTZ plans to support the
extension of the experimental primary schools in national languages
provided the evaluation indicates positive results. FED has confirmed
its intention to cofinance the Project. The Norwegian contribution
would finance development and procurement of primary school textbooks
and teachers'guide and the rehabilitation of classrooms.
Project Implementation
5.   Critical policy measures are being developed.
(a) Enrolent targets: The national development program is designed
to achieve the following targets by 1999: raising overall primary
education ratio from 28.5% in 1993, to 35%, and the share of
female enrolent from 36% to 409.   While it appears modest, to
achieve this target in the present social and economic context of
Niger will require a major budgetary effort.
(b) Increasing public expenditures on primary education: To attain
35% gross enrolent ratio by 1999 it was agreed that:
*    520 new teaching posts will be added annually to the
Government's primary education budget ;
*    The annual training materials budget for primary education
(under a specific line-item in the national budget) will be
gradually increased; and
*    150 classes will be financed annually through the public
investment budget.
(c) Faculty of Pedagogy: The government agreed to eliminate the
present duplication of programs provided at the Faculty of
Pedagogy (FP) of the University of Niamey and by other University
Faculties. The FP will be transformed into an "Ecole Normale
Superieure" (ENS) that will train teachers for lower and upper
secondary education through one year pedagogical programs for
students who have completed their subject matter training at the
Faculty of Science or Faculty of humanities.
(d) Student subsidies: The need to contain student subsidies was
discussed with the Government based on a working paper prepared
by the Ministry of Education. The Government agreed to send IDA
concrete proposals regarding reduction of the level of student
subsidies.
(e) Studies: The Government agreed to conduct:
-2 -



*    a study on measures to introduce and to stimulate private
education and thereafter implement strategy for promoting
increased provision of education by the private sector,
communities and NGOS;
*    a comprehensive and careful evaluation of the experimental
primary schools in national languages which have been
operating in Niger since the mid-1970's; and
*    a study on measures to be implemented to contain
administrative costs.
Project Sustainability
6.   The project aims at assisting Government to formulate an
appropriate education sector strategy and implement reforms in the
secondary and technical/vocational programs. The project entails
several risks. First, there is pressure within the educational
establishment to upgrade the training and thus the costs of teachers.
Second, there may be political opposition to the restructuring of the
technical and vocational system.
Environmental Aspects
7.   The environmental category assigned to the project is "C".
Program Objective Categories
8.   The project primarily responds to the country's human resource
development strategy. Because of measures dealing with girl's
participation in education and with a pilot feeding program, it has
WID and antipoverty dimensions.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



