Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
24311
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-21431; TF-20816; IDA-26180)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.3 MILUON (US$41.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
BASIC EDUCATION SECfOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
6/20/200J2
fluman Development III
Country Department 13
Africa Region
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 794 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0126 = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPED                      Cellule d'Animation Pedagogique (Pedagogical Peer Support System)
CE                         Cellule d'Evaluation (Evaluation Unit)
CTPSF                      Cellule Technique pour la Promotion de la Scolarisation des Filles
(Technical Unit for the Promotion of Girls' Education)
DAAP                       Direction des Affaires Administratives et du Personnel (Department
of Administrative Affairs and Personnel)
DPE                        Direction des Programmes d'Education (Education Projects Unit)
DCA                        Development Credit Agreement
EERP                       Emegency Education Rehabilitation Plan
ENI                        Ecole Nationale des Instituteurs (National School of Grade-school
teachers)
GER                        Gross Enrollment Ratio
MEN                        Ministry of Education (Ministere d'Education Nationale)
SRP                        Sectoral Reform Program
SIP                        Sector Investment Program
UNIPAC                     United Nations International Procurement Agency
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:   Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader:   Rachidi Radji



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (HYBRID)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                      16
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    26
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                                   28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the perfDrmance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



[Project ID: P00 1980                                    Project Name: Basic Education Sector Project
L__________________________________________               (Hybrid)
lTam Leader: Rachidi B. Radji                            TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Basic Education Sector Project (Hybrid)       L/C/TF Number: TF-21431; TF-20816;
IDA-26180
Country/Department: NIGER                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KE_Y DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/17/1987                             Effective: 11/08/1994         09/26/1995
Appraisal:  06/12/1989                               MTR: 11/15/1997            08/17/1998
Approval:  05/31/1994                              Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF NIGER/MIN OF EDUC; GOVT OF NIGER/HIGHER EDUC; GOVT
OF NIGE]VAND LABOR
Other Partners:  Gennany (KfW Grant of $10.s m), Norway (Norwegian Grant of $4.8 m),
UNICEF,
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     .Callisto E. Madavo                        K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Antoinette Sayeh                          M. Gillette
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                     F. Agueh
Team Leader at ICR:  Rachidi Radji                             B. Fredriksen
ICR Primary Author:  Aminata Maiga-Toure; Myrina
McCullough
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS--Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project supported the implementation of the Govermment Emergency Education Rehabilitation
Plan (EERP) between 1994 and 2000. It was a hybrid project comprised of a Sectoral Reform Program
(SRP) designed to promote cost-effective use of public education resources, and a Sector Investment
Program (SIP) designed to increase access to, and quality of, primary education and to improve the
capacity of the Government to plan and manage the utilization of resources in the education sector.
These objectives and design were appropriate and responded adequately to the needs and capacity
of the country at the time. Specific baseline and target indicators were agreed upon and are presented in
Annex 1. With hindsight, some of the targets may have been modest, but at the time of this project's
preparation, particular efforts were being made in the Bank to design realistic projects with realistic targets
and objectives. The Initiating Memo of 1989 states, "On the one hand, the modest medium-term prospects
for economic growth and the many competing claims on public budgets leave little room for additional
public funds for education. On the other hand, as the school-age population increases by about 3.4% a
year, and the aging of the teaching force implies an automatic annual increase of about 3% in the salary
budget, continuation of present policies will necessitate more funds even to maintain present, very modest
enrollment ratios of 37.3%. Simulations indicate that if the education budget were to increase as in the past
and primary education's share of the budget remains unchanged, the primary enrollment ratio would decline
to 20% in 1995/96." With the reforms agreed upon under the sectoral part of this hybrid project, such a
decline in enrollment was not expected, but neither were huge increases in enrollment; thus the modest
target of increased primary enrollment from 29 to 35% over the five-year period, was realistic.
The objectives of the Sectoral reform Program were to promote more cost-effective use of public
resources and to lay the foundation for future financial sustainability by implementing a set of reform
measures.
The objectives of the Sector Investment program were:
*   Improving Access to and Quality of Primary Education: It supported the Government's
objectives to (i) increase the primary enrollment ratio from 290/o to 35% by 1999; (ii) equalize
educational opportunities, particularly between urban and rural populations and between boys and
girls; and (iii) improve the quality of primary education and the training of primary school
teachers.
*   Strengthening Sector Managerial and Planning Capacities: It aimed at improving the
Education Ministrs capacity to efficiently manage scarce educational resources and meet the
reform objectives by providing support for (i) educational planning; (ii) private education; (iii)
financial and personnel management; (iv) evaluation of education improvement programs; and (v)
education projects coordination.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Implementation of the Sectoral Reform Program (US$20.0 m) in two tranches
contingent on six reforms:
A. Increased public expenditures on primary education
-2 -



B. Extension of double-shift teaching in primary education
C. Restructured and consolidated training of primary school teachers
D. Consolidated training of secondary school teachers
E. More efficient use of teachers in general secondary education
F. Restriction of student subsidies in secondary and higher education.
Component 2: Improving Access to and Quality of Prinary Education US$51.2 m)
A. Construction and rehabilitation of primary school classrooms
B. Developing and implementing a program to accelerate girls' education
C. Improve the quality of primary school teacher-training programs
D. Provide about 1.6 million primary school textbooks and 30,000 teacher guides
E. Support a UNICEF-run micronutrient program
Component 3: Strengthening (Ministry of Education) Sector Managerial and Planning Capacities
(US$4.8 m) to:
A. Manage resources, implement and evaluate education improvement programs
B. Improve the efficiency of decentralized sector planning and management
C. Develop a strategy for higher education
D. Coordinating Unit (DPE)
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the components. However, the emphasis and focus of the project
were modified to adjust to the very volatile environment and evolving budgetary constraints of the sector.
By the midterm review in 1998, it became clear that the success of the project depended primarily on the
maintenance of a stable environment in the education sector. For this, a lot of energy was devoted to
responding to the increasing teacher recruitment needs while stabilizing the wage bill burden on the national
buidget and enhancing the involvement of parent associations. Two amendments to the original DCA (that
ol'November 1998 to create the "Volunteer teachers salaries" subcategory, and that of January 1999 to
establish a separate special account to facilitate the payment of salaries and benefits of voluntary teachers)
were ratified. The other project objectives dealing with educational planning (higher education strategy,
private education) were appropriately put on hold while these fundamental issues were resolved along with
the stabilization of the sector institutional framework and the creation of more enabling conditions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. When this project was under preparation, the QAG
proceedings had not yet been introduced, so no assessment is available for Quality at Entry. The objectives
and design of this project were appropriate for meeting its development objectives and responded
adequately to the needs and capacity of the country at the time, as stated in the CAS. The project design
and preparation were based on (i) lessons learned from two previous Bank education projects in Niger; (ii)
studies done over the previous five years; (iii) the Government's EERP Plan; (iv) the National Plan for
Education which the Government developed following the 1990 World conference on Education; (v)
working papers developed for each project component by national teams; (vi) national and regional
workshops held during project preparation to develop stakeholder ownership; and (vii) extensive
discussions nation-wide conducted with the Nigerien authorities, the teachers' union, Parents Associations
and the donor community. The project was prepared by the Governnent with support from IDA, in close
coordination with France, Germany, Norway, UNICEF, and UNDP.
Project objectives responded directly to the needs of the country and the priorities of the sector.
-3-



Preparation was initiated in 1987 but was interrupted due to considerable political instability in Niger.
During that time, enrollment barely increased despite population growth, and the quality of instruction
suffered. An experienced team maintained policy dialogue with the Government during this troubled
political period and during the transition towards democratic elections. In 1993, the project team was
finally able to proceed with a pre-appraisal mission for the project. The hybrid nature of the project
responded directly to the first Country Assistance Strategy for Niger, which stated, "because Niger ranks
among the poorest countries in the world, it needs to focus on improving access to health, education,
employment, and credit..., increasing overall access to prinary education. In light of the current fiscal
crisis, the above measures imply a transfer of resources from the comparatively privileged civil service
sector towards vital development sectors (health, education and agriculture)."
The President's Report clearly outlined the risks of projects in Niger at the time and the measures it
would take to mitigate those risks.
As the hybrid approach was quite a new instrument at the time, the project was submitted to the
Regional Operations Committee (ROC), which supported "the use of a major sector operation to justify the
need for quick disbursing money ..." and "...as a sector investment project, found the proposed operation a
good example of an investment project..." [Minutes of the Operations Committee, June 26, 1989]. Niger
had undertaken a SAL earlier, but the Government had difficulty in handling the reforms envisaged. The
political environment was still very unstable, but the selective interventions within the Education Sector
appeared and proved to be feasible. Although the sectoral reform (quick disbursing) program took longer
than expected due to civil turmoil in the nation, it was implemented and successfully promoted
cost-effective use of public education resources. The complementary investment program then allowed
specific progress towards the major objective of improved primary education in a stabilized education
sector.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the objectives is rated satisfactory overall (See Annex I for indicators used), since
Components 1 and 2 were satisfactory, and Component 3 was marginally satisfactory.
The sector reform program:
Component one is rated satisfactory. The core policy reforns introduced were sustained and laid
the ground for further dialogue on efficiency and cost-effectiveness measures in the sector.
Efficiency in primary teacher recruitment was increased by the application of the the law requiring
that recruitment include 85% Instituteurs adjoints and 15% Instituteurs. This generated cost savings of
about FCFA 117.4 between 1996 and 1998, when the Government decided to introduce a more radical
teacher recruitment reform. It broke with tradition and introduced contractual teacher recruitment, thereby
producing even greater savings relative to the salaries of civil service teachers. This policy measure - not
foreseen at the time of project preparation - became one of the most important achievements of the
project. It was essential in responding to additional schooling demands and has made it possible to bring
the total number of new teachers to 7381 over the past six years while limiting the salary burden on the
national budget. Given the difficulties experienced by the education sector (non-payment of salaries,
teacher and student strikes, political shutdowns) during these years and the inflamnmatory issues being dealt
with at the time, this achievement deserves full credit.
-4 -



Another important policy measure implemented was the extension of double-shift teaching in urban
primary schools. The initial objective of creating 1,380 pupil-groups per year was rapidly exceeded, and
an average of 1,850 pupil-groups were observed over the past five years. This resulted in some FCFA 7.1
billion cost savings.
Overall, the implementation of the reform measures, including the restriction of secondary and
]hiigher education scholarships and subsidies, has led to a savings of CFAF 19.5 billion (see Annex 3), as
compared to what would have been if those measures were not applied.
][mproving Access to and Quality of Primary Education:
This component was rated satisfactory. The Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) surpassed the
appraisal target of 35%, reaching 37.3% in 2000 (Annuaire statistique 2000-2001). The total first grade
enrollment increased from 85,000 pupils in 1998 to 129,753 in 1999 and to 152,190 in 2000. Girls' gross
enrollment rate went from 23.6% in 1990-1991 to 29.6% in 2000-2001 and by the end of the project, girls
r epresented 400/o of the total student population admitted in grade 1; and the proportion of girls in total
enrollment has also improved over the past years and reached 390/O in 2000.
Thanks to the concerted efforts on the part of the Government and its Partners in Education, the
quality of education in Niger did not deteriorate significantly over the last ten years in the face of a sharp
increase in enrollment as has been the case in some countries in the Region (eg., Uganda, Malawi). The
CFEPD (end of grade 6) exam pass rate increased slightly from 30% in 1994 to 33.6% in 2000. The
repetition rate in prinary education did not reach the 10% target but declined from 13.1% in 1998-1999 to
12.1% in 1999-00. In the final grade of primary school, repetition rates declined somewhat from 37.5% in
1998-99 to 36.4% in 1999-00. However, learning achievement remained low.
Results from a pilot standardized test reveal a low level of learning achievement. Half of the
tested students (from grades CP, CE2 and CM2) scored 35 points out of 100 in mathematics, and less than
4% reached the required score of 70%. While only further analysis would pinpoint the real causes behind
the stagnation of the quality of education over the life of the project, the two major causes were probably
the failure to make textbooks available to students in the classroom (ending up with a ratio of 1 book for
three students as opposed to the targeted 4 books per student) and the repercussions that the unstable
political situation may have had on the whole system (two full school years lost to strikes), including the
teacher training schedule.
Teachers were trained in double-shift techniques and in gender analysis as foreseen in the project
design, and a participatory, active training methodology, well liked by both teachers and pupils, was put
into place eight years ago, but the end results did not show a clear, statistical improvement in the quality of
education.
Strengthening Sector Managerial and Planning Capacities:
Although much benefit came indirectlyfrom Component 3, it is rated marginally satisfactory
because of some shortfall in actual outcomes compared to the stated objectives. The first part of the
objective of this component -- to improve the Ministry of Education's (MEN) capacity to efficiently manage
scarce educational resources - was substantially achieved through the implementation of the contractual
tzacher program worked out jointly between the Borrower and the Bank (see above). Due to the flexibility
and innovative work of both the Borrower and the Bank, substantial progress was made in this area. In
- 5 -



addition, improvements were noted in the minstry's capacity in school mapping as well as school data
gathering and processing. The establishment of a functional computerized staff data base in the
Administrative Affairs Unit helped improve the overall personnel management capacity in the ministry.
On the other hand, the objective of supporting reforns by building knowledge, improving program
coordination and evaluation, and improving financial management capacity fell short of expectations, in
particular with respect to the decentralization. Outcomes were also limited in terms of promoting
result-based management and greater accountability. Most of the sectoral studies envisaged were caried
out either by project consultants or by other donors by the end of the project and have been useful in laying
the foundation and providing the knowledge-base for the current 10-year plan. Capacity created in the
central Planning Department was very helpful in this respect. However, time and circumstances did not
allow for a full use of some of the studies. For example, although a pilot school mapping exercise was done
in Dosso, a country-wide school map was not developed as planned; decentralized planning units were
trained in data collection, but their capacity remained low in the area of basic statistics analysis and school
mapping; the results of the study on higher education were not yet used to build up a consensual and
sustainable strategy for its development.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Sectoral Reform Program: Implementation of this component is rated satisfactory. The
first tranche of the quick-disbursing component of the project (US$10.0 m) was released at effectiveness
(September 26, 1995), albeit with a delay of over a year due to a deteriorated macro-economic situation.
The second tranche of the quick-disbursing component (US$10.0 m.) was released on July 3, 1996, when
the following, agreed-upon activities were implemented
* recruitment of 520 new primary school teachers, 85% of which were instituteurs adjoints and 15%
instituteurs;
* 720 student teachers were admitted to the ENI in the same proportion;
* the number of classes implementing double-shift teaching were increased from 670 to 683 in
1995/96;
* scholarships for higher education decreased from CFAF 5.5 billion to CFAF 4.5 billion, and
scholarships for secondary education were maintained at CFAF 1.6 billion;
* 76 contractual teachers' contracts were terminated;
* 120 classrooms were built using national and community resources;
* budget for teaching materials were reserved exclusively for primary schools and increased from
360 million CFAF to 439 million CFAF in 1995/96;
* teachers received in-service training: 2,295 in double-shifting; 260 in the use of new textbooks; 41
in gender analysis.
Some of these measures were expanded and/or reinforced later on as shown in Annex 3. It
should be noted that some project activities undertaken during the initial quick-disbursing phase were only
barely maintained later on due to a lack of adequate funding or to changes in school conditions. For
example, primary teacher in-service training was to have been maintained through a pedagogical peer
support system (CAPED) spread throughout the country. By the mid-term review, however, this
previously successful endeavor was presenting some flaws. CAPED structures were not receiving any
supplies, equipment, or financial support. Without vehicles or other incentives, teacher-trainers were
increasingly frustrated in their attempts to reach outlying areas and provide support to primary teachers
working there. Additional attention and resources will be allocated to these activities during the coming
- 6 -



years. Also, the new lower-secondary teacher-training system failed to respond to the demand for teachers
because, from among the already limited number of graduates from the various facultes, only a relatively
small number choose the teaching stream and succeed in passing the entrance exam to enroll in the Ecole
AVormale Superieure.
Component 2: Improving access to and Quality of Primary Education
A. Construction Program: The quantitative objectives of the civil works component were reached and
even surpassed: 1770 new primary school classrooms were built, of which 84% in rural areas (290
financed by IDA). The remaining civil works were financed by the Belgian, German, and Nigerien
governments. The civil works financed by the latter were implemented by regional services, which was an
accomplishment in itself. Up to that time construction had been managed entirely by the National Public
Works Department . One hundred percent of the rehabilitation program was completed, corresponding to
1,500 classrooms (all financed by IDA). Ten inspectorates were built and equipped with IDA funds.
It was noted, upon inspection, that the quality of many of the facilities left room for improvement. The
quality of many buildings was below standard due to poor contractor performance, deficient supervision
and delay in payment, inadequate quality of materials or labor. Maintenance was often neither budgeted
nor planned for; all of which resulted in an early deterioration of the buildings.
The pilot cost sharing stream in school construction with communities did not succeed because the
poorest of communities could not afford the agreed-upon level of 10% participation.
B. Girls' education: The project achieved all its objectives under this sub-component. The main
objective which was to bring the proportion of girls in primary school from 36% in 1996 to 40% in 2000
was reached. The girls' education unit, CTPSF, was created in 1994, and its activities focused on regions
that were designated as priority areas. Massive sensitization campaigns, which involved local leaders,
helped achieve a certain change in parents' attitudes especially in rural areas. Of the 254,619 students
attending primary school in rural areas, 32% were girls. In 1999-2000, girls represented 35%. The
average annual growth rate in 1999 stood at 9% for boys as opposed to 14% for girls. Furthermore, the
project helped produce a teachers' guide based on the findings of a study on gender stereotypes; regional
focal points were recruited at the regional level and for the first time in Niger, the issue of girls' education
was discussed in the context of medersas (Koranic schools). To keep up this momentum, further demand
stimulating approaches are beeing put into place namely measures to curtail the impact of distance on
regular attendance; tutoring, to improve retention, regional focal points as well as more sensitization
campaigns and mothers' association to further support female schooling.
C. Primary School Teacher training programs: The objective of improving the quality of primary
school programs was not fully achieved, but significant steps were made to ensure improved quality in the
coming years. In 1993 a new integrated method of teaching with adapted textbooks and teacher guides was
introduced in Niger. For several years, the program -- introducing an active, student-centered approach,
quite different from the old, top-down methodologies used to date - was resisted, if not ignored, but
currently the methodology is being adopted with enthusiasm by those younger teachers having received
rudimentary training in its use. Itvis felt by these teachers that the methodology will be better mastered if it
is used in conjunction with additional pedagogical peer-support (CAPED). The CAPED system had been
introduced prior to the project and subsequently adapted and supported by the project. The system offers a
forum in which new teachers are supported and mentored in teaching techniques, while the older teachers
learn about the new approach from the younger teachers. During the school year 1999-2000, 712
in-service training sessions were held by the CAPED. CAPED represents a very promising method of
- 7 -



in-service teacher training that the government ought to support further.
D. Textbooks: It should first be noted that an unforeseen output was achieved under this component.
Niger was able to take ownership of textbook copyrights, thereby avoiding previous bottlenecks resulting
from foreign ownership, while also improving its capacity to design culturally-appropriate textbooks. The
stated objective - to purchase and distribute 1.6 million textbooks, 1.2 million math workbooks, and
30,000 teacher guides - was only partially achieved. By the end of the project, a total of 840,000
textbooks, 353,000 math workbooks and 62,000 teacher guides were purchased. Unfortunately, however,
problems in the storage and distribution of textbooks surfaced quite early on in the project when it was
found that textbooks were being diverted from the schools to commercial sales people. Various distribution
systems were tried unsuccessfully, resulting in a temporary suspension of distribution altogether.
Consequently, most primnay schools currently offer I reading textbook per three students, as opposed to the
1:1 ratio targeted and insufficient math workbooks. In many classrooms, Math is done on the blackboard
and the pupils' slates, based on the Math Guide held by the teacher.
Textbooks received by the schools are maintained with great care under a strict policy of limited use.
In double-shift classrooms the books are kept in the desks and used by both shifts in turn. In single-shift
classes the books are also kept at the school and often collected between class sessions. The disadvantage
of these measures is, of course, that pupils have no access to books at home, which precludes homework,
tutoring, and supplemental reading. Most textbooks (and these are all paper-backs, not hard-cover) last
and are used over three years.
E. Micronutrients: The initial objectives of this component were fully achieved. With the support of
UNICEF, teachers operating within the pilot zone of the micronutrient program were trained within the
second year of the project. 26,000,000 micronutrients (vitamin A, iron, vermifuges, iodized capsules) were
distributed to 165,000 students in the regions of Dosso and Maradi. US$210,000 of the allocated
US$220,000 was disbursed. This program wasn't expanded nation-wide following the mid-term review as
originally proposed, because it was decided at that time that the voluntary teacher training program should
be given top priority for project funds. UNICEF continued to provide micronutrients and vernifuges upon
demand in the pilot areas of Dosso and Maradi.
Component 3: Strengthening Sector Managerial and Planning Capacities:
A. Performance of Resource management and program implementation/evaluation varies. The project
helped the Government produce a statistical inventory on a regular basis as of 1996-1997. During the
project, a strong national team has become adept in school data gathering and processing. School mapping
skills have been developed, and a school map was established on a pilot basis for one region. Although the
school mapping exercise has yet to be officially presented and discussed, it did reveal that many
pedagogical advisors and inspectors retired from service soon after receiving training, leaving a gap in
current teacher supervision practices.
Although a personnel data base was established by the Department of Administrative Affairs and
contributes to the ministry's capacity to manage its human resources, little progress was made in the area of
financial resource management. Participation and consultations with main stakeholders (parents
associations and teachers unions) increased over time, even though the level of accountability remains low.
To improve the capacity of the Ministry of Education to evaluate education programs, this project set
up an evaluation unit (CE) for the purpose of studying and understanding student performance in French,
- 8 -



Mathematics and social studies. A good study was conducted, the involved personnel received good quality
training. The final report awaits discussion and dissemination. The specialists involved in the analyses are
willing to cooperate with both the secretary general's office and INDRAP, the textbook design section to
fiurther this endeavor.
B. Decentralized sector planning and management feU short of expectations. Training in data
collection, school mapping, and personnel management were provided to decentralized units. The
construction and equipping of inspectorates was carried out as planned. However, at the decentralized level
capacity remained low in basic statistics iinalysis and resource management. Returns in training investment
were lowered due to a high tum-over and early retirement of the trained staff.
School mapping and the computenzation of an information system were financed by the French
Cooperation. Computers and data system software were provided to the MoE Department of Statistics,
and the departmental statisticians were trained in their use. The result has been the development of a
uieful, statistical directory, produced in a timely manner over the last three years. Some initial plans were
made for the data collection at the regional level, but equipping regional offices to support computers was
beyond the scope of the project.
C'. The development of a strategy for higher education was not fully achieved. A sector study for the
"Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger" was developed in five volumes in
1999. Though the report was not formally used for the organization of a national debate as foreseen by
the project design, the results of the study were publicized in the press, and the study has been used as a
resource for the design of the follow-on education project. Also, the National Language Study was
executed with the German Development Agency financial support
D'. The Project Unit performance declined over time. Initial investments to the managing unit were
valuable. Unit staff were trained and gained valuable technical experience and skills. However, as time
went on, the unit encountered problems. It was unable to ensure the coordination of either donors or
irtvolved ministerial units as outlined in the initial design of the project. Despite the fact that the DPE was
a unit within the MEN (created by Presidential decree and part of its organizational chart), it acted as a
separate unit and was perceived as such. The unit's efficiency was further affected by the absence of any
systematic personnel performance evaluation which in turn led to insufficiencies in administrative,
financial, and accounting services. Recommendations made in audit reports and during supervision
missions were not readily acted upon.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, neither an estimate of net present value (NPV) nor the economic rate of return (ERR)
was foreseen. However, efforts were made to estimate the cost savings which would be generated by the
mrteasures supported under the project.
The analysis presented in Annex 3 provides the results of the calculation of actual savings
generated by the imnplementation of the principal project measures. In comparing the increase of public
expenditures on primary education with the cost savings obtained over the past five years, a total net
expenditure of FCFA (-9.7 billion) is revealed. This savings allowed for the increased enrollment under a
very tight macroeconomic framework. The high level of net expenditures (as compared with the FCFA 7
billion estimated at appraisal) is attributable to the effect of the contractual teacher recruitment policy after
1998.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
9-



N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The initial sector reform measures implemented at project outset were key in reshaping the
education system and in setting the pace for institutional development and change. Debates and
consultations held around the reform design and project implementation decisions contributed to a change
in behavior and attitude towards a more participatory and inclusive management approach within the
education system.
The decentralization process fell short of expectations, but the level of involvement of the main
stakeholders (including community representatives) and the recognition they were given in considering
education issues at different levels (such as teacher recruitment, school operation and maintenance), has
changed the environment of the education sector and offers great potential for future dialogue regarding
sector development
Although some of the institutional development objectives were not reached early on during this
project due to more immediate needs, project funds were eventually used for the undertaking of nine
studies, which would serve as policy-maldng documents for the Education Sector in general, and for the
preparation of the 10-year plan in particular. These were studies on the Policy Framework, Early
Childhood Development, Primary Education, Elementary Education, Private and Community Education,
Informal Education, School Construction, Health-Nutrition-AIDS, and School guide and textbooks Policy.
While the unstable political situation did not favor a fuller usage of the results of these studies, they
constitute a rich source of information that will serve in the ongoing discussion and strategizing of the
10-year plan.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was greatly influenced by a variety of factors, some of which were
identified at the time of project preparation (risk analysis).
Outside the control of the implementing agency was the chaotic political environment in Niger
during most of the project implementation period. Implementation was slowed because of civil unrest and
teacher and student strikes. Two of the project years were "annees blanches" for the students, meaning
they did not go to school at all. Two other years were aborted before exarns were administered. Both
parents and students interviewed for statistical purposes could often not declare with certainty the school
year the student was currently enrolled in. The outcomes of the planning components (statistical records
and analyses) were obviously curtailed by these circumstances.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Positive factors: The initial strong link of the project with the macro-economic framework gave the
project high visibility while providing the leverage for pursuing and enhancing the dialogue on sector
financing and spending issues. Despite a high turn-over of the ministers and senior staff (8 different
ministers of education in the course of project preparation), a certain stability was maintained by the
presence of a number of unchanged, committed technical staff within the Ministry.
Govemment showed strong commitment to the education sector, undertaidng controversial reforns
in a contentious atmosphere with tight budget constraints, and engaging in courageous and innovative
approaches to fill the needs of the country, such as the hiring of voluntary teachers, which required two
- 10 -



amnendments to the original DCA (in November 1998 to create the "Volunteer teachers salaries"
subcategory, and in January 1999 to establishing a separate special account to facilitate the payment of
salaries and benefits of voluntary teachers). These amendments were pivotal to the stability and
sustainability of the education sector. Without the time and attention given to these issues - to the
detriment, it is true, of some other components - the education sector would have come to a complete
standstill. Consequently, Government's choice to focus on the question was appropriate.
The ability and willingness of some senior staff to persevere in improving the dialogue with the
civil society, in particular teacher unions, on fundamental sector issues was of great importance. Open
dialogue and a spirit of inclusiveness have proven to be effective means to manage and mitigate risks
associated with reform implementation.
Negative factors: It should be noted that the intra-institutional set up of the project coordination
mechanism may have been the cause of some of the difficulties encountered during project implementation.
Not only did some key players not quite master their role, but communication among the various players
did not seem sufficiently developed.
The good quality of donor coordination developed during the project preparation phase deteriorated
during the implementation phase, when many donors suspended their aid to Niger due to the political crisis
and instability. During that period the IDA project was virtually the only source providing external
financing to the education sector in Niger. With the return of stability, there was a tendency towards
proliferation of PIUs, and coordination became more difficult.
5. 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Positive factors: The stability and commitment of the implementation team throughout most of the project
was important The project management team worked well with the IDA missions, organized the MTR,
arnd assured the timely submission of audit reports and other procedures.
Negative factors: Govemment didn't always take the lead in ensuring coordination of donor activities over
the course of the project. Although structures were set up at the start of the project to ensure donor
co.mmunication and cohesiveness, it was not maintained. In the face of uncertainties at the national level,
project activities of the various donors became more and more isolated and stratified. This lack of
coordination resulted in a breakdown of a consistent strategy (regarding textbooks for instance) and in
some poor management decisions (such as the execution of unprogrammed school construction and
rehabilitation activities).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was implemented between 1994 and 2001 at a cost of US$78 million, of which IDA financed
U:S$41.4 million. Additional funding was obtained from Norway ($4.8M US), Germany ($10.2M US),
Belgium ($2M US), and the Government of Niger and its communities ($.2M)..
6. Sustainability
6..! Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Niger is committed to giving education the highest priority, but its economy is not growing, and the
national budget is stretched very thin. The question arises, therefore, as to whether the country has the
capacity to continue to finance the recurrent costs required to maintain activities and investments which
were made under the project. As mentioned earlier, some project activities had already started to suffer
from lack of financial support (CAPED network, school maintenance). Nonetheless the overall
- 11 -



sustainability of project achievements is likely for several reasons. First, the Government's decision to
adopt a recruitment policy of contractual teachers at lower salaries is already bearing fruit (see Annex 3).
Second, in 2002 the Government agreed to cover a number of education costs financed by the project,
including the costs of contractual teachers, out of the general budget. Third, the decision to increase
community involvement and responsibility in school management should help improve the quality of public
expenditures in the sector and ensure more cost-effective maintenance of the infrastructure and equipment.
Fourth, the level of donor support (including IDA) to the Ten-year Program is quite high and will help the
Government expand some of the project's positive results. Overall, given the country's economic
conditions, there is no doubt that continued financial donor support will be required over the medium term
if continued progress in the Education Sector is to be made. The positive achievements described above
will be pivotal in enlisting that support.
The level of risks associated with some of the policy reforms such as the recruitment of contractual
teachers remains quite high and could raise a long run sustainability issue. The open consultations and
discussions held by the Government with main stakeholders including teachers' union (SNEN) and parents'
association (APE) on these issues has proven productive and effective in mitigating these risks, and they
should be re-inforced in the future.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Firstly, Niger now has a firm 10-year-plan, the foundation of which was laid during the current
project. The use of resources in the sector has been improved through multigrade and double-shift
approaches along with the new contractual method of recruiting teachers and increased community
participation.
Secondly, certain principles hammered out during the project under review have now become
standard and accepted ways of working. There has been a general "unbundling" within the Education
Sector through which a sharing of responsibility and financing is slowly becoming more acceptable.
Thirdly, project activities have been streamlined in MOE and are fully integrated into the
ministerial structures. The core activities are being funded under the CY 2002 general budget in the context
of the Public Expenditures Adjustment Credit.
Finally, in view of the above, Government has requested an additional loan in the form of a SIP,
and preparation has begun on a new project design for the "Basic Education Project."
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. Lending:
Bank performance during lending is rated Satisfactory. Though preparation of the project was
delayed during Niger's lengthy transition period (1987-1994), the Bank remained staunchly involved in a
dialogue with each new Ministerial team (8 ministers of education over 8 years), thereby maintaining
consistency and support. Once the Bank Team was able to start full time preparation on the project, its
performance was good. Pre-appraisal and appraisal missions were participatory, donor involvement was
significant, and project documentation was complete with indicators and analyses of issues, risks, and
lessons. At the time, the choice of a hybrid instrument was innovative and somewhat experimental. With
hindsight, it still appears to have been an appropriate decision, since the hybrid nature of the instrument
greatly contributed to the achievement of the dual objective of providing necessary general budgetary
support required by the macroeconomic reforms and promoting sectoral reforms, while better linking the
sector to the macroeconomic framework.
- 12 -



7.2 Supervision:
Bankperformance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. The project was supervised with
consistency and thoroughness. The same Task Team Leader managed the project throughout and was
based in the field, working from the country office, which increased his ability to supervise project
actitivies continually and competently. Supervision missions were regular and fairly well documented, with
te;ans of adequate skills-mix. A large "Midterm Review Meeting" was held just previous to the MTR
mission at which time all outstanding issues were discussed and a plan developed for dealing with them.
Advice continued to be shared by all team members throughout the mission, but no financial management
specialist was present in the field at that time, which would have been preferable. In general, problems
(vehicle use, textbook issues, and lack of in-service training) were flagged early, and Bank staff made
recommendations for appropriate solutions.
The Bank team worked continually with the Ministry of Education to develop and implement
altemative solutions for increased enrollment at a cost-effective rate. It consistently worked with the
Borrower on establishing strong, quality indicators. At mid-term review, the Bank demnonstrated great
flexibility in finding ways to respond proactively to the sector's essential needs.
At mid-term, project disbursements were behind schedule, and project activities were not moving as
well as hoped. A variety of implementation issues were examined jointly by the Bank team and the
Borrower, and recommendations were made to improve project progress. Nonetheless, problems continued
to surface at the level of the management of the project unit. Personnel changes to the unit were ultimately
carried out, but at the ICR mission, it was apparent that dissatisfaction with the unit persisted despite IDA
recommendations.
7. 3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The team spirit in which this program was developed
set a precedent of Bank-Borrower-Beneficiary cooperation which has been maintained and will hopefully be
coatinued in the future.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
BorrowerperfornanceforPreparation is ratedsatisfactory. As mentioned earlier (see Quality at
Entry), the preparation period of this project corresponded to a period of intense strife and unstable
political conditions in Niger. Nonetheless, the Bonrower was able to maintain ongoing dialogue with the
Bank and move forward with controversial reforrn proposals. The Minister of Plan, the Secretary Generals
of the Presidency and of the Ministry of Education, and other individual ministers were active and involved
in the project preparation.
7.Z. Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Effectiveness was delayed for 1 1
months while some basic changes to the macro-economic policy framework were laboriously hammered
ouL The Borrower finally took all the measures (revenue enhancement, wage bill containment, etc.),
ne:essary to bring the framework into line with the objectives of the Program and the project moved into
implementation.
The Borrower was fully involved in the project from the start. It conducted a successful Project
Launch Seminar and continued to take responsibility for many aspects of the project. The Sectoral Reform
Pr)gram was implemented by 1997, resulting in direct and indirect budgetary savings of about 3.2 billion
- 13 -



CFAF, and public resource allocation to primary education increased through the refonns, as expected. In
the face of almost constant turbulance within the Education Sector, Government persevered in looking for
viable solutions allowing them to provide basic education, with increased enrollment, but at low cost.
The Borrower participated actively in mid-term review assessments and developed solutions jointly
with the Bank team for improved implementation (establishment of an Education Sector Coordinating Unit,
transfer of bidding oversight to BIES, increased dialogue among component coordinators. However, the
quality of coordination of various projects and other interventions in both the ministry and the sector has
lagged behind expectations, and the continued dissatisfaction of many component directors shows that
improvements are needed in future management.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall ImplementingAgency performance is rated unsatisfactory. The Education Projects Unit
(DPE), placed within the MOE, developed experience and skills over the life of the project. The personnel
remained fairly constant, but ambiguities in the job descriptions gave rise to some major concerns after the
mid-term review, when the Project Director left for another position. Disbursement procedures (lagging
already at over 30% at MTR) slowed down, supervision of civil works was not carried out, and support to
the regions was interrupted.
The accounting/management personnel, which did not change throughout the project, ensured timely
submission of audit reports, some of which were fully acceptable. (A few reports, though not
unacceptable, were qualified, and recommendations from IDA were duly sent to the project unit in that
regard). Project accounting was acceptable maintained, and records were available at the end of the
project. However, in the last two years some poor management decisions made by DPE staff led to the
execution of unprogrammed civil work activities. Project financial management conditions were not
fulfilled. Information on disbursements was not forthcoming. Double-shift teacher and voluntary teacher
salaries got backed up over three months, and some civil work and supplier payments were outstanding.
To resolve the issue, the Government will pay the unpaid contracts and reimburse the project account for
the amount spent on unaccepted expenditures.
Lines of cornmunication and accountability became increasingly fragile between the project unit and
the tutelle ministry as well as between the project unit and component directors (including requests
regarding respective budgets, for example). At the midterm review, plans to rectify the identified problems
(weak coordination and communication between component coordinators and the project unit, unclear
finance and procurement management, and an incomplete project procurement filing system) were
developed, but these issues were not fully resolved by the time the project director left the unit. Subsequent
management remained rather difficult as described above.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. With the backdrop of school disturbances from
both student and teacher strikes, the Borrower must be given credit for holding strong to its reform
program, achieving increased access to students, increasing teacher availability, and supporting a new
method of teaching.
8. Lessons Learned
The financial instrument:
The hybridfinancial instrument increased effectiveness in the implementation of sectoral reforms
There has been a long debate on the effectiveness of adjustment credit to deal with sector reform. The
lesson learned from this operation does not totally answer this question. However, there seems to be some
- 14 -



evidence that the hybrid nature of the instrument improved the link between the sector and the
macroeconomic framework and enlarged the base for alliance and support to the reform measures. This, in
turn, increased the project's visibility, which helped sustain the implementation of core measures, after the
quick disbursements were executed.
Access and Quality:
Cost-sharing in school construction raised implementation and equity issues. Although financial
contributions for classroom construction were solicited from communities, this often gave rise to tensions.
The unit cost of building schools decreased compared to the cost under Public Works, but it is still high,
relatively speaking. Some communities, particularly in rural areas, had trouble mobilizing the funds needed
to build. In view of the level of poverty in Niger, community ownership might be better built by soliciting
more involvement in the decision-making aspects of school management: school-site selection, the
provision of land in rural areas, the daily supervision of the construction work, and later on, participation in
school maintenance. It is important that extremely poor communities (particularly in rural areas) be
sensitized early on, so they have time to plan ways to make a significant contribution. Empowering
measures and greater responsibility in activities such as daily supervision of the construction work and then
involvement in school maintenance are effective means of increasing ownership. Although an important
volume of construction was carried out, the technical supervision of the construction was weak. In the
future, effective accountability and control mechanisms of the construction process must be ensured.
Good leadership and sustained commitment to the implementation of measures ensuring
improved quality of education are key. The project succeeded more in terms of access than in terms of
quality. In general, the wide sensitization campaigns helped increase demand for education, particularly in
rural areas and for girls. The massive effort to improve access did not, however, favor quality. It is
important in the future to ensure that such an effort is followed by concrete measures to improve the quality
of the teaching and learning. It is only this improved quality of education that will inspire parents to keep
their children in school.
The implementation of teacher recruitment reforms requires time, patience, and an adequate risk
management strategy. The decision made by the Government to introduce the recruitment of contractual
teachers in 1998 at MTR was an innovation which took place under exceptionally tense financial conditions
nation-wide. Its implementation required extensive, open discussions with the main stakeholders, in
particular with the teacher unions (who originally considered the changes to be transitory measures rather
than a new recruitment policy). The reform had to be implemented by degrees, providing the Government
time to build consensus among the various actors and to consolidate the system. Though the short-term
benefit of this reform lies in the economies resulting from the lower salary grid of the contractual teachers,
the long-term benefit resides in the efficiency gains associated with the enhanced involvement of local
community in teacher recruitment and management as well as the flexibility provided by the fixed-term
contract.
Efficient textbook distribution is key to ensuring availability of books in the classroom.
Discrepancies between availability of textbooks in classrooms and the level of expenditures on textbooks
leads to recommendations for the future: (i) Project implementation unit must scrupulously plan the
procurement processes and closely monitor the implementation of textbook contracts to ensure the delivery
of the books on time; (ii) Books should be packed per school by suppliers and delivered to the schools by
suppliers or private distributors; (iii) Books should be received in the schools by school/textbook
management committees or school directors in the presence of teachers, students, parents and other
members of the community. During the reception, each copy should be stamped on several pages and
recorded; (iv) Inspectors, other supervision persornel and school directors should make sure that books are
- 15 -



effectively used and taken care of by teachers and students.
Communication and Coordination. Because of the past history of turbulence and distrust in
Niger, a participatory approach and clear, thorough explanations regarding project activities are of
paramount importance. Communications between the coordinating unit and component directors must be
comfortable and frequent. Measures taken by the Ministry should be communicated by appropriate public
media, so that school directors, university professors, teachers, students, and union members are all
apprised. Donors, too, must be active participants in decisions taken by the project. Both current and any
new project activities need to be discussed and explained fully and openly, particularly with those affected
by the changes, thereby building a team spirit of cooperation in the effort to improve the education sector
overall. Furthermore, to assure a more efficient project management, not only should roles and
responsibilities be clarified from the outset - especially within the PIU and between it and the Ministerial
administration - but they should also be carefully monitored and reevaluated throughout the project.
Financial management reviewers would recommend that: (i) personnel performance and
evaluation procedures - written up in a manual of administrative, financial, and accounting management -
be rigorously followed; (ii) the financial management coordination unit for the project produce and publish
a quarterly activity report for distribution to all involved partners, including the Office of the Prime
Minister.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The ten-page synthesis of the Borrower's evaluation of the project is attached in Annex 8. The Borrower
is in general satisfied that the project, despite the difficult conditions, was fully implemented. The
Government continued to perceive the project as relevant and having had an impact especially on access,
equity and participation. The borrower appreciated the continued commitment of IDA without which the
project's implementation would have been impossible. The main difficulties deplored by the borrower in
the project implementation and the achievement of its objectives were political instability and low
technical capacity. Where the borrower perceives the greatest challenge remains quality which it vows to
address through a new program under preparation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A completion report was submitted by the Dutch in October 1998, detailing their contribution to
both the Education II project and the Hybrid Education Sector.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
At the end of the ICR mission, the Borrower organized a half day workshop on April 25, 2002, at
which the Govemment's version of the ICR was presented and discussed. Both Government.and
international partners attended the workshop. There was general agreement by all that the project succeeded
in laying the foundation for the development of basic education and succeeded in creating a participatory
process despite difficult political conditions. It was also agreed by all that the Borrower will continue to
face an enormous challenge to improve the quality of teachers and teaching conditions in order to improve
learning. Finally, the Borrower will have to address other issues such as the over- centralization of
decision-making and a weak management capacity at all levels. There was general consensus that
Government should pursue measures to address these problems through the ten-year program under
preparation.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Irmact Indicators:
Indicator        Actual       Target by EOP      May 1997       Statistical Directory
Baseline fiom                                        2000-2001
PR (1994)
Gross primary school    29%             35%             30.3%              37.3%
enrollment rate
Share of girls'        22.2%            40%              23.4%             39.6%
enrollment in primary
education
Percentage of           16%             10%               13%           12.47 (99/00)
epetition in primary
Percentage of students  34%             20%              N.A.               33%
failing CFEPD
School supplies      FCFA 80m       FCFA 80 m.                              553
Subsidies for Higher  FCFA 5.5b.     CFA 3.5 b.       FCFA 3.7 b.        CFA 3.5 b.
Ed scholarships
Subsidies for        FCFA 1.6b.      CFA 1.6 b.        CFA 1.6 b         CFA 1.6 b.
Secondary Ed
scholarships
Output Indicators:
Indicator              Target EOP              MTR           Latest Estimate (2000)
Construction of primary         1,770                861 total      1774 of which 290 (by
classrooms                                                         IDA) remaining by others
Rehabilitation of primary        1,500                  631                1,500
classrooms
Number of teachers              3,000             500 CAPED in              N.A.
receiving 4-week                                     operation
retraining sessions
Double-shift classrooms          690                   700                  892
Primary textbooks              1.6 million           579,000              840,000
provided
Mathematics workbooks          1.2 million           353,000             353,000
provided
Teachers' guides provided       30,000                23,000              62,000
Children receiving              165,000               165,000             165,000
micronutrient intervention
National Language               75,000           35 manuscripts in         75,000
Books distributed                                    process
Some figures were unavailable due to the break-down of data collection during certain troubled times
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. :       -v ' Appraisal             Actual/lLatest  Percentage of
Estimate   ..-Estimitte      A ppraisal
, , P'roject'CostBy Corponent'         US$ million    S$ million:
Implementing a Sectoral Reform Program (Quick        17.48          17.48            100
Disbursing)
Improving Access and Quality
Construction                                    4.30            5.71           1.32
Girls'education                                  1.10           0.51            46
Primary School teachers TRG                      5.80           1.21             20
Primary School textbooks                         6.00           0.57              6
Micronutrient Program                            0.30           0.30            100
MEN                                                   1.70           3.22            188
Decentralized sector                                 1.70            2.11            124
Strategy for Higher Education                        0.30            0.30            100
Contractual Teachers and overtime cost of double shift:  0.00        6.70            670
recipients of REALLOCATED FUNDS
Total Baseline Cost                                  38.68          38.11
Physical Contingencies                               1.40           1.40            100
Price Contingencies                                  1.40           1.40            100
Total Project Costs             41.48           40.91
Total Financing Required              41.48          40.91
The DCA stipulated that Norway would finance a $4.8 rnillion grant and that Germany would finance a
$10.2 million grant. In fact, a Norwegian Grant of $4.8 mnillion was signed in October 1994; Germany
undertook the Language Study with its own financing; a Belgian Grant of about $2.6 million was signed in
July 1996.
The President's Report reflected a total project cost of 75.80, of which the IDA Credit was $41.4 million
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB                       N.B.F.'    Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          4.60         2.40         12.60        19.60
(0.00)        (4.60)       (2.20)        (0.00)       (6.80)
2. Goods                      7.00          4.10         0.20         11.20        22.50
(7.00)        (4.10)       (0.20)        (0.00)      (11.30)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         1.80          0.00         1.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
4. TRG                        0.00          0.00         1.80          0.00         1.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
5. Direct Imports (Quick     17.20         0.00          0.00         2.80         20.00
Disbursing                  (17.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (17.20)
-18 -



6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          2.36          7.80         10.16
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.36)        (0.00)        (2.36)
Total                       24.20          8.70         8.56          34.40        75.86
(24.20)        (8.70)       (8.36)        (0.00)       (41.26)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimatel (US$ million equivale nt)
-Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       2CB           NCB          O             N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
0           (0.00)        (5.32)        (0.00)  _    (5.32)
2. Goods                       2.77          2.77          0.44          0.00         5.98
(2.77)        (2.77)        (0.44)        (0.00)       (5.98)
3. Services                    1.53          0.00          0.66          0.00         2.19
(1.53)        (0.00)        (0.66)        (0.00)       (2.19)
4. TRG                         1.23          0.00          1.23          0.00         2.46
(1.23)        (0.00)        (1.23)        (0.00)       (2.46)
5.. Direct Imports (Quick     17.48          0.00          0.00         0.00          17.48
Disbursing                    (17.48)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (17.48)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          7.50          0.00         7.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (7.50)        (0.00)       (7.50)
Total                       23.01         2.77          9.83          0.00         35.61
1   (23.01)        (2.77)       (15.15)        (0.00)      (40.93)
Goods includes micro-nutrient component, furn, equip; pedag. mat, girls fund, education improvement, and
PROSEF (unit)
Miscellaneous includes volunteer teachers and incremental recurrent costs
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Ilncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Since participation of funding to this project was through parallel financing, with no fund management of
partner funds by IDA, there is no breakdown of component financing between IDA and co-financiers.
Germany donated a grant of $10 m; Norway a grant of $4.8 m.
-19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, no estimate of either the net present value (NPV) or the economic rate of return
(ERR) was prepared. However, efforts have now been made to estimate the cost savings generated by the
measures supported under the project.
The analysis presented below attempts to calculate the actual savings generated by the
implementation of the main measures and compare them to the initial estimates. Given the available data,
this analysis will cover the following three aspects: (i) the use of double-shift teaching; (ii) the primary
teachers'salaries; and (iii) the containment of student subsidies.
1. Use of double-shift teaching
Double-shift teaching has allowed for the enrollment of 417,821 pupils in urban areas over the past
five school years. About half of those children would not have been educated in the absence of this
measure, given the limited resources for increased demand in public education in these urban areas.
Double-shifting resulted in a total cost savings of CFAF 7.2 billion as presented in Table 1 (not including
savings related to the training of new teachers). This is higher than the estimated CFAF 5.8 billion savings
estimated at appraisal, because the initial project objective of 1380 pupil-groups per year was largely
exceeded during implementation (34%).
Table 1: Cost Savings generated by the Double shift teaching (FCFA million)
1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01  Total
Number of classes              906    978    950     911     892
Pupil-groups                  1812   1955   1879    1822    1783
Number of pupils             82050  87988  85531   82012   80240 417821
Cost Savings
Teachers                       906    978    950     911     892   4637
Salary cost                  565.3  610.3  592.8    568.5  556.6 2893.5
Classroom construction      3986.4  316.8                         4303.2
Total                       4551.7  927.1  592.8    568.5  556.6  7196.7
2. Primary teachers' salaries
Under the project to keep primary school salary costs down, the Teacher Training Centers annually
recruited 85% INA and 15% IN rather than the 46% INA and 54% IN recruited in the past. Further
savings were introduced with the adoption of the recruitment policy concerning contractual teachers. This
became an essential sector reform, on which long-term financing sustainability greatly depends. Both
measures helped significantly increased the number of teachers recruited (7381 over the past six years)
while generating some CFAF 2.3 billion cost-savings (see table 2).
- 20 -



Table 2: Cost saving generated by teacher recruitment measures (in FCFA millions)
1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01  Total
1. Teacher recruitment
-Ina                         602    442    442     442            156    2084
-IN                          120     78     78      78            100     454
-NE                                                791    2005   2047    4843
Total                        722    520    520     1311   2005    2303   7381
2. Salary paid               581.9  417.2  417.2   749.5   842.1  1078.5  4086.4
3. Salary costs without reform  628.5  452.6  452.6  1141.1  1745.2 2004.6  6424.7
4. Cost savings (3-2)         46.6   35.4   35.4   391.7   903.1   926.2  2338.3
VE: Contractual teachers
3. Containment of student subsidies
The measures taken to control the rapidly increasing trend in scholarship for students (secondary
and higher education) generated about CFAF 10 billion over the past five years.
Table 3: Cost savings generated by student subside control measures (in FCFA millions)
1996    1997   1998   1999    2000    Total
1. Controlled allocations
- Secondary schools          1667   1667   1600    1133     897   6964
- University                 3700   3700   3700    3700    3700   18500
Total                        5367   5367   5300    4833    4597  25464
2. Uncontrolled allocations 1/
- Secondary schools          1600   1600   1600    1600    1600   8000
- University                 5500   5500   5500    5500    5500  27500
Total                        7100   7100   7100    7100    7100  35500
0
3.Costsavings(2-1)            1733   1733   1800    2267    2503   10036
1/: Baseline scenario, e.g. 1993-94 allocations are kept over the period
4. Estimates of the net expenditures (1997-2001)
The comparison of the supported increase of public expenditures on primary education with the
cost savings obtained over the past five years shows a total net expenditure of CFAF 9.7 billion, which
allowed the increase of enrollment under a very tight macroeconomic framework. The high level of net
expenditures (as compared with the CFAF 7.0 billion estimated at appraisal) is attributable to the effect of
the contractual teachers recruitnient after 1998.
-21 -



Table 4: Estimates of net expenditures (1997-2001)
1997   1998    1999     2000   2001    Total
l.Increase of public Expenditures
-Teachers salaries                   417.2  417.2    749.5   842.1  1078.5  3504.5
-Inputs (materials and supplies)      320    479      715     624    1177    3315
-Classrooms constructions 1/          600     600     600     600     600    3000
Total                              1337.2 1496.2  2064.5   2066.1  2855.5  9819.5
2. Cost savings
-Double shit teaching               4551.7  927.1    592.8   568.5  556.6  7196.7
- Teachers recruitments               35.4   35.4    391.7   903.1  926.2  2291.8
- Student subsides                    1733   1733    18002    267    2503   10036
Total                               6320.1 2695.5   2784.5  3738.6  3985.8 19524.5
3. Net expenditures (1-2)           -4982.9  -1199    -720 -1672.5 -1130.3   -9705
1/: Estimates (Actual figures not available)
-22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                    Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
5/3/88                     3   ECON, EDU, ASST
9/14/88                    3   EDU, ECON (2)
2/10/89                    8   EDU (2), ECON (2), PED MAT,
ARCH, PLAN, ASST
Appraisal/Negotiation
7/21/89                    8   EDU (2), ECON (2), VOC,
PED MAT, ARCH, PLAN
7/30/93                    1   EDU
4/8/94                     4   EDU, GIRLS, NUT, HR
Supervision
10/31/95                   3   ED SPEC (2) ASST                S             S
4/19/96                    3   ED SPEC, PROG OFF, ASST          S            S
10/8/96                    2   ED SPEC, PROG OFF                S            S
3/12/97                    4   ED SPEC (2), PROG OFF,           S            S
ARCH
10/14/97                   2   ED SPEC, PROG OFF                S            S
4/30/98                    2   ED SPEC, PROG OFF                S            S
10/13/98                   5   ED SPEC PROG OFF (2) ASST        S            S
(2)
5/10/99                    1   ED SPEC                          S            S
7/11/99                    2   ED SPEC, PROG OFF                S            S
5/22/00                    2   ED SPEC (2)                      S            S
10/8/00                    1   FIN ANAL                         S            S
12/6/00                    2   EDU SPEC, ECON                   S            S
4/11/01                    2   ECON, HLTH SPEC                  S            S
10/10/01                   3   ECON, FIN MGT, PROC              S            S
ICR
4/16/2002                  6   ECON, OPER, GIRLS,               S            S
TXTBKS, ARCH, EDUC
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             NA                  192,326.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                  192,326.00
Supervision                            NA                  477,825.19
ICR                                    NA                      40,000
Total                                  NA                  902,477.19
Total for LEN = 384,652 including trust fund monies; SPN includes Belgian Funds
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
Sector Policies                    O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Physical                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
 Financial                           OH   OSUOM     ON   ONA
F Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M    0 N 0 NA
Oi Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N O NA
Gender                         OH *SUOM ON ONA
G Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU *M    0 N 0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHSOS        OU    OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       O u    O HU
2 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       * U   O HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aides-Memoires from throughout the project (18 missions)
Development Plan for Primary Education - Completion Report (Projet de Developpement de
l'Enseignement Primaire - Rapport d'Achevement) Don Hollandais TF22964; October 1998.
Girls' Education Component - Completion Report (Rapport d'Achevement du Programme de. la Cellule
Technique pour la Promotion de la Scolarisation des Filles au Niger).
Implementation Plan, Component 1, Vol.1 (Manuel d'Execution, Composante 2, Volet 1); B.I.E.S.;
September 1994.
Medium Term Financial Plan 2002-2005 (Projet de Cadre de Programmation Financiere d Moyen Terme
du Secteur
Education -- 2002-2005).
Private and Community Education in Niger - Completion Report and Annexes (Etude sur le
developpement de l'Enseignement Prive et Communautaire au Niger, Rapport Final (vol 1) et Annexes
(vol 2)); Eric LaVendhomme, Jean-Marie Luttringer, Hamidou Soumana Diallo; July 2000.
Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors, May 5, 1994
School Attendance Simulations and School Mapping Exercise for Dosso (Projection des Effectifs et Carte
Scolaire Prospective du Departement de Dosso); INSE, September 2001.
Sector Study for the Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger-Summary (
Etude Sectorielle pour la Preparation d'une Strategie de D&eeloppement de l'Enseignement Superieur au
Niger-Rapport de Synthese); Paul Bachelard, September 1999.
Sector Study for the Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger-Economic
Analysis
(Economie de l'Education dans le Systeme d'Enseignement Superieur du Niger); Joachim Lama;
September 1999.
Sector Study for the Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger-Academic
Organization and Qualitative Aspects (Organisation Academique et Aspects Qualitatifs de l'Enseignement
Superieur);Y. Ismael, 1999.
Sector Study for the Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger-University
Management and Administration (Management et Administration des Universites); Mamoudou Djibo;
September 1999.
Sector Study for the Preparation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education in Niger -
Scholastic/Professional Orientation and Informational Organization for students (Orientation scolaire et
professionnelle, et organisation de l'information des eleves et des etudiants); Idrissa Soumana; September
1999.
Study on the Management and Distribution of School Books in Niger (Etude sur la gestion et la
-26-



distribution des manuels scolaires au Niger), Cabinet d'Etudes en sciences sociales et humaines,
February 2000.
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8.B orrower's Completion Report (excluding tables, too large for format)
Summary in English
A follow-up to the Primary Education Project (Credit 1740-NIR) the present Basic Education
Sector Project (Cr. 2618-NE) was a hybrid, so named because it contained a reform element and an
investment element. With a 29.5% GER at the start of the project (October 1995), Niger was one of only 5
countries in the world with only 1/3 of its school-aged population having access to education. The project
lasted six years and used US$78 million.
The objectives enumerated for the Reform Section of the project are the same as in the Bank ICR.
The major conclusions regarding the reforms that grew out of the project are as follows: Although the
voluntary teacher mechanism may be able to respond to a rapid demand for basic education, it may also
lead to the destabilization of the school work force if teachers are not sufficiently motivated and leave the
force as soon as something better becomes available to them. Consequently a communications strategy
must be developed to counteract and head off misunderstandings and tensions due to short-term transitional
measures.
Regarding the Investment Section of the project, although one might consider the quantitative
objectives to be effectively reached, one cannot say the same for the objectives in relationship to the quality
of basic education. Recommendations put forth in regards to this section are the following: (i) closely
define the functions of Ministry personnel, particularly in light of the 10-year-plan, and offer training to
eliminate current deficiencies; (ii) undertake organizational restructuring of the Ministry of Basic Education
to better meet the challenges of educational reform laid out by the 10-year plan; (iii) carefully review the
studies done during the current project in order to glean maximum information from them in coming up
with innovative approaches for the future; (iv) give proper importance to quality by developing a
monitoring unit (combining the cunrent pedagogical unit and evaluation unit) which will work with regional
teams in developing programs covering research, training, knowledge sharing, and remediation; (v) ensure
that Education Ministerial units (both central and peripheral) have the means and the personnel to
effectively carry out their mandates.
- 28 -



REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION DE BASE
DIRECTION DES PROJETS EDUCATION
BP. 11.897 Niamey
Te1. (227) 72 35 16
(227) 72 25 26
FAX. (227) 72 27 97
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET SECTORIEL DE
L'ENSEIGNEMIENT FONDAMENTAL (PROSEF)
(RWsumk)
CREDIT IDA 2618 NIR
1995 - 1996 / 2000 - 2001
Hamidou LAILABA
Coordonnateur Technique et Pedagogique
Niamey, le 30 Mai 2002
-29-



lIN TRODUCTION
FIaisant suite au Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignement Primaire (PRODEP, 1986-1995, Credit IDA
1740 NIR), le Programme Sectoriel de l'Enseignement Fondamental (PROSEF) est un projet hybride, ainsi
appele parce que combinant un Programme Sectoriel de Reforme (PSR) et un Programme Sectoriel
cl'Investissement (PSI), voulu pour contribuer a la rehabilitation et au developpement du secteur education
au Niger sur la periode 1995-1996/2000-2001.
Avec 29,5 % de taux brut de scolarisation au moment du demarrage du PROSEF (octobre 1995), le Niger
comptait au nombre des cinq (5) pays de la planete qui parvenaient a assurer l'acces a l'institution scolaire
A 1/3 a peine de leur population scolarisable. Dans le cas specifique du Niger, il etait d'autant plus urgent
d'e mettre en place un projet de l'envergure du PROSEF que la scolarisation avait amorce une dynamique de
regression qu'il fallait imperativement maitriser et inverser. En effet, parti de 3% de taux brut de
scolarisation quand il accedait a l'ind6pendance en 1960, le Niger etait parvenu a porter cet indicateur a 30
%v' en 1989, apres des efforts veritablement titanesques, au vu de la masse de priorites et de defis auxquels
devaient faire face les pouvoirs publics avec des ressources aussi limitees que precaires. Mis en place pour
etre partie integrante d'un Programme d'Urgence de Rehabilitation du Secteur Education (PURSE), le
FROSEF en sera finalement la composante la plus visible du fait de sa taille et de son organisation qui
btanche nettement d'avec l'informalisation de ce programme qui ne s'est appuye sur aucune forme de
coordination.
Ainsi qu'il est donne de le constater dans l'organigramme ci-apres, la vision que l'on doit avoir de ce projet
est celle d'une totalite coherente dont les parties (programmes, composantes et sous-composantes) sont
organisees en un reseau dynamique de relations et d'interrelations, mediates ou immediates, voulues pour
etre le cadre d'une synergie devant deboucher sur des resultats mesurables, en rapport avec les urgences et
les imperatifs d'un choix strat6gique qui accorde la plus haute priorite au developpement de l'ducation de
base. Feront l'objet d'un regard particulierement attentif: (i) les mesures sectorielles de reforme envisagees
pour la valorisation d'espaces de liberte oui des initiatives courageuses de gestion doivent pouvoir
rationaliser l'utilisation des ressources d'education et poser les jalons de traditions de management a meme
d'assurer des 6conomies devant conforter le developpement de l'education de base; (ii) la promotion de la
scolarisation des files, dont la proportion dans l'enseignement de base I doit passer de 37,51% (1995-1996)
a 40% en 2000-2001 ; (iii) la reduction des disparites entre la zone urbaine et la zone rurale oiu le TBS est
canse passer de 21,6% a 37 % a terme echu; (iv) le relevement de la qualite de l'enseignement devant se
traduire par une reduction substantielle des taux de redoublement sur l'ensemble du cycle et dans la classe
terminale (CM2) ; (v) 1'expansion de l'offre en quantite et en qualite pour faire face a l'accroissement de la
population scolarisable et (vi) F'amelioration des capacites institutionnelles de planification et de gestion du
MEB en vue de relever les perfonnances des organes de gestion de l'education autant que de leurs
animateurs.
Le PROSEF a eu une duree de vie de six (6) ans. II a dispose d'une enveloppe de soixante dix huit (78)
millions de dollars des Etats Unis. Parvenu a terme 6chu, il doit faire l'objet d'une evaluation sommative. II
s'agira de rendre compte des resultats enregistres et des enseignements a tirer aussi bien de ces resultats que
diu processus de mise en ceuvre.
- 30 -



PREMIERE PARTIE:
DE L'EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME SECTORIEL DE REFORME (PSR)
I.     OBJECTIFS
Le Programme Sectoriel de Reforme (PSR) se compose d'un corpus de mesures destin6es A mettre en place
les bases d'une gestion rationnelle des ressources d'education et A generer des economies devant etre
utifisees A conforter le developpement de l'education de base d'un double point de vue quantitatif et
qualitatif. Ces mesures ont concem6 :
Ia formation de 720 enseignants par an dans les ENI A raison de 15% d'instituteurs et de
85%    d'instituteurs - adjoints et le recrutement de 520 d'entre eux sur la duree du
projet;
*      I'expansion de la double vacation qui doit comprendre 1380 cohortes de 55 eleves
chacune en 1996 et evoluer A raison de 1340 la premiere annee et 1380 cohortes pour
chacune des annees suivantes;
I'augmentation de la ligne fournitures du budget du MEB selon une progression de 80
millions de FCFA par an sur la duree du projet;
*      Ia reduction des bourses du superieur de 4,5 A 3,5 milliards de CFA et le mnaintien des
allocations des eleves du secondaire A 1,6 milliard de FCFA;
*      le redeploiement de 32 professeurs d'ENI en sumombre;
*      Ia resiliation des contrats de 76 professeurs en poste dans le second degre;
*      le redeploiement de 24 enseignants du secondaire public vers le prive;
*      le relevement des charges horaires hebdomadaires des professeurs de college A 21 heures
et de celles des professeurs de lycee a 18 heures;
*      Ia libralisation des tarifs de l'enseignement prive;
*      Ia reforme des programnes des ENI et la reduction de la duree de la formation dans ces
etablissements A un (1) an pour les instituteurs et A deux (2) ans pour les instituteurs -
adjoints;
*      la transformation de la Faculte de Pedagogie en Ecole Normale Superieure en vue d'une
collaboration systematique de cet 6tablissement avec le MEB.
H. RESULTATS
L'ensemble de ces mesures ont et executees. On soulignera que les initiatives prises en matiere de
recrutement sont meme allees au-delA des objectifs du Programme Sectoriel de Reforme. En effet, outre le
recrutement de 2538 enseignants par l'Etat sur fonds propres pour un objectif de 2600, la creation du
volontariat pour l'education A la rentree de 1998 a permis de recruter 791 VE en 1998, 2005 VE en 1999
et 2047 VE en 2000, soit un total de 4843 formateurs de ce. statut. Les VE per,oivent chacun un pecule de
35.000 FCFA par mois. Le recrutement des enseignants titulaires (2538) s'est fait selon une quotite de
17,88 % d'instituteurs et de 82,12% d'instituteurs - adjoints. La creation du volontariat a permis de
realiser une economie de 1.818.679.000 FCFA sur les charges salariales. Quant a l'expansion du double
flux (pratique jusqu'au CE2 dans tous les etablissements publics des centres urbains), elle a permis
d'economiser 3.180.017.300 FCFA en charges salariales et 4.204.817.300 FCFA en infrastructures et
equipements, soit un total de 7.204.817.300 FCFA. Le double flux a compte respectivement pour 2,78 %,
5,32%, 5,54%, 5,20%, 4,83% et 4,56% dans la formation du TBS en 95/96, 96/97, 97/98, 98/99, 99/00 et
-31 -



00/01.
III. RECOMMANDATIONS
Autant le volontariat constitue un facteur en mesure d'assurer un developpement prodigieux de I'education
de base, autant il represente potentiellement un facteur de destabilisation dont il convient de desamorcer la
capacite d'entropie. Cela reviendra A assurer au volontaire la possibilite d'acceder au mieux-etre qu'il
pourrait etre tent; de rechercher dans d'autres secteurs que I'education si I'avenir lui offrait de meilleures
perspectives d'emploi.
L'experience demontre que les mesures de reforme visant a rationaliser la gestion des ressources I'education
et A degager des economies entrainent generalement une levee de boucliers. II est demontre avec la creation
du volontariat et l'impact d'une etude comme Contraintes et espaces de liberte pour le developpement en
quantite et en qualite de l'education au Niger (A. Mingat et al., 1999) que la pertinence des initiatives de
communication strategique et des arguments peuvent opportunement prevenir les tensions que suscitent
g6n6ralement ces mesures. La strategie du partenariat et celle consistant A renforcer la capacite de jugement
des acteurs et partenaires de l'education sur la base d'analyses exhaustives est manifestement porteuse. II
est souhaitable que le management du programme decennal s'en inspire.
DEUXIEME PARTIE:
DE L'EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME SECTORIEL D'INVESTISSEMENT (PSI)
Ce programme se decline en deux composantes qui sont (i) l'amrlioration de l'accessibilite et de la qualite
de l'enseignement de base I et (ii) le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles de planification et de
gestion du MEB.
I.     DE L'AMELIORATION DE L'ACCES AU CYCLE DE BASE I ET DE SA QUALITE
1.     Objectifs et modalit6s de mise en euvre de la composante
L'am6lioration de l'acces au Cycle de Base I et de la qualite de 1'enseignement qui y est dispense est en
continuite avec des activites essentielles du Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignement Primaire
(PRODEP) auquel a succede le PROSEF. En la matiere, le PRODEP avait deja jete les bases de cette
composante en developpant une strategie d'amrlioration de l'accessibilite physique des infrastrctures
scolaires couplee avec une strategie d'amelioration de l'accessibilit6 culturelle et economique des ouvrages
scolaires. C'est a ce double titre que furent construites 982 salles de classe neuves dans le cadre du
PRODEP qui confia par ailleurs A l'INDRAP le soin de reactualiser les programmes scolaires et la
redaction des manuels de l'enseignement primaire et du premier cycle de 1'enseignement secondaire. Ces
activites furent completees par des actions ayant interesse la formnation des formateurs, la formation des
formateurs de formateurs, la gestion des ecoles, des personnels et du materiel. Un programme
d'informatisation fut egalement mis en place en vue du renforcement des capacites de gestion. Projet
sectonel hybride compose d'un programme structurel de reforme et d'un programme structurel
d'investissement, le PROSEF a le plus significativement interesse l'enseignement primaire en faveur duquel
devaient etre confortes les acquis du PRODEP et developpees de nouvelles strategies aussi bien en matiere
,de reforme structurelle, d'amrlioration de l'acces et de la qualite qu'en matiere d'amelioration de
l'efficacite de la planification et de la gestion sectorielles decentralisees. Le PSR se presente comme un
ensemble de mesures que l'on peut considerer comme le socle necessaire sur lequel s'appuie le PSI. Quels
sont les resultats obtenus ?
- 32 -



2. Les resultats globaux
Tableau I
Profil des resultats de la composante amelioration de l'acces au cycle de base I et de sa qualite
(see supporting documents)
3. Conclusion et perspectives
Si les objectifs de developpement quantitatif ont et atteints, on ne peut nullement en dire de meme de ceux
relatifs A l'amelioration de la qualite de l'enseignement. II importe de souligner que c'est essentiellement le
croit de la scolarisation en milieu rural , et tout particulierement de la scolarisation des filles , qui a tire la
croissance des effectifs. Trois regions sont tout particulierement a la base des progres enregistres. II s'agit
de Maradi, Tahoua et Dosso. La sensibilisation etant un aspect necessaire de la promotion de la
scolarisation, il importe de s'employer A identifier le sesame qui a permis A ces regions de parvenir a ce
resultat, sans perdre de vue que la promotion de la scolarisation demeure un tout comprenant la
communication strategique, les infrastructures, les equipements, les formateurs, les intrants p6dagogiques et
l'attrait de la scolarisation , cette demiere variable renvoyant essentiellement A la pertinence des
programmes. Pour ameliorer la qualite de 1'enseignement, le programme d6cennal devra compter la reforme
des curricula et de la formation des enseignants et l'accessibilit6 des intrants pelagogiques au nombre de
ses chantiers prioritaires.
I. DU RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES INSTITUTIONNELLES DE PLANIFICATION ET DE
GESTION
1.    Objectifs et modalit6s de mise en oeuvre
Etant donne la modicite des ressources d'education, il s'est agi ici d'assurer au MEB I'aide devant lui
permettre d'en assurer la gestion selon le meilleur rapport cout/efficacite; d'une part en renforcant les
capacites des structures de la portion centrale et, d'autre part, en amelioration les capacites de
planification et de gestion des structures deconcentrees. On ne peut envisager un developpement
quantitatif et qualitatif durable de l'education sans une veritable synergie entre ces deux espaces
d'initiative et d'action. L'aide a essentiellement concemr l'amelioration de la gestion et la planification
de l'enseignement, avec pour objectif axial le renforcement des capacites de la Direction des Etudes et de
la Prograrnmation (DEP) a planifier, suivre et animer le developpement de l'enseignement. Pour ce faire,
la structure a beneficie de l'appui n6cessaire en matiere de mise en place de capacit6s nationales, aussi
bien au niveau central que p6ripherique, pour (i) assurer la collecte de l'information et la publication
reguliere de l'annuaire statistique, (ii) assurer la tenue A jour de la carte scolaire et (iii) catalyser
I'emergence d'une authentique valeur ajout6e et d'une synergie devant assurer la gestion la plus
efficiente possible du developpement du systeme educatif, des personnels, des ressources materielles et
financieres et de 1'ensemble du patrimoine d'education. La DEP est invit6e a developper A cette fin des
initiatives d'orientation, de formation et d'information a l'adresse et au benefice, de ses personnels , des
autres directions centrales et des structures decentralisees dans les domaines de la coilecte et de l'analyse
des donnees, de la mautrise des statistiques de base, comme de l'analyse des politiques sectorielles.
L' enseignement prive est partie prenante A ce programme. Une etude sur ce sous-secteur et
- 33 -



1'enseignement communautaire a e realisee et des perspectives de developpement assorties de plans
d'action ont ete proposees. Une autre 6tude a &6 realis&e pour la definition d'une strategie de
developpement de 1'enseignement superieur.
Pour soutenir ce processus, un programme d'informatisation pilote par le Service Central Infonnatique a
et lance qui a considerablement am6liore la gestion des bourses, des personnels, des e1lves et etudiants.
Son extension est envisagee pour comprendre la gestion des donnees et du patrimoine d'education.
Pour leur permettre de s'engager dans cette dynamique avec un maximum d'atouts, differents services
du MEB ont beneficie d'un appui en infrastructures et mobilier, materiel roulant, materiel informatique,
materiel de reprographie et en carburant. Ainsi:
-     47 vehicules neufs ont e livres A un nombre egal d'inspections;
-     2 vehicules de seconde main (patrimoine PRODEP) ont ete livres A deux (2) autres
inspections;
-     5 vehicules neufs ont et6 mis a la disposition de la DEP, de la DEPRI, de la DEBI,
de la DEP et de la DAF;
-     2 ordinateurs ont ete mis a la disposition de la DEP et de la DEPRI;
-      10 nouvelles inspections ont ete construites et eguipees.
Plusieurs formations ont et assurees:
-     statistique (agents de la DEP et partenaires des structures decentralisees);
-     carte scolaire (agents de la DEP et partenaires des structures decentralisees);
-     informatique (SCI, Directeurs centraux, agents des services informatiques des DRE).
Tableau 2
Etat des ressources allou6es A l'execution de la sous-composante Renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles de planification et de gestion
Composante                      S/composantes                          Ressources
consomrnees
Renforcement des capacites
Institutionnelles de planification
et de gestion du MEB
Arn6lioration de l'efficacit6 de la planification et de
la gestion d6centranise .1.262.649.597
Elaboration d'une strategie de d6veloppement de
l'enseignement sup6rieur ..............................   249.679.376
Gestiondu PROSEF ..............................   1015124368
Renforcement des capacites de gestion et evaluation des
programmes .....................................1475300966
Etude sur 1'enseignement comnmunautaire et
I'enseignement prive ...........................  59.672.000
- 34 -



Total ..                                                   4.062.426.307 FCFA
2. Resultats
L'execution de cette composante a particulierement pernis de developper les capacites du MEB dans quatre
(4) domaines essentiels de la gestion de l'&ducation: (i) le suivi regulier des indicateurs d'offre et de
perfornance ; (ii) le developpement d'une capacite reelle d'elaboration et d'execution d'activites de carte
scolaire ; (iii) la formation d'agents de la portion centrale et des structures deconcentrees et (iv) la maitrise
de l'outil informatique cormne instrument d'amelioration de la gestion des persomnels, des elves, des
bourses et du patrimoine d'education. Le premier e1lment a pernis des la deuxieme annee du projet la
publication reguliere de I'annuaire des statistiques scolaires qui avait cesse de paraitre au cours des annees
80. Le deuxieme element a permis le developpement d'une carte scolaire prospective dans la region de
Dosso, activite qui permet desormais a la Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation et a ses
demembrements d'envisager avec serenite la generalisation de cette approche irremplacable de planification
aux autres regions du pays. Le troisieme element a permis de doter le MEB de ressources humaines
operationnelles maitrisant des aspects varies de la gestion de l'education. Enfin, le quatrieme element
repr6sente un acquis en matiere de maitrise des effectifs autant que de gestion des ressources d'education.
Renforces et demultiplies, I'ensemble de ces acquis, qui assurent deja des gains substantiels d'efficacite
devraient pouvoir permettre au MEB de disposer des personnels necessaires i l'execution du programme
decennal.
3. Recommandations
*      identifier avec la plus extreme minutie les fonctions qui devront conforter et developper les acquis
actuels et proceder a breve echeance a la mise en formation des competences additionnelles qui permettront
au MEB de faire face aux echeances a venir, et tout particulierement a la mise en ceuvre du programme
decennal;
*      proceder aux r6formes de structures qui devront permettre au MEB de se doter du potentiel
institutionnel qui lui sera necessaire pour entreprendre avec un maximum de chances de reussite la
refondation du systeme educatif compte tenu des objectifs assignes au programme decennal d'un double
point de vue qualitatif et quantitatif;
*      questionner, avec une attention soutenue, les etudes r6alis6es dans le cadre du PROSEF en vue de
la valorisation du potentiel de novation et d'innovation dont recele bon nombre d'entre elles;
*      marquer tres nettement l'importance accordee a l'amelioration de l'efficacite inteme du systeme
educatif par la creation d'un observatoire de la qualite de l'enseignement a envisager sous la forme d'une
structure issue d'une fusion de l'ENPM et de la Cellule Evaluation collaborant avec des antennes
implantees au sein des ENI pour composer un cadre de partenariat planifiant et executant des programmes
de recherche, de formation, d'information et de remediation;
*      doter les services du MEB (portion centrale et d6membrements ) de moyens de travail en mesure de
conduire a l'optimisation de leur rendement ainsi que des personnels qui les animent.
- 35 -












IIMIkINLU
Report No.:         24311
Type:     ICR



