Page  1
                                                        TF NUMBER 20816
                            AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
                        Belgian Grant Agreement
                 (Basic Education Sector Project/Hybrid)
                                between
                         THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
           as Administrator of development aid funds provided by
            the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and
            Development Cooperation of the Kingdom of Belgium
                           Dated July 5, 1996
                                                         TF NUMBER 20816
                             AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
                         BELGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the
Grantee) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ( the Association)
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of the Belgian Grant (as
hereinafter defined) provided by the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Trade and Development Cooperation of the Kingdom of Belgium ("Belgium").
     WHEREAS (A) the Grantee has requested the assistance of the
Association and Belgium in the financing of its Basic Education Sector
Project/Hybrid as fully described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement dated July 11, 1994, between the Grantee and the
Association (the Development Credit Agreement), (the "Project");
     (B)  Belgium has agreed to make available a grant (the "Belgian
Grant") through the Administrator to the Grantee to assist in the
financing part of the Project, as described in Part A.(a) of Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
     (C)  by a letter agreement, dated October 13, 1995, (the Agreement)
between Belgium and the Association, the Association has agreed to
administer the Belgian Grant in accordance with the provisions of said
Agreement;
     (D)  the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended
to the Grantee under this agreement (the "Belgian Grant Agreement") shall
be considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by
Belgium to the Grantee; and
     (E)  the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing to extend the Belgian Grant to the Grantee upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) with the modifications set
forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the International Development Association, acting as Administrator
of the Belgian Grant, except in the phrase "member of the Association"
in Section 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e) thereof;
     (b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement", and "Credit", whenever
used in the General Conditions, mean "Belgian Grant Agreement", and
"Belgian Grant" respectively;
     (c)  the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the trust account opened by the Administrator in its
books in the name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Belgian Grant
is credited (the "Trust Account");
     (d)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01,
8.01 (a), the second sentence of Section 5.01 and Article XII are deleted;
     (e)  in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the
International Development Association, acting in its own capacity;
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
          later date, as may be agreed for this purpose between the
          Grantee and the Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and
          furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in
          such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request,
          on the execution of the Project, the performance by the
          Grantee and the Administrator of their respective obligations
          under the Belgian Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of
          the purposes of the Belgian Grant.";
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions,
in the Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  the term "CFAF" means the currency of the Grantee;
     (b)  the term "Belgian Franc" means the currency of Belgium; and
     (c)  the term "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE II
                              The Grant
     Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the
Grantee, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million Belgian Francs (BF 100,000,000) or such other amount as shall
have been made available by Belgium to the Administrator for this
purpose, pursuant to the Agreement.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Belgian Grant may be withdrawn
from the Trust Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
Page  3
agreement between the Grantee and the Administrator for expenditures
made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the Project.
     (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Grantee on goods and services or in the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
     (c)  The Grantee shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFA Francs a special account (the "Special Account") in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Consultants and experts acceptable to the
Administrator shall be employed by the Grantee on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Administrator for the provision of services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Belgian Grant. Such consultants and
experts shall be selected in accordance with the same procedures as
those described in Schedule 3, Section II to the Development Credit
Agreement. No substitution of such consultants and experts or modifi-
cation of the terms and conditions of their employment shall be made,
except with the prior consent of the Administrator.
     (b)  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods and
works required for the project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Belgian Grant shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the same procedures mentioned in the preceding para-
graph; it being understood that the references in said Schedule to the
Association and the Credit Account shall be deemed to be references to
the Administrator of the Belgian Grant and the Belgian Grant Account
respectively.
     (c)  If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Belgian
Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under
this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the
Belgian Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Belgian Grant.
     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall
promptly notify the Grantee of such later date.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Grantee declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project and, to this end, shall carry out Part A.(a)
of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, public works and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for this part of the Project.
     (b)  The Administrator may at any time suspend the right of the
Grantee to receive funds from the Belgium Grant account if the Asso-
ciation shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of the
Grantee to make withdrawals under the Development Credit Agreement,
or if the Grantee shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Agreement.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall maintain, or cause to be
Page  4
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the expendi-
tures financed out of the proceeds of the Belgian Grant.
     (b)  The Grantee shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, audited for each fiscal year, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Administrator;
         (ii)  furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the report, or a certified copy of the
               report, of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Trust Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Grantee shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Administrator
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Trust Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Administrator's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are including in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                 Effective Date; Termination; Representative
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date
first above written or the date of the Agreement, whichever is the later,
and shall continue in effect until the Belgian Grant has been fully
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obli-
gations under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Grantee and
the Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date of which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03. The representative designated in Section 7.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Grantee
for the purposes of section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.04. The addresses specified in section 7.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the'
purpose of section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
     Section 5.05. In the event that Belgium or the Association decide to
terminate the functions of the Association as Administrator pursuant to
the Agreement, the Administrator shall notify the Grantee promptly of the
date on which Belgium shall assume the rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                     Transfer of Rights and  Obligations
     Section 6.01. In accordance with the provisions of the Agreement,
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may
be transferred to Belgium. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon
notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, Belgium shall,
ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if
Belgium had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a
party under this Agreement.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                    By /s/ Amadou Seidou
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    as Administrator of the Belgian Grant
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the             % of
                              Grant Allocated         Expenditures
     Category                (Expressed in BF)       to be financed
(1)  Civil works                82,800,000           100%
(2)  Equipment
     and Furniture              17,200,000           100%
                               ___________
                               100,000,000
                               ===========
                                SCHEDULE 2
Page  6
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Category" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
FCFA 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Trust Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to the
Administrator that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Grantee for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Grantee,
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts out of the
proceeds of the Grant as the Grantee shall have requested.
     (b)  The Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall deposit into the Special Account such amounts out of
the proceeds of the Grant as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit shall
be made by the Administrator in the respective equivalent amount, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Special Account for
which the Grantee requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to
or at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was
made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the
Administrator when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Administrator shall have determined that all further
               withdrawals of the Grant proceeds should be made directly
               to the Grantee; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawals of the Grant proceeds remaining unwith-
drawn shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by
notice to the Grantee. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or
in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph
Page  7
4 of this Schedule, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the
Administrator, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Grantee has made such deposit or refund.
7.   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Grantee shall, promptly
upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such
outstanding amount which will be added to the unwithdrawn amount of the
Grant.
