Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Basic Education Sector Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
Dated October 26, 1994
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
a Grant provided by the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway 
(Norway).
WHEREAS: (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and Norway in the financing of a program of 
actions described in the Letter of Development Policy regarding the implementation of 
the Borrower's Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan, dated May 2, 1994, referred to 
in Recital A of the Development Credit Agreement, for the Basic Education Sector 
Project, as negotiated on May 2, 1994 between the Recipient and the Association (Cr. 
2618) (the Development Credit Agreement);
(B)
by a letter dated September 19, 1994, the Association and Norway have 
accepted that the Association will administer the Norwegian Grant in accordance with 
the provisions of the Cofinancing and Technical Assistance Framework Agreement entered 
into between Norway and the Association on March 9, 1994 (the Administration 
Agreement);
(C)
the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under this Agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement) shall be considered as 
part of the bilateral development aid extended by Norway to the Recipient; and
(D)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Norwegian Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the "General Conditions"), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement, subject however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Norwegian 
Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Norwegian Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the Recipient to 
which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited;
(e)
Section 9.06, paragraph 6, shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project 
and the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of 
their respective obligations under the Norwegian Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Norwegian Grant.";
(f)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development Association acting in 
its own capacity; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.03 and Article XII of the General Conditions are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Administration 
Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. However, wherever used in this 
Agreement, the term "Imports" shall mean goods imported during the execution of the 
Program and to be financed from the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant.
Section 1.03. Wherever used in this Agreement, the terms, "Norwegian Kroner" and 
"NOK" mean the currency of Norway.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of thirty-five 
million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 35,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Norwegian Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Administrator for the financing of expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of: (i) 
Imports; and (ii) goods, required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and to be financed from the proceeds of the Norwegian 
Grant.
Page  3
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments of taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient on goods and services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof.
(c)
Withdrawals from the Norwegian Grant Account shall be made in the 
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Norwegian Grant have been paid or are payable, or at the option of the 
Administrator, in Norwegian Kroner.
(d)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, it being understood that the references in said Schedule to "Credit", 
"Credit Account", "Association", "Authorized Allocation" and "Eligible Categories" 
shall be deemed to be references to the Norwegian Grant, the Norwegian Grant Account, 
the Administrator of the Norwegian Grant, an amount equivalent to CFAF 97,000,000, and 
Category (2) respectively.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Norwegian Grant as well as contracts for Imports shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, it being understood 
that the references in said Schedule to the "Association" and the "Credit Account" 
shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator of the Norwegian Grant and the 
Norwegian Grant Account, respectively.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any items is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under 
this Agreement, by notice to the Recipient, cancel such amount of the Norwegian Grant 
as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such 
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Article 
III, Sections 3.01 and 3.02 as well as Article IV, of the Development Credit Agreement 
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they 
were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references to the 
"Association" in Article III, Sections 3.01 and 3.02, and in Article IV shall be 
deemed to be references to the Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway under 
this Agreement and all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Norwegian Grant.
(b)
The Administrator may at any time suspend the right of the Recipient to 
receive funds from the Norwegian Grant Account if the Association shall have suspended 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under the 
Development Credit Agreement, or if the Recipient shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Norwegian Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under 
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Page  4
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 7.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to Norway. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice be substitutes in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement as if Norway had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as 
a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Adamou Seydou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of development
  aid funds provided by the
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF
  THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the Allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in NOK)
to be Financed
(1)
Imports
21,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
Page  5
(2)
Textbooks
14,000,000
100%
TOTAL
35,000,000
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) 
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of the Development Credit Agreement, except that withdrawals in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of NOK 4,200,000 may be made in respect 
of Category (1) of paragraph 1 above, on account of payments made for expenditures 
during the four months preceding that date;
(b)
withdrawals from Category (1) above shall be subject to the restriction 
specified in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
Schedule 1, paragraph 6 of the Development Credit Agreement applies 
mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
