CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated S         (        1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2618 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         , 1994, between THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the BorrowerY and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
May 2, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to support the implementation of
the Borrower's Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution; and
WHEREAS: (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $10,200,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
Norway (Norway) a grant (the Norwegian Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $4,800,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Norwegian
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Norway; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:


﻿-2-
(a)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Project and the Program referred to in
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Central Bank" means the Bangue Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de 1'Ouest;
(b)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)   "Implementation  Manual"  means   the  MENES/R  -   as
hereinafter defined - manual setting out the detailed procedures
applying to classroom construction and rehabilitation as approved by
the Borrower's Minister responsible for education on May 2, 1994;
(d)   "Imports" means goods imported during the execution of
the Program and to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Category (10) of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(e)   "MENES/R" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
education;
(f)   "SITC"  means   the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
(g)   "UNICEF" means United Nations Children's Fund;


﻿- 3 -
(h)   "UNIPAC" United Nations International Procurement Agency
Copenhagen; and
(i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-nine million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost: (i) of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) of Imports.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the


﻿Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2004 and ending May 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2014
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the


﻿-5-
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and tle Program
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MENESIR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and education practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and of to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit as well as the procurement of Imports shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in respect of
the Project, and cause the Central Bank to maintain in respect of
Imports, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures of, respectively, the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and of the Central Bank for Imports.
(b)   The Borrower shall, without prejudice to the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section 4.01:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than 6
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such   other
information concerning said. records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records;
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts for the
second half of each fiscal year are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contais a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during the second half of such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(v)    ensure that such records and accounts for the
first half of each fiscal year are audited and
an  audit  report  thereof   submitted  to  the
Association,   all  in   accordance  with   the
standards set out in this Section 4.01, with the
exception that the deadline for the submission
of such audit report shall be 3 months after the
end of the period to which the audit pertains.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b)   the Implementation Manual shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the implementation of the Project; and
(c)   the KfW Agreement or the Norwegian Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1995 or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(b)   the Borrower has made budgetary allowance for and has
recruited at least 520 additional primary school teachers for the
1994/1995 school year;


﻿-9-
(c)   the Borrower has admitted at least 720 teacher trainees
(respecting a 85% - 15% Instituteur-A.lioint to Instituteur ratio) to
the TTCs for the 1994/1995 school year;
(d)   the Borrower has introduced the system of double-shift
classes in at least 440 primary school classes for the 1994/1995
school year;
(e)   the Borrower has redeployed at least 32 TTC teachers to
lyc6es;
(f)   the Borrower has, by appropriate legal instrument,
transformed the Faculty of Pedagogy at the University of Niamey into
a secondary teacher training college (the Ecole Normale Sup6rieure),
with a program acceptable to the Association;
(g)   the Borrower's budgets for higher education scholarships
and secondary student subsidies for 1994, do not exceed CFAF 4.8
billion and CFAF 1.6 billion respectively;
(h)   the Borrower has appointed three regional coordinators
for the classroom construction program;
(i)   the Borrower has signed a contract with UNICEF for the
implementation of the micro-nutrients program under Part A of the
Project that is acceptable to the Association and includes, inter
alia, a detailed implementation plan and a monitoring and evaluation
system;
(j)   the   Borrower  has   transferred   MENES/R's   School
Construction Bureau from MENES/R' s Directorate of Education Planning
to MENES/R's Directorate of Education Project Coordination; P-nd
(k)   the Borrower has signed a multi-year contract with an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association for the
performance of audits of the Project and Imports accounts.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
et du Plan
B.P. 389
Niamey
Niger
Telex:
5463
5337
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By/S              AdV (12 V1 a
Authorized Represehtative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By k40- " ~krr%s- B 4O-Xn& CJ I
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                4,540,000      100%
(2)   Furniture,                 4,250,000      100%
Equipment and
Vehicles
(3)   Micro-nutrients              220,000      100%
(4)   Pedagogic                  3,400,000      100%
Materials and
Textbooks
(5)   Training                   1,200,000      100%
(6)   Consultants'               1,130,000      100%
Services
(7)   Girls Fund                   220,000      100%
(8)   Education Improve-           140,000      100%
ment Programs


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(9)   Incremental               1,280,000       100%
Recurrent Costs
(10) Goods Imported            12,170,000       100% of foreign
During the                                expenditures
Execution of the
Program
(11) Unallocated                  750,000
TOTAL                    29,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "Education   Improvement  Programs"  means
expenditures for training, consultants' services, a vehicle,
furniture and equipment, made for the evaluation of education
improvement programs under Part B of the Project;
(b)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "Girls Fund" means expenditures for goods made
for the implementation of the action program referred to in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d)   the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means incremental
Project related operating costs for, inter alia, vehicle operation
and maintenance and equipment maintenance and repairs, office
supplies and salaries.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not


﻿- 14 -
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,440,000, may be made in respect of
Category (10) of paragraph 1 above, on account of payments made for
expenditures during the four months preceding that date;
(b)   for expenditures under Category (8) of paragraph 1
above, unless the Borrower has signed a contract for short-term
specialist services to support the development of a student
assessment system with an institution and acceptable to the
Association;
(c)   under Category (10) of paragraph I above for:
(i)    expenditures for goods included in the following
SITC groups or subgroups, or any successor
groups or subgroups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Groqp           SubgrouD       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --          Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿- 15 -
Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
718             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(ii)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $5,000 equivalent;
(iii)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Association
shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(iv)    expenditures for goods intended for a military
or   paramilitary   purpose   or   for   luxury
consumption.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of Category (10) of paragraph I
above after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account under said Category (10) and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
5,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association;
and (c) that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.


﻿- 16 -
5.    If, after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and the actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
remaining amount of the Credit allocated to Category (10) of
paragraph 1 above, or any part thereof.
6.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for (i)
expenditures under contracts for Imports not exceeding $500,000
equivalent, and (ii) expenditures under contracts for other goods,
works and training not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the access to and
quality of primary education and to strengthen the sector's
management and planning capacity as well as to promote the more
cost-effective use of public education resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Access to and Quality of Primary Education
The improvement of access to and quality of primary education
through:
(a)   construction and rehabilitation of about 1770 and 1500
primary school classrooms respectively;
(b)   development  and  implementation   of  a  program   to
accelerate girls' education;
(c)   improving the quality of primary school teacher training
programs;
(d)   provision of books; and
(e)   support to the implementation of a micro-nutrients
program.
Part B:     Strengthening Sector Management and Planning Capacity
The strengthening of sector management and planning capacity
through:
(a)   strengthening of the capacity of MENES/R to manage
resources and implement and evaluate education improvement programs;
(b)   improving  the  efficiency  of  decentralized   sector
planning and management; and


﻿- 18 -
(c)   preparing a development strategy for higher education.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Imports (Category (10) of paragraDh 1
to Schedule 1 to this Agreement)
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least onenewspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of  wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."


﻿- 20 -
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   For fixed-price contracts, the     invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign, currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
(f)   Goods procured under this paragraph 1 shall be subject
to pre-shipment inspection by a third party inspection firm.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or less shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of boods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct


﻿- 21 -
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2
above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
5.    The provisions of paragraph 4 above shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II. Procurement of Goods and Works for Parts A and B of
the Project
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the    invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.


﻿- 22 -
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
(c)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Niger may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for works may be procured (i) under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidders, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,600,000, and (ii) on the basis of
direct contracting with communities, parents' associations and non-
governmental organizations in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,200,000.
2.    Contracts for equipment, office supplies and school furniture
that cannot be grouped into packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,100,000.
3.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or less per contract and that cannot be grouped into
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the


﻿- 23 -
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000.
4.    Micro-nutrients may be procured from UNIPAC.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposeL of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section III. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and B
of the Project the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory


﻿- 24 -
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such    contracts, (b) single-source selection   of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably  determined  by  the Association,   (d) amendments  to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Implementation, Monitoring and Review
1.    MENES/R   shall  carry   overall  responsibility   for   the
implementation and monitoring of the Project.
2.    MENESIR shall:
(i)   submit to the Association twice yearly in April and
October a progress report on the implementation of the
Project in a format approved by the Association;
(ii) organize and carry out not later than November 30 of
each calendar year a joint review meeting for the
Borrower and the Association. The semiannual progress
reports shall provide the basic inputs for these
meetings. In addition, at each annual review meeting,
the Borrower shall present a work program and budget for
the implementation of the Project during the coming
academic year and to be examined in the context of the
Borrower's public expenditure review, to the Association
for approval, and review the implementation of the work
program and the budget of the preceding academic year.
(iii)   following each annual review meeting, promptly adopt the
work program and budget for the following academic year
as approved by the Association and take all necessary
action required for the implementation of said work
program and budget.
3.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a
midterm review of the Project in the third year following the
Effective Date, or at any other time as agreed between the Borrower
and the Association. At least sixty days prior to such review the
Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association all necessary
documentation for the evaluation of the Project. The terms of
reference of this review shall be acceptable to the Association and
shall include an assessment of inter alia: (i) progress made in
achieving key Project objectives; (ii) the need to adjust Project
design in the light of the implementation experience; (iii) the
performance of MENES/R and its various services; and (iv) the
performance of the technical assistance.


﻿- 26 -
In addition, as part of the review, the Borrower shall prepare
a program of action, satisfactory to the Association, to deal with
deficiencies in Project implementation identified during the review.
(b)   Promptly after the review mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall take, or shall cause to be taken, all
necessary action required for the implementation of the program of
action referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Part A of the Project
4.    The Borrower shall establish in MENES/R, not later than
October 31, 1994, an office for the promotion of girls schooling
with terms of reference and qualified staff in adequate numbers,
acceptable to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1994 (i)
complete a study on economic and demand factors causing gender bias
in education with terms of reference acceptable to the Association,
(ii) review the results and recommendations of that study with the
Association, and (iii) adopt an time-bound action program,
acceptable to the Association, to address gender bias in education.
Subsequently, the Borrower shall take, or shall cause to be taken,
all necessary action required for the implementation of said action
program.
6.    The Borrower shall not later than July 31, 1995 (i) complete
an audit of MENES/R's National Pedagogical Institute, and (ii) adopt
a time-bound action program, acceptable to the Association, for the
redeployment of redundant staff. Subsequently, the Borrower shall
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary action required for the
implementation of said action program.
Part B of the Project
7.    The Borrower shall not later than October 31, 1995 (i)
complete a study on demand for private education with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, (ii) review the results and
recommendations of that study with the Association, and (iii) adopt
an time-bound action program, acceptable to the Association, to
stimulate private education. Subsequently, the Borrower shall take,
or shall cause to be taken, all necessary action required for the
implementation of said action program.


﻿- 27 -
8.    The Borrower shall not later than July 31, 1995 (i) complete
a study on experimental classes using national languages with terms
of reference acceptable to the Association, (ii) review the results
and recommendations of that study with the Association, and (iii)
adopt an time-bound action program, acceptable to the Association,
to implement those recommendations. Subsequently, the Borrower shall
take, or shall cause to be taken, all necessary action required for
the implementation of said action program.
9.    The Borrower shall throughout the implementation of the
Project operate MENES/R's Directorate for Education Project
Coordination under terms of reference and with qualified staff in
adequate numbers, acceptable to the Association.
10.   The Borrower shall (i) not later than January 31, 1996
complete a higher education sector study with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association and launch a national debate among
critical stakeholders on the recommendations resulting from this
study, (ii) not later than October 31, 1996, adopt recommendations
resulting from said national debate, and (iii) not later than
December 31, 1996, initiate discussions with the Association on a
time-bound reform program to implement said recommendations.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to CFAF 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 29 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 30 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure -or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 6
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
of Schedule I to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, made
budgetary allowance for and has recruited at least 520 additional
primary school teachers for the 1995/1996 school year.
2.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, admitted at
least 720 additional teacher trainees (respecting a 85% - 15%
Instituteur-Adjoint to Instituteur ratio) to the TTCs for the
1995/1996 school year.
3.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, constructed
at least 120 new primary school class rooms during the 1994/1995
school year.
4.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, adopted the
1995 recurrent expenditures budget and the 1995-1997 rolling three-
year public investment program for education, acceptable to the
Association.
5.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, introduced
the system of double-shift classes in a total of at least 670
primary school classes for the 1995/1996 school year.
6.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, as of the
1995/1996 school year, not admitted any new teacher trainees to
secondary teacher programs other than those of the Ecole Normale
Supgrieure.
7.    The Borrower has, in accordance with the Program, terminated
the contracts of at least 76 secondary school teachers and
redeployed an additional 24 secondary school teachers to private
secondary schools in lieu of monetary subsidies to said schools.
8.    The Borrower's higher education scholarship and secondary
students subsidies spending in 1995 has not exceeded CFAF 4.6
billion and 1.6 billion respectively, in accordance with the
Program.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


