Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7823-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 5, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 30, 1988)
Currency Unit - Peso (F)
US$1.00 - P 21.4
P 1.00 - US$ 0.0467
ACRONYMS
ADB       -       Asian Development Bank
AJDF      -       ASEAN Japan Development Fund
APT       -       Asset Privatization Trust
BOI       -       Board of Investment
CBP       -       Central Bank of the Philippines
CALF      -       Comprehensive Agricultural Loan Fund
DBP       -       Development Bank of the Philippines
DOF       -       Department of Finance
DTI       -       Department of Trade and Industry
ERL       -       Economic Recovery Loan
FSAL      -       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSS       -       Financial Sector Study
FX        -       Foreign Exchange
GATT      -       General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP       -       Gross Domestic Product
GFIs      -       Government Financial Institutions
GNP       -       Gross National Product
GSIS      -       Government Service Insurance System
IACC      -       Inter Agency Coordinating Committee
IDP       -       Institutional Development Plan
IGLF      -       Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IMF       -       International Monetary Fund
OPG       -       Operating Policy Guidelines
PFI       -       Participating Financial Institutions
PNB       -       Philippine National Bank
QRs       -       Quantitative Import Restrictions
SEC       -       Securities and Exchange Commission
SME       -       Small and Medium Enterprises
SSS       -       Social Security System
TA        -       Technical Assistance
Fiscal Year
DBP: January 1 to December 31



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan  and  Project  Sumnmary .......................................... i
I. THE  INDUSTRIAL  SECTOR ............................................ 1
A.   The  Economic  Setting ................................1........l
B.   The  Policy  Framework ......................................... 2
C.   Structure  and  Performance .................................... 3
D.   Selected  Subsectoral  Issues .................................. 5
II.  THE  FINANCIAL  SECTOR ............................................ 6
A.   Introduction ................................................. 6
B.   Evolution  and  Structure ...................................... 7
C.   Major  Financial  Sector Policies .............................. 9
D.   Financial  Sector Reforms ..................................... 10
E.  Institutional Arrangements for Providing
Long-Term  Credit .......................................... 11
F.   Industrial  Credit ............................................ 13
G.   Bank  Strategy  in  the  Sector .................................. 15
III.THE  BORROWER AND  PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL  INSTITUTIONS ........... 16
A.   The  Development  Bank  of the  Philippines ...................... 16
Introduction ............................................. 16
Historical  Perspective:  1958-1986 ........................ 17
DBP's  Rehabilitation:   1986-1988 ......................... 17
DBP's  New  Role  and  Strategic  Orientation ................. 19
Organization  and Management .............................. 20
Personnel  Policy  and  Training ............................ 21
Accounting  and Management  Information  System ............. 21
Loan Activities  and Asset Management ..................... 22
Liability Management ..................................... 23
Projected  Financial  Position  and  Performance ............. 24
Audit ...........................                                                   .......................... 25
B.   The  Participating  Financial  Institutions ..................... 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Vinod Busjeet (Task Manager), Christian Duvigneau and Joachim Iska
(AS2IE), which visited the Philippines in February/March 1989,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ............................................... 26
A.   Project Objectives ........................................... 26
B.   Project Description .......................................... 26
C.   Loan Amount .................................................. 27
D.   Project  Implementation ....................................... 28
E.   Relending Mechanism,  Terms and Conditions .................... 29
F.   Disbursements ................................................ 34
G.   Procurement .................................................. 35
H.   Monitoring,  Reporting and Auditing ........................... 35
I.   Justification and Risks ...................................... 36
V. AGREEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION .................... 36
A.   Agreements and Understandings ................................ 36
B.   Conditions of Effectiveness .................................. 37
C.   Recommendation ............................................... 37
Annexes
1.01 Average Nominal Tariff Rates, 1982-88
1.02 Financial Performance of Manufacturing Corporations 1979-87
1.03 Subsectoral Issues
2.01 Total Assets of the Financial System, 1980-88
2.02 Outstanding Credit to Manufacturing, 1980-88
3.01 DBP - Financial Statements, 1984-88
3.02 DBP - Financial Projections 1988-94
3.03 DBP - Organization Chart
3.04 DBP - Policy Statement
3.05 Participating Financial Institutions
4.01 Supervision Plan
5.01 Documents in the Project File



- i -
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Guarantor:               Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:           Accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs)
and private sector medium and large enterprises.
Amount:                  US$65.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Repayable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         DBP would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
accredited PFIs in domestic currency at market rates.
Maturities would conform to the maturity of subloans
made by the PFIs to subborrowers, but would not exceed
13 years for equipment subloans and leasing. 7 years
for working capital subloans, and 10 years for the
financing of equity and quasi-equity investments. The
grace period would not exceed 3 years for equipment and
working capital subloans and 5 years for the financing
of equity investments. Lease financing would have no
grace period. The PFIs would on-lend the funds to their
subborrowers at prevailing market interest rates. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk in
exchange for a market-related fee payable by DBP.
Co-financier:            The Japan Grant Facility will provide grant funds of
US$3.5 million equivalent to finance industrial subsector
restructuring studies.



- ii -
Proiect Objectives:      The proposed project aims to: fill the gap in the supply
of term credit to medium and large industrial
enterprises; improve credit delivery for industry by
assisting DBP carry out its wholesale banking function
of  channeling   term  funds   to   retail   financial
institutions; broaden the financial services available
to enterprises; help promote development of the capital
market by introducing the financing of equity and quasi-
equity investments by PFIs; support and develop, within
DBP and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI),
capabilities to conduct analytical and policy-oriented
studies on industrial subsectors; and assist the
Government in identifying, in selected subsectors, the
appropriate policy and institutional framework which
could lead them to become internationally competitive
and efficient.
Project Description:    The project would have the following components: (a) a
line of credit for (i) equipment and working capital
financing; (ii) lease financing; (iii) financing of
equity and quasi-equity investments; and (b) studies,
training, and technical assistance related to subsectoral
industrial restructuring.
Benefits:                The project would  (a) provide timely assistance to
industrial development in the Philippines; (b) enable
DBP to develop the institutional capabilities to embark
on the wholesale banking role envisaged for it in the
Financial Sertor Adjustment Program supported by the Bank
and (c) through provision of technical assistance, help
the Government in charting reforms that may be necessary
for the efficient and competitive development of
enterprises in specific subsectors.
Risks:                   The major  risk  is  that  investment  demand may not
materialize as projected. Commitments could slow down
because of slower than expected economic growth or
reluctance by financial intermediaries to accept new
financial instruments that would be introduced under
the proposed project.   Leasing is a relatively new
industry in the Philippines. Moreover, the local market
for equity is small and owners of privately held
companies may remain reluctant to allow PFIs to hold
shares in their companies, even for a limited period.
Consequently, the loan size has been set in light of
conservative demand projections, and the amounts
allocated for lease contracts, equity and quasi-equity
instruments are relatively small.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)----
Credit Component                             45.0      65.0    110.0
Studies,Training and Technical Assistance  1.0          3.5       4.5
Total                 46.0       68.5    114.5
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
------(USS million)----
Subborrowers                            30.0        -        30.0
PFIs                                    15.0        -        15.0
DBP/DTI (Technical Assistance            1.0        -         1.0
Beneficiaries)
Japan Grant Facility                       -        3.5       3.5
IBRD                                       -       65.0      65.0
Total                46.0       68.5    114.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year          1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual               2.6    15.6    22.1    14.3    7.8        2.6
Cumulative           2.6    18.2    40.3    54.6   62.4    65.0
Rate of Return:                    Not Applicable



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting
1.1       Recent  Bank  economic  reportsl  indicate  that while  economic
growth in the Philippines was rapid during the 19709, distortions in the
pattern of incentives resulted in inefficient investments, slow employment
growth and low levels of domestic savings.  Heavily dependent on imports
and foreign capital, the economy did not adjust well to the severe exter-
nal shocks of the post-1979 period with its high oil prices and interest
rates, and declining export prices.   The economy experienced declining
growth rates, a deteriorating balance of payments, and the accumulation of
a large external debt. A political crisis in 1983, combined with a world-
wide debt crisis, led to a cessation of foreign credits, and forced the
Government to embark on a major stabilization effort.  The stabilization
measures were supported by International M4onetary Fund (IMF) Standby
Arrangements of December 1984 and October 1986.  Overall, the objectives
of the stabilization programs have been met or surpassed.   Inflation has
been brought under control, with the consumer price index registering an
increase of 8.8Z in 1988 and 3.8% in 1987, compared to 50X in 1984 and 23%
in 1985.  The current accottnt swung from a deficit of 4.82 of GNP in 1984
to a surplus equal to 3.OZ of GNP in 1986, and showed only slight deficits
in 1987 (1.3Z) and 1988 (1.0X). GDP growth was positive in 1986 after two
years of decline and showed an impressive acceleration to 4.7% in 1987 and
6.6% in 1988.
1.2       The  remarkable  recovery  of  the  Philippine  economy  has  been
largely led by the industrial sector which grew at 7.72 in 1987 and 8.9Z
in 1988. Contributing 33% of GDP and 42Z of total merchandise exports and
accounting for 152 of total employment in 1988, the industrial sector,
which is mostly private, has benefitted from the comprehensive structural
reforms introduced by the Government which aimed at increasing economic
efficiency by stimulating private sector initiative and activity.  Among
the important reforms implemented since February 1986 are a significant
devaluation of the Peso, a major tax reform, the removal or reduction of a
host of import controls and import duties, a re-orientation of the public
investment program to focus on essential infrastructure improvements, the
restructuring of the two largest government financial institutions and the
commencement  of  a privatization  program.    Since,  despite  the  recent
economic growth, GDP in 1988 was barely ahead of the pre-recession (1983)
level and gross value added in manufacturing of P25.2 billion (expressed
1/  Philippines:  An ABenda for Adjustment and Growth (Report No.
5268-PH, November 30, 1984); Philippines: A Framework for
Economic Recovery (Report No. 6530-PH, November 5, 1986);
Philippines: Toward Sustaining the Economic Recovery (Report
No. 7438-PH, January 30, 1989).



- 2 -
in 1972 prices) only slightly surpassed the pre-recession peak, there is
substantial  scope  for expansion of  the industrial  sector.   With  the
present policy framework being characterized by a substantial reduction of
past distortions, the industrial sector is poised for growth. Term credit
to finance the investment requirements of industry will consequently be
required.
B. The Policy Framework
1.3       Industrial policy in the Philippines from 1950 to 1980 can be
divided into three distinct periods: a first phase of import substituting
industrialization in the 1950s under rising protective barriers; a major
shift towards a more open and liberal trade regime in the early 1960s
which, however, was not sustained; and a reversal to more interventionist
policies beginning in the late 1960s with increasing recourse to protec-
tive barriers, large public-sector-led or-supported investments and
generous incentives administered by the Board of Investment (BOI).   The
result was an incentive environment that led to suboptimal investments and
an inefficient industry that was largely inward oriented and internation-
ally uncompetitive.
1.4       In the eighties, momentum for reform was prov'ded by the onset
of the second oil price shock, the world economic recession, the surge in
interest rates and the weakening in primary commodity prices. The Govern-
ment accordingly initiated a broad range of structural reforms with the
support of two Bank-financed Structural Adjustment Loans (Loan Nos. 1903-
PH, 1980; 2266-PH, 1983). Among the policy initiatives taken were: (a) a
major trade liberalization program arnd (b) reform of BOI incentives. The
trade reforms, which aimed at correcting in a comprehensive manner the
adverse incentive effects of the trade regime by reducing the level and
variability of protection, included actions in all key areas affecting the
protection regime:   tariff reform, phasing out of import restrictions,
removal of the protective elements of the indirect tax system, and cur-
tailment of exemptions to import-substituting  industries.   As for BOI
incentives, they were rationalized in the Omnibus Investment Code which
corrected two major weaknesses of past incentives: (a) the favoring of
import substituting industries over exports and (b) the favoring of
capital-intensive over labor-intensive technologies.
1.5       A cornerstone of the trade policy reform was the significant
narrowing of the band of import tariffs:   from a OX - lOOZ band before
1980 to I0Z-502 by 1985. This led to a major reduction in average nominal
and effective protection rates and their variability.  This reduction was
initially accompanied by a relaxation of import restrictions, but as a
response to severe balance of payment pressures in 1983 and 1984, the
number of regulated import items increased again between 1983 and 1985.
Since the end of 1985, however, 1,292 import restrictions have been
liberalized including those on iron and steel, yarn and thread, tires,
plastics and other important industrial inputs, and some consumer goods,
including garments and textiles.  While average nominal tariff protection
has not changed in recent years (Annex 1.01), liberalization of import
restrictions has been the focus of trade reform.



- 3 -
1.6       The trade liberalization has had a major impact on the structure
of industrial protection, by significantly reducing the pro-import-
substitution bias.   In the absence of full trade  liberalization even
today, an effective system of export incentives and promotional measures
in accordance with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is
also necessary to counteract the anti-export bias of the past trade
regime. Given the nascent stage of export development, it is important
that small and new exporters, as well as indirect exporters, are covered
by the export promotion system:   to be able to obtain imported inputs
efficiently and at world market prices, and to have access to working
capital  financing.   Consequently,  in addition  to trade  liberalization
measures, the Government has been pursuing an export promotion policy,
using duty drawback exemption schemes to ensure free access to inter-
mediate imported inputs for exporters, and supporting exporters through an
export finance facility.
1.7       As a result of cumulative policy adjustments since 1980,  the
Philippine economy is now more open and transparent in its regulatory and
incentive structure than at any time since 1950.   The average nominal
tariff in the Philippines is now comparable to that of other countries
that have also liberalized in recent years and effective protection may be
even lower in some areas.
1.8       The Government remains committed to a policy of trade liberali-
zation. A schedule for liberalization of products that remain under trade
control has been provided by the Government as part of a program assoc-
iated with an Extended Fund Facility approved by the IMF in May 1989.
Some 104 items are scheduled to be liberalized in 1989 and 455 items will
be reviewed for liberalization in the future.  This will leave 114 items
under continued import control, mostly for health and security reasons.
1.9       While it is important to maintain the momentum of trade reform,
the industrial sector will need financial support to take advantage of the
trade liberalization and incentive reforms already undertaken.  Moreover,
future trade reforms should be carried out in the context of subsector
specific strategies that consider the entire impact of tariff, price and
other government policies on each industry's costs of production and the
level of effective protection.   Many firms in protected industries will
need time to restructure so as to be competitive at world prices.  These
subsectoral issues, which will be addressed through the technical assis-
tance (TA) component of the proposed Industrial Investment Credit Project,
are discussed in more detail in paras. 1.14 to 1.18 and in Annex 1.03.
C. Structure and Performance
1.10      As a result of the policies pursued at the time, the structure
of the industrial base created in the 1970s was brittle and largely
uncompetitive.   Non-traditional manufacturing export growth was narrowly
concentrated in product mix (semi-conductors and garments) and destination
(the United States).   The remainder of industry, accounting for the bulk
of value added, was highly dependent on domestic demand which, however,



-4-
was artificially inflated by heavy foreign borrowings and infusions of
subsidized  credit  and  government  transfers.    The  momentum  given  to
industrial growth by these measures began to taper off in the late 1970s,
when the scope for expancion of import substitution under heavy protection
was exhausted, and technological weaknesses and other inefficiencies
fostered by the lack of competition began to take their toll.  Moreover,
t-he financing requirements of high domestic demand could not be sustained
indefinitely.
1.11      Rapid changes in the international environment since 1980, high
interest rates and a foreign exchange crisis led to forced austerity
measures which accelerated industry's downward trend.  The situation was
exacerbated by political instability. The decrease in investments and the
suboptimal allocations, as well as high power costs and frequent labor
disputes  contributed  to  low productivity.    Total  factor productivity
growth in the manufacturing sector, an indicator of efficiency perfor-
mance, was negative whereas the Philippines' major competitors displayed a
positive growth in that period.  Poor performance, high domestic interest
rates and devaluation losses for firms with foreign currency denominated
loans left many firms in financial distress (Annex 1.02). with low profit-
ability and high indebtedness.   Many firms ceased operation and declared
bankruptcy.   Firms in operation limped along at 50-602 capacity utiliza-
tion.  After steady growth rates of gross value added in industry in the
1970s, the sector experienced a slowdown in 1980-83 followed by a sharp
decline after two years of severe recession in 1984-85, during which
industrial output fell by almost 202 in real terms.
1.12      The industrial sector began to recover at the end of 1986.  The
recovery was led by rapid expansion of private construction (17.2Z in 1987
and 12.82 in 1988), fueled by increased availability of housing loans.
Spurred by rising private consumption, manufacturing output increased by
an impressive 7.12 in 1987 and 8.7Z in 1988. The financial performance of
manufacturing corporations improved, both in terms of profitability and
adequate capitalization (Annex 1.02).  The improved performance of indu-
stry can be attributed to the increasingly stable political environment,
growing domestic demand and the policy reforms which, by providing enterp-
rises with access to competitively priced imported inputs, enhanced the
competitIveness of Philippine exports.
1.13      The recent growth has been well diversified.  Rapid recovery of
the manufacturing sector has been fueled by growth in virtually all
manufacturing subsectors, with only a few subsectors remaining in conti-
nued depression or recovering slowly; among these are pulp and paper, wood
processing, chemicals and some metal working/engineering industries.  The
most dramatic growth has been registered by three consumer goods sub-
sectors: food, beverage industries and textiles. This primarily reflects
strong consumer demand in the domestic market, but also increased exports
of processed foods and textiles as a result of the improved incentive
framework.



- 5 -
D. Selected Subsectoral Issues
1.14      In the context of the more open economy that the Government is
trying to foster, there is need for both financial and physical restruc-
turing that would enable firms to improve efficiency and international
competitiveness The more liberal policy environment has affected various
subsectors differently, with some able to fashion the appropriate competi-
tive response but others not equipped to do so. Given the diverse struc-
ture of industry, a restructuring strategy needs to address specific
constraints,  problems and requirements of individual  subsectors.   This
subsector approach to restructuring is warranted since at the policy
level, certain trade and regulatory policies are often subsector-specific
and, at the enterprise level, the technology, marketing and organization
needed to compete effectively differ according to the subsector.
1.15      The articulation and implementation  of a sound restructuring
strategy has been hampered by insufficient know-how and Government reluc-
tance to introduce, at this stage, further policy ref3rms in some subsec-
tors, out of fear that they would collapse if these reforms were embarked
upon hastily and without proper sequencing.   In addition to inter-island
shipping, a service subsector with substantial linkages to industry, these
subsectors are the capital-intensive processing industries with large,
sunk investments and include cement, pulp and paper, chemicals, and
certain metal working/engineering industries. These as well as some other
subsectors (textiles, certain agro-food processing industries) also face
the reluctance of banks to extend credit given the subsectors' poor
performance in past years and the banks' inability to assess their growth
potential.   Thus,  there is need to assist the Government,  the banking
sector and industrialists to analyze these subsectors and identify public
policy measures as well as business strategies that would together form
part of a coherent subsectoral strategy.
1.16      Two  of  the majorl/  ar,d promising  industrial  subsectors  ---
cement, pulp and paper -- and the inter-island shipping subsector are
described in Annex 1.03.   All three are hampered by physical, financial
and policy constraints.   Many of the existing plants in the cement and
pulp and paper subsectors lack economies of scale and are overmanned and
technologically obsolete. The last decade has seen no fundamental rehabi-
litation of existing capacity or major additional investments.   As for
inter-island shipping, the fleets have deteriorated substantially, with
the average age of the more than 4,000 inter-island vessels exceeding 20
years.  Firms in these subsectors also face financial distress resulting
from declining profitability in the pre-1986 years and foreign exchange
losses incurred on their foreign currency loans following the Peso devalu-
ations in the mid-eighties.
2/  in 1987, the largest enterprises in the cement (10 firms) and
pulp and paper (19 firms) subsectors accounted for 9.3Z of
total assets and 4.7Z of total sales of the top 1,000 corpor-
ations in the Philippines.



-6-
1.17      The physical  and  financial problems  of these  subsectors  are
compounded by policies that inhibit competitive efficiency.   Inter-island
shipping is regulated by as many as fifteen different agencies, with the
setting of passenger and freight rates being the most constraining regula-
tion.   The pulp and paper industry suffers from distorted policies and
regulations in the forestry sector which contribute to raw material costs
which compare unfavorably with those of competing countries; furthermore,
there is need for improved incentives to promote waste paper collection,
classification and processing and for reduced duties on inputs and outputs
to foster industry competitiveness.   As for the cement industry, it is
characterized by a tightly controlled distribution system that perpetuates
de facto import control and price ceilings.
1.18      These  subsectoral  problems  call  for  an  examination  of  the
physical and financial restructuring needs of the subsectors as well as of
the policy and institutional changes required to foster competitiveness
and efficiency. More specifically, the following issues need to be delved
into more fully:  (a) the impact of trade policy on the structure of the
subsector and recommendations for policy improvements; (b) the role of
regulatory policy, in particular policies governing distribution and
pricing, in shaping the industry, and how the policy might be improved;
(c) cost structures in the Philippines, now and potentially after rehabil-
itation, and proposals for physical restructuring of the industry; (d)
investments necessary to increase efficiency of distribution and produc-
tion and (e) financial distress in the subsector and options for financial
restructuring. Issues specific to the pulp and paper subsector that need
further examination are:   the efficiency of raw material production and
processing; desirable changes in policies governing tree farming and tree
plantations for pulp production.  Specific issues facing the inter-island
shipping subsector which need study are:   the feasibility and scope of
fleet restructuring, repair yard modernization and privatization of
government owned companies. These subsectoral issues will be addressed in
the studies forming part of the TA component of the proposed Project.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.1       The industrial policy reforms designed to improve the environ-
ment for efficient private production and investment, presented in Chapter
I, were accompanied by financial sector reforms.  In 1980, the Government
initiated policies that led to deregulation of interest rates and libera-
lization of exchange controls, with the result that the financial system
is now characterized by market-determined interest rates and an open
capital account.   Following the dislocations in the real sectors during
1983-85 and the concomitant disarray of the financial sector, the Govern-
ment undertook measures for rehabilitating government-owned financial
institutions, notably the Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP), in the context of the Economic Reco-
very Loan (ERL; Loan No. 2787-PH, 1987). With the restructuring of these
two financial institutions largely accomplished and the banking sector



- 7 -
having regained its health, what remains to be done is to put the finan-
cial sector on a firm enough footing to support the significant shifts in
resource allocation which the economy must undertake in respense to the
new array of incentives put in place with the stabilization and reform
programs of recent years.   In addition,  the financial  sector must be
relied on to mobilize a large quantity of private savings, and to inter-
mediate funds at reasonable cost to new productive activities.   Conse-
quently,  the Government has embarked on a series of financial  sector
reforms which would be supported by the Bank through a Financial Sector
Adjustment Program Loan (FSAL), approved on May 3, 1989.  The aim is to
make the banking sector more competitive and responsive to the needs of
the real sectors. An important component of the reform program is to
improve the institutional arrangements for the provision of long-term
credit; this involves the transformation of DBP into a wholesale bank
channeling funds to the private sector through retail financial institu-
tions.   By providing funds to DBP to help it carry out its wholesale
functions, the proposed Project fits into the overall strategy for develo-
pment of the country's financial sector.
B. Evolution and Structure
2.2       As of December 31, 1988, assets of the financial system totalled
3 879 billion, representing an increase from 1980 of 1802 in nominal terms
but a decline of 23X in real terms.  The major components of the system,
their nominal size and percentage distribution in 1980 versus 1988 are
presented in Annex 2.01.
2.3       Commercial Banks.  The commercial banks account for the largest
share of total  assets of the financial  system.   During 1980-86,  the
banking sector underwent substantial contraction in real terms as a result
of the political turmoil and economic shocks experienced by the country:
total assets contracted by 44Z in real terms; loans to the private sector
contracted even more sharply, by 632.  Between 1980 and mid-1987, three
commercial banks, 147 rural banks and 32 thrift institutions, involving
total assets of P 14 billion (US$700 million equivalent), failed.   These
failures were compounded by the de facto insolvency of the largest commer-
cial bank, PNB.   With increasing stability and improvement in the real
sectors starting in 1986, the health of the banking sector has steadily
improved as evidenced by good profit margins in 1986-88. As an additional
indication, the banks' capital adequacy ratios have improved in recent
years: loan volumes contracted sharply in 1984-86 while the bank margins
improved substantially, resulting in improved capital-to-assets and
capital-to-loans ratios in 1986 and 1987.   There are now 29 banks,  of
which four are foreign and one (PNB, still the biggest) is government-
owned.   Privately-owned banks  form,  by far,  the largest part of the
banking system.   Seven banks are licensed as universal banks,  a clas-
sification that allows them to engage in many near-banking activities such
as those undertaken by investment banks, leasing companies and finance
companies.
2.4       Non-bank  Institutions.    The  next  largest  component  of  the
financial system comprises the non-banks, which include insurarce comp-



-8-
anies, pension funds, investment institutions, trust operations and
others.   Their assets amount to P 138 billion, or 162 of the system's
financial assets. The most important are insurance companies (with assets
of P 75 billion) and investment institutions, i.e., finance and investment
companies (with assets of P 24 billion).
2.5       The Securities Market.   Though there are two operating stock
exchanges, the Manila Stock Exchange and the Makati Stock Exchange, the
equities market in the Philippines is still small relative to the totality
of the financial system. In 1985, market capitalization of the 138 listed
securities was P 12.74 billion, representing 32 of systemwide assets,
compared with 4Z in Korea, 52 in Thailand, 92 in Taiwan, 122 in India, and
242 in Malaysia, in the same year.  Renewed confidence brought about by a
new Government and the higher earnings prospects of companies has led to
growth of the market capitalization in the last three years, with the 141
companies  listed in 1988 valued at F 88.6 billion.   Nonetheless,  the
securities market has yet to function as an important source of investment
capital; the primary market for equity remains small: except for addition-
al issues through stock dividends and pre-emptive rights offerings, new
issues are rare.   As for the secondary market in equities, it has been
active, with the market turning around and breaking all previous records
in 1986 and 1987.   The 1986 turnover of P 11.47 billion represented an
increase of 5552 over the preceding year's turnover of P 2.07 billion
while that of 1987, F 31.35 billion, was a 2732 increase over 1986.   In
1988, turnover was P 23.90 billion.
2.6       Foreign investments in Philippine securities totalled US$ 61.8
million in 1988.  Hong Kong-based dealers accounted for the biggest block
of foreign investors in Philippine securities with a share of 64.1Z of the
total volume of portfolio investments, followed by the United States
(23.6Z) and the United Kingdom (5.0Z).  These portfolio investments were
primarily in commercial sector securities (68.22), with the rest invested
in mining sector issues (16.8Z), financial sector securities (11.12) and
oil and manufacturing (3.42).
2.7       As for corporate debt securities, both the primary and secondary
markets are small, with very few issues being offered in the public
market. As of year-end 1987 there were F 3.36 billion registered commer-
cial paper issues, but only P 1.16 billion were sold in the market.
There have been no new corporate bond issues.  The government securities
market is far more active, with national government bond issues totalling
approximately F 34.0 billion and those of government-controlled corpora-
tions and the Central Bank of the Philippines (CBP) being about F 4.0
billion and P 7.4 billion, respectively.  Government bonds are not widely
traded because they carry fixed interest rates which are far below market
rates. They are consequently issued with "sweeteners" such as eligibility
for bank reserves and as substitutes for mandated agricultural lending.
The largest issued and actively traded government securities are T-bills,
which had a total of P 107.5 billion outstanding as of end-1987.



- 9 -
2.8       Leasing.   Introduced in the Philippines in 1957,  the leasing
industry consists of financing companies which act as lessors.   Super-
vision is carried out by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in
consultation with CBP. The industry's growth was stunted by the political
and economic crises in the earlier part of this decade. In view of the
country's substantial investment needs in durable equipment, the use of
leasing as a financing instrument has been quite limited. As of September
30, 1988, the nine leading lessors had an outstanding lease portfolio of
P 1.4 billion distributed thus: motor vehicles, 31.5?; industrial
machinery, 10.4?; business and office machines, lOZ; heavy equipment, 9.1X
and others, 34Z.
C. Major Financial Sector Policies
2.9       Interest Rate Policy.  There has been a gradual move away from a
regime of close control over interest rates combined with restrictions on
international payments, current as well as capital, to a system which in
practice is open to international flows and charac~terized by market-
determined  interest  rates.    Starting  in  1980,  ceilings  on  various
categories of bank lending and deposit rates were eased and then progres-
sively removed.  The last deposit rate ceiling (on deposits with maturity
of two years or less) was removed in mid-1981, and the last lending rate
ceiling (on short-term loans) on January 1, 1983. Before the deregulation
of interest rates, the banks had been circumventing the ceiling through a
proliferation of additional charges and fees.   The change thus brought
greater transparency to the system.   Real interest rates in the Philip-
pines have remained substantially positive for deposits as well as lend-
ing, except in 1983, when inflation suddenly flared up.
2.10      Foreign Exchange Pricing and Allocation.   From the system of
foreign exchange rationing introduced in October 1983, there has been a
progressive  liberalization of exchange controls.   Banks are no longer
subject to control on their holdings of foreign exchange. Despite remain-
ing controls on capital movements, wholesale funds are relatively free to
move in and out of the Philippines. The relatively small gap between the
official and open market exchange rates in recent times illustrates this
openness and the small practical relevance of controls.
2.11      CBP/Government Role in Credit Allocation.   Until recently, the
Government/CBP played a direct role in credit allocation in sectors
considered by it to have priority: it did so by designing credit programs
and subsequently assuming responsibility for obtaining funding for them
and their implementation.   It is estimated that these programs, which
cover both agriculture and industry, accounted for about 52 to 7? of total
banking sector loans outstanding at the end of 1986. Most of the agricul-
tural programs involved subsidies. The subsidy provided to the end users
of funds under 13 major agricultural sector credit programs for which data
are available amounted to at least P 3.4 billion during 1981-86 in the
form of lower than market interest rates and uncollected loans.   As a
percentage of the annual budget deficit during this period, subsidies on



- 10 -
these 13 programs ranged from a low of 2Z in 1986 to a high of 82 in 1983.
The cost to the Government was substantially higher than the amount of
P 3.4 billion stated above if the following additional items were con-
sidered: interest rate subsidies and uncollected loans for the smaller
programs for which data are not available; administrative expenses of the
implemenfing agencies including CBP; and government equity in failed rural
banks and the tax exemptions granted to them.
2.12      The policy  in government-sponsored credit programs  in  recent
years, however, has been to move towards elimination of subsidies; for all
major programs, the on-lending rates are now market oriented.   Moreover,
the basic nature of many of the programs is changing so that while they
still reflect broad government objectives, decisions on lending to
individual borrowers and the credit risks involved are now left to the
banking system.
D. Financial Sector Reforms
2.13      As  pointed  out  in para.  2.3,  the  sharp  contraction  of  the
economy during the first half of the eighties had its inevitable impact on
the banking system and highlighted its weaknesses and fragility.   In the
wake of this distress and pressure on the banking system, there has also
been a spate of legal suits against CBP and its personnel, hampering CBP's
role as the supervisor and regulator of the financial system. The present
institutional arrangement for safeguarding the interests of insured
depositors has also proved inadequate. In addition, the expected increase
in the demand for investment credit has prompted concern about the absence
of an institutional framework for the mobilization and provision of long-
term funds for investment purposes.
2.14      The first financial sector reforms undertaken by the Government
to address the problems and concerns stated above were in the context of
the ERL in 1986-87. As its main focus was on adjustment and stabilization
of the whole economy, ERL dealt with only the most pressing of the finan-
cial sector problems: the rehabilitation of the government financial
institutions (GFIs).  The  GFIs had suffered from outside interference in
lending decisions, the undertaking of costly government credit programs
without reimbursement, lack of internal controls and auditing, poor
management practices in terms of lending decisions and portfolio manage-
ment, and excessive size and diversity of functions.  At the same time,
their special position allowed them unlimited use of government deposits,
exemptions from taxes and access to government-guaranteed borrowings.  In
the context of ERL, the Government undertook a reform program centering on
the rehabilitation of PNB and DBP, the two largest GFIs. During 1986, the
Government, recognizing the de facto insolvency of these two institutions,
arranged a transfer of all their non-performing assets of P 10 million or
more each to the Asset Privatization Trust (APT) for workout, and relieved
them of the corresponding liabilities.   Institutional strengthening plans
were also adopted at the same time.   PNB's financial restructuring plan
involved a reduction of its assets from P 79 billion to P 26 billion.
The restructuring of DBP is described in detail in Chapter III.



- 11 -
2.15      The GFI  reform program  also  laid the groundwork  for  future
reform of the Social Security System (SSS), the Government Service In-
surance System (GSIS), Philguarantee and the Land Bank of the Philippines
based on detailed policy studies of these institutions.   Furthermore,
under the ERL, the Government undertook to privatize the six commercial
banks taken over by the Government because of their weak financial condi-
tion. Thus far, two banks have been fully and two partially privatized;
privatization of the remaining two banks is envisaged in the near future
after the litigation involving them is resolved.
2.16     With the rehabilitation and financial restructuring of PNB and
DBP substantially completed, the stage was set for a comprehensive review
of the financial system, carried out by the Bank and supported by the
Government.   The resulting Financial Sector Study (FSS) 3  identified the
following as four critical problem areas: (a) supervision and regulation
of commercial banks, including the governing legal framework; (b) institu-
tional arrangements for the protection of insured depositors; (c) high
intermediation costs and lack of effective competition; and (d) institu-
tional arrangements for the mobilization and provision of long-term
capital.
2.17      Based on the FSS findings, a Financial Sector Adjustment Program
to be supported by a US$300 million Bank loan (FSAL; Loan No. 3049-PH,
1989) has been designed for implementation in the next two years.   The
program involves specific actions in the problem areas listed in paragraph
2.16. Bank supervision and regulation would be improved by (a) strengthe-
ning the legal and supervisory framework so as to empower CBP to take
corrective actions in a timely fashion with respect to problem banks and,
if necessary, to effect bank closures; (b) improving the supervisory and
regulatory procedures; and (c) separating the supervisory and regulatory
function  from  receivership-liquidation.       Arrangements  for  depositor
protection would be strengthened by enlarging the role of the Philippines
Deposit Insurance Corporation to empower it to act as receiver-liquidator
of failing banks and strengthening it financially and institutionally to
enable it to play that role effectively.   Intermediation costs would be
reduced through promotion of more effective competition, reduction and
elimination of certain fiscal impositions as well as improvement of laws
governing debt recovery and insolvencies.   Fund mobilization and medium-
and long-term credit delivery would be enhanced through actions involving
a revamping of DBP to enable it to act essentially as a wholesaler of
long-term funds, and the elimination of CBP's role in credit allocation.
E. Institutional Arrangements for Providing Long-Term Credit
2.18      Under the FSAL, CBP has agreed to continue to reduce sharply,
and ultimately eliminate, its direct involvement in the management of
government-sponsored  credit  allocation  programs.    Since mid-1986,  the
3/  Philippines:  Financial Sector Study (Report No. 7177-PH,
August 23, 1988).



- 12 -
responsibility for making policy decisions regarding a number of agricul-
tural programs has shifted to the Comprehensive Agricultural Loan Fund
(CALF). The reduction of CBP's role in administering credit programs will
be pursued further by transferring the administrative responsibility for
remaining agriculture sector credit programs to CALF; the sole exception
is the Agricultural Loan Fund which will likely be transferred to the Land
Bank of the Philippines. The administrative responsibility for industrial
sector programs will be assigned to a revamped DBP (see para. 3.9). When
these measures have been completed, CBP will have completely withdrawn
from the management of credit allocation programs, and its role would be
confined to liquidity management through discount window operations.
2.19     While the banking system has been able to meet most short-term
credit needs, the provision of long-term credit has been inadequate.
Indeed, the most significant gap in the current financing system is in the
provision of long-term credit. With the shrinking of lending activity by
DBP and PNB concurrent with their rehabilitation programs, the specialized
government institutions have not made a substantial contribution to the
supply of term credit in the last three years.  Their share in the total
credit made available to the manufacturing sector, for example, declined
sharply from a high of 43Z in 1984 to only about 22 in 1986.  As for the
commercial banking system, the short-term nature of their lending and
their caution became even more pronounced in recent years with the turmoil
the financial system went through.   The limited amount of term lending
made by the commercial banks is usually through "roll-over, of short-term
loans. The short-term horizon of lenders and investors is not surprising
in view of the interest rate and exchange rate volatility during the last
decade. Term transformation has not been accomplished to any significant
degree because the banks have been unwilling to assume the liquidity risk.
This has resulted in a situation wherein the main sources of medium - and
long-term funding in the Philippines have been the government-directed
credit programs described earlier.   Instead of lending from resources
raised from the market, the banks merely acted as lending conduits for
funds borrowed by the Government from foreign sources or to a lesser
extent, provided from the budget.
2.20     The situation is expected to worsen as the demand for investment
credit increases with the growth of the economy.  The current constraint
on the availability of long-term credit reflects a lack of adequate
arrangements regarding credit,  interest rate and liquidity risks.   The
credit risk in long-term lending in itself is substantial, and commercial
banks will be willing to assume such risk only if arrangements are made to
relieve them of another accompanying risk, i.e., the liquidity risk.
Given the liquidity crises of the past, banks are unwilling to assume the
liquidity risk inherent in term transformation, and their present liabi-
lity maturities are not, nor are they expected in the foreseeable future
to be, long enough to enable the banks to lend long-term.
2.21     However, some domestic long-term resources are available in the
system from institutional savers like insurance companies, SSS and GSIS
and pension funds.   It is estimated that gross premium receipts in 1986
amounted to P 5.8 billion and P 5.7 billion for private and public in-



- 13 -
surance companies,  respectively.   Also,  it is generally believed,  and
confirmed by the institutions, that the annual increments to investible
funds are quite large.   For pension funds, the estimate for incremental
funds mobilized in 1986 was at least P 600 million.   These institutions
are also willing to invest long-term in the private sector if suitable
opportunities are identified, i.e. they are willing to assume the maturity
risk.  As for the interest rate risk, the end users have already shown
their willingness to assume it by borrowing on a variable rate basis.
What is needed is to develop a financially viable institutional arrange-
ment to bring the providers and users of long-term funds together.
2.22     Given the availability of domestic long-term funds through GSIS,
SSS, pension funds and insurance companies on the one hand, and the lack
of long-term credit on the other hand, the FSS identified the need for a
financial institution to assume the role of a wholesaler by mobilizing
long-term funds and channelling them to other financial institutions
(retail) for onlending to individual enterprises.   According to agreed
FSAL measures, a revamped DBP will fulfill this role in line with an
Institutional Development Plan which spells out its new role.    As a
wholesale institution, DBP will not assume the credit risk on the in-
dividual subloans.   Chapter III provides a detailed descr 'ption of the
strategic reorientation of DBP.
F. Industrial Credit
2.23     The Bank's growth projections, based on an assumption of con-
tinued good policy performance and a favorable external environment,
suggest an average overall GDP growth in the Philippines of about 62, with
a rate of 8Z for industry, during the 1989-92 period.   Achieving this
target will necessitate a gradual increase in the rate of investment, from
the 1988 level of 18Z of GNP to at least 22Z.  Financing this investment
will be a major challenge to the financial system in the next few years.
2.24     Short-term Working Capital Credit.         The larger creditworthy
enterprises obtain the working capital finance they need from the banking
system.   Smail and medium enterprises  (SMEs) have generally relied on
trade credits, internal cash generation, loans from informal credit
sources (usually family and friends), and, to a limited extent, loans from
commercial banks.   Recently, due largely to their excess liquidity and
lack of alternative investment opportunities, commercial banks have begun
to lend to well-collateralized SMEs with whom they have established
relationships, usually through the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF)
program.   The expectation is that since the banks'  relationships with
these SMEs have now been established, they will continue to have their
working capital needs met unless the economic recovery attains such
strength that there is a general liquidity squeeze.
2.25     Demand for Industrial Term Credit.   The business  community,
financial institutions and government officials feel strongly that demand
for term credit will increase substantially as political stability in the
country is sustained and macroeconomic conditions improve.  Credit demand
has thus far been mostly for working capital and, to an extent, for
l



- 14 -
investment capital to enable firms to reach full capacity utilization.
There is, however, now a substantial need for financing expansion and new
projects in industry as existing production facilities have reached their
full capacity.
2.26      A  reviev  of  the project  pipelines  of  financial  institutions
active in the provision of term credit to industry suggests that for the
creditworthy large-scale enterprises, concrete demand as evidenced by
actual loan applications would amount to around P 8.5 billion for 1989-90.
Demand for term credit by SMEs in the formal industrial sector is expected
to be around P 4 billion for the same period. Thus, term credit demand of
approximately P 12.5 billion by the formal private industrial sector for
1989-90 appears to be a reasonable estimate. A conservative assumption of
an annual growth rate of 5% in demand for term credit over the next three
years, in line with prevailing estimates of GNP growth, would lead to a
projection of about P 20 billion (US $950 million equivalent) for the term
credit needs of the formal private sector in industry during the 1989-91
period.
2.27      An evaluation of demand for finance by the private sector should
also include the financing needs arising from the restructuring and
rehabilitation of industrial enterprises.  In the subsectors discussed in
paras. 1.16-1.16 and Annex 1.03, many firms are finding it difficult to
maintain adequate levels of working capital finance and service their
debt. For such firms, the need is for extensive financial restructuring,
converting their short-term borrowings into long-term debt to conserve
cash flow and remove uncertainty, in addition to physical restructuring.
Preliminary estimates by a recent World Bank mission looking into indus-
trial restructuring needs suggest that for the cement, textile and gar-
ment, and pulp and paper subsectors alone, at least US$500 million
(P 10.5 billion) would be needed over the next three years.
2.28      Supply of Industrial Term Credit.  Credit by the banking system
to manufacturing increased substantially between 1980 and 1984, but then
declined sharply in line with falling growth rates of value added in the
sector, as Annex 2.02 shows.   Reflecting the continued acceleration in
economic activity, outstanding loans of the commercial banks to the
manufacturing sector grew substantially in 1937 and 1988.  If past trends
continue, the commercial banks, which do not have long-term resources to
on-lend, will continue to concentrate on the provision of credit on a
short-term basis, using the short-term 'revolving" bank loan as the
primary debt instrument and leaving the demand for term credit unsatis-
fied.   It is in this context of paucity of term credit, that the proposed
Project for financing private medium-scale and large enterprises was
developed.
2.29      Given the estimated demand for industrial term credit of US$950
million (US$1.45 billion if industrial restructuring needs are included)
for 1989-91, the term finance available to the sector is inadequate: the
IGLF program would make US$275 million available for SME term financing
(including US$60 million from the Bank, US$100 million from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and US$28 million from local financial institu-



- 15 -
tions) whereas the Asean Japan Development Fund (AJDF) would provide
US$300-350 million to all sectors,  including agriculture.   This would
leave a gap of at least US$325 million (US$825 million if restructuring
requirements are also considered), after taking into account the funds
supplied by the various sources,  including AJDF and ADB.   The proposed
Bank loan of US$65 million for financing medium-scale and large industrial
enterprises is therefore a conservative amount, compared to expected total
needs.   As  for the  substantial  financing  requirements  for  industrial
restructuring, they could be addressed by a subsequent Bank operation,
depending on the findings of the subsectoral studies to be undertaken
under the proposed Project.
G. Bank Strategy In the Sector
2.30      Bank support for the proposed Project would be consistent with
its country assistance strategy of helping to sustain economic recovery
and bring about a structural transformation of the economy.   The Bank
remains committed to assisting the Government maintain a reasonable and
sustainable rate of growth in the industrial sector over the medium to
long term.   The recently completed Country Economic Memorandum and In-
dustrial Sector Reports4i identify areas where further improvements would
promote industrial sector growth.   These include:   continued policy and
regulatory reforms to encourage greater competition and more efficient
production; financial and physical restructuring of many large firms in
the face of a changing policy environment which better recognizes the
Philippinies' comparative advantage in labor; expanded availability of
long-term finance; and measures to boost exports.   To support the in-
dustrial sector, therefore, Bank assistance would take the form of policy
advice (related both to the industrial and financial sectors), institu-
tional support, and the transfer of term resources.   The dialogue with
Government on broad policy issues will continue in the context of economic
and sector work, and implementation of reform measures under the ERL
Program and the FSAL.
2.31      The proposed Project is a follow-up to the Industrial Finance
(Apex) Loan (Loan 1984-PH, 1981) designed to provide term funds to medium
and large industrial projects.  Under the Apex Loan, the Apex Development
Finance Unit was established as a separate unit in the Central Bank to on-
lend the proceeds of a US$150 million Bank loan and a commercial loan of
US$100 million to private sector enterprises through participating finan-
cial institutions (PFIs).    In the face of deteriorating economic condi-
tions, disbursement of Apex loan funds, however, was disappointing. What
discouraged loan utilization was the effective cost of funds to subbor-
rowers because of their assumption of the foreign exchange risk.   Given
the significant Peso depreciations since the Apex program was initiated,
potential subborrowers grew extremely averse to borrowing foreign currency
4/  Philippines:  Toward Sustaining the Economic Recovery (Report
No. 7438-PH, January 30, 1989); The Philippines: Issues and
Policies in the Industrial Sector (Report No. 6706-PH, July 30,
1987).



- 16 -
loans.   To increase the utilization of Apex funds, CBP decided in July
1984 to bear the foreign exchange risk on loans to export-oriented or
Import-substituting projects.  Even this did not help because the adverse
economic and political developments that subsequently occurred depressed
demand for medium - and long-term credit.   Total disbursement of Bank
funds amounted to only US$44.7 million while commercial loan funds dis-
bursed totalled US$32.2 million.  While approval and disbursement targets
were not met, the Apex program has been successful in achieving its
institution building objectives: it has made possible the establishment of
a semi-autonomous, professional Apex Unit within CBP and the development
of organizational units in each PFI that have the capability of handling
long-term, project based lending.   The proposed Project was designed in
the light of the experience of the Apex loan and incorporates changes in
the denomination of the subloan currency and assumption of the foreign
exchange risk to remedy past problems.
2.32      The Bank's continuing participation in the term financing of
industry at this time is a logical step since the proposed Project will
(a) assist the industrial sector exploit the opportunities provided by the
improved economic and socio-political environment; and (b) build upon the
successful institution-building experience of the Apex project as well as
on the restructuring of DBP undertaken in the context of the ERL Program
(Chapter III).  Given the size of the financing gap and the modest amount
of the Bank loan, the Bank funds will be complementary to, rather than
crompeting with, other suppliers of funds.  The TA component dealing with
industrial subsectors would facilitate and enhance the Bank's dialogue
with the Government on industrial restructuring and lay the groundwork for
a program of reforms that may be supported by future subsector lending
operations.
III. THE BORROWER AND PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Development Bank of the Philippines
Introduction
3.1        DBP would be  the borrower of  the proposed Bank  loan,  the
proceeds of which it would relend to participating financial institutions
(PFIs) for on-lending to medium-scale and large enterprises. The proposed
operation is designed in the context of a long-term Institutional Develop-
ment Plan for DBP that, as made clear in Chapter II,  is linked to a
coherent vision of the evolution of the overall financial sector.  As a
result of its rehabilitation under ERL, DBP is already moving towards
integration into the market-based financial system that characterizes the
Philippines: precluded from reliance on government resources, notably
deposits,  it is now self-sustaining;  its lending policies are   market-
oriented; and its role in the system will be defined as being that of a
predominantly wholesale bank for onlending funds to retail financial
institutions rather than to end-users.   The proposed Project would rein-
force the expected evolution of DBP by strengthening its wholesale lending
function through provision of term funds for relending to PFIs and by
monitoring its progress in achieving its wholesale lending targets.



- 17 -
Historical Perspective: 1958-1986
3.2        Established in 1958 as a Government-owned development bank,
DBP's financing operations until 1986 encompassed almost all segments of
the economy, and both large and small-scale enterprises.  In addition to
its industrial, agricultural, real estate and transportation lending, DBP
engaged heavily in lending to social sectors such as education and health
care.   Starting in the seventies, under the guise of its developmental
mission, DBP financed high-risk and low-return government development
programs ("directed" or "behest* lending), and the takeover of financially
distressed firms at Government's direction.
3.3        This lack of financial discipline in its lending, compounded by
serious weaknesses in internal organization and procedures (notably credit
appraisal and supervision), led to serious financial problems.   In the
early 1970s, the total debt to equity ratio rose to over 10:1; the current
ratio fell to 0.2:1; and arrears in the loan portfolio and defaults in the
guarantee portfolio were high.   With its resource mobilization capacity
undermined, DBP had to rely mainly on government deposits for funding its
activities.
3.4        Several capital increases between 1972 and 1980, substantial
government deposits to support its liquidity position, and various meas-
ures to strengthen its organization and procedures all failed to stop
DBP's deterioration in the early eighties.  Serious portfolio arrears and
poor collection rates persisted, as did the more intractable issue of
high-risk and low-rate behest loans.  As part of the Industrial Finance
Loan, the Government and DBP were asked to implement an "Action Program",
which included further organizational changes, measures to reduce DBP's
dependence on government deposits, and actions to improve the collection
performance.   The financial effects of 'behest" lending were to be made
transparent, and Government was to provide financial assistance if DBP's
financial viability would be impaired as a result of "behest' lending.
However, continuation of DBP's problems, exacerbated by the economic and
political crises of the period, led to DBP losing its accreditation as a
participating financial institution in the project.   Consequently, Bank
loans to DBP were suspended.  As evident in Annex 3.01 and in Table 3.1
below, DBP's financial situation in 1985 remained poor, with a net loss of
P 6.9 billion (US$370 million equivalent) and a high debt/equity ratio of
15:1.
DBP's Rehabilitation: 1986-88
3.5        Following the advent of a new Government in 1986, the severity
of DBP's problems and its technical bankruptcy were addressed by a com-
prehensive rehabilitation and financial restructuring program developed in
conjunction with -the Bank-financed ERL. Major components included: (a) a
new charter and policy statement, (b) installation of a new management
team and Board of Directors, (c) transfer of P 74 billion of non-perform-
ing accounts to the Asset Privatization Trust (APT), created by the
Government to sell those assets; (d) implementation of a drastic cost



- 18 -
reduction program through staff reduction and sale of branches; (e) an
internal reorganization and strengthening program focussing on credit
policies, legal procedures, financial controls, accounting and internal
controls, and personnel management; and (f) phasing out of subsidized
Government deposits.
3.6        DBP's  financial  restructuring and the major elements of its
internal strengthening program under the ERL have essentially been com-
pleted, witth DBP being solvent during the last two years (Annex 3.01).
Its recent performance, summarized in Table 3.1, shows that DBP has met
and, in some areas, bettered the ERL targets set jointly by the Bank, the
Government and DBP.   Its indicators of capital adequacy,  liquidity and
earnings performance are sound.   DBP's debt/equity ratio is now a very
conservative 1.2:1, compared to the ceiling of 5:1 set under the ERL.
Earnings indicators look impressive: return on assets is 14.4X; return on
average net worth, 38.42. DBP's performance also compares favorably with
that of leading private financial institutions in the Philippines (paras.
3.27-3.28 and Table 3.3), except for its relativelv higher administrative
expenses; these, however, are expected to decline as a percentage of
average total assets over the coming years as its loan volume increases
and its activities shift from retail to primarily wholesale banking which
is less personnel-intensive.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF DBP'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1985-88
(Peso billion)
ERL
1985     1986   1987  1988  Targets
Total Loans Outstanding                  27.5      5.27   4.39  5.01       n.a.
Total Debt                               67.6      6.82   7.G7  6.32      n.a.
Total Equity                              4.5      2.68   3.46  5.11      n.a.
Net Income                                6.9       5.6    0.8   1.6       n.a.
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                              15.0       2.5    2.0   1.2       5.0
Net Worth/Risk Assets (2)                11.3      35.9   37.4  52.8        10
Liquid Assets/Deposits and Short         0.57      35.5   26.8  57.6       n.a.
Term Borrowings (Z)
Liquid Assets/Deposits (Z)               63.1    208.4  161.3  64.5         80
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/            0     47.3   34.9  28.6   25-39
Total Loans (2)
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets (2)  (8.6)   (29.5)    9.7   9.2          4.5
Return on Average Net Worth (X)       (182.2)  (157.7)   25.5  38.4    10.0
Ldministrative Expenses/                   1.1      6.1    5.7   6.0       n.a
Average Total Assets (2)
Personnel Costs/Total Assets (2)          0.4       3.7    2.5   2.6  2.5-3.5



- 19 -
3.7        It should, however,  be pointed out that DBP's 1988 earnings
performance is not fully indicative of DBP's long-term earning capability
on a going concern basis.   Of the total operating revenues of P 2.6
billion, only 31Z is interest from loans, whereas 18S comes from invest-
ment in securities, primarily Governmenit issues, and SO  from the sale of
assets  acquired  through  foreclosure  on  loans made  prior  to  the  1986
rehabilitation.   This reflects the cautious investment approach taken in
the first two years after the financial restructuring.   As for interest
expense, P 1.4 billion of interest-free Government funds or 12? of total
funds, were on DBP's books in 1988; as these free deposits are gradually
being repaid (the rehabilitation schedule calls for full repayment by the
end of 1989), these funds will have to be replaced with higher-cost funds,
which would decrease the spread DBP is realizing.   This combination of
factors which reduce revenues and increase expenses will lead to lower,
though still positive, net returns in the future.
DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation
3.8        As described in paras 2.18-2.22, the recent FSS identified the
lack of institutional arrangements for mobilizing and channeling long-term
funds as a major constraint to investment and recommended that a revamped
DBP could be developed to fill this institutional gap.   This involves
mandating DBP to act as a predominantly wholesale financial institution,
catering to financial intermediaries rather than directly to business
enterprises.   Under the FASL, agreement with Government has been reached
on this new orientation.
3.9        The wholesale DBP would mobilize and channel term funds to the
private sector through retail financial institutions. Given the availa-
bility of domestic long-term funds from SSS, GSIS, insurance companies and
pension funds, DBP is expected to play a major role in domestic resource
mobilization. However, DBP's increased reliance on domestic resource
mobilization can only be gradual: in the near future, the lack of a
developed capital market and the Government's continuing need to tap
domestic savings through high-yield Treasury bills would impede DBP's
raising significant long-term peso funds.   In such an environment, DBP
will have to fund itself to a significant degree through foreign sources
in the coming years.   In this context,  DBP has been designated as a
principal conduit for official foreign borrowings, the proceeds of which
are to be channeled through retail financial institutions for financing
private enterprises.  In line with this, the Government has agreed to the
transfer from the Central Bank to DBP of the existing credit programs with
foreign funding -- the Apex Development Finance Program (APEX) and the
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF).  Moreover, DBP is expected to
be the main wholesale conduit for the AJDF.
3.10       As part of the FSAL, the Bank helped DBP formulate an Institu-
tional Development Plan (IDP) that defines and makes operational DBP's
wholesale banking strategy, including an action plan for mobilizing
domestic term funds.  DBP's transformation to a primarily wholesale bank
will be accomplished through a gradual reduction of its retail loan
approvals and outstanding retail loans to enterprises, relative to the



- 20 _
wholesale loan approvals and outstanding wholesale loans to financial
institutions.  Agreement has been reached under the FSAL that by the end
of 1993, DBP's portfolio is to be primarily wholesale.   Subject to the
availability of expected bilateral and multilateral funds, DBP projects
that 642 of its outstanding loan portfolio will consist of wholesale loans
by then.  Annex 3.02 provides details of the gradual reduction, in rela-
tive terms, of retail lending and the concomitant growth of wholesale
loans, as set out in the IDP.   During negotiations, DBP agreed to the
implementation of the IDP.
3.11       The  transition  will  also  entail  gradual  disinvestment  from
DBP's branch network. With the exception of 15 regional and metropolitan
branches, all branches will be pooled into five regional development
banks, which are to be privatized according to a schedule agreed under the
ERL as well as the FSAL.  By 1993, DBP's equity stake in these regional
development banks would have been reduced to 30X.
Organization and Management
3.12       Before 1987, the Board of Directors held day-to-day operational
responsibilities. Under the revised charter, the Board is a policy making
body distinct from management; only the Chairman and the Vire-Chairman of
the Board are also bank managers.  Composed of nine member  2ppointed by
the President of the Republic of the Philippines, the Boar, now includes
five members from the private sector.
3.13       DBP   has   developed   a   revised   organizational   structure
(Annex 3.03) that is appropriate for implementing its wholesale banking
strategy.   The guiding principles behind the new organization structure
are: (a) clear separation of funding and lending operations; and (b)
upgrading of the resource mobilization function by creating a Capital
Markets Department.  Given the increased importance of resource mobiliza-
tion, which has to be carried out in the financial markets by an indiv-
idual of high standing, the Capital Markets Department is headed by an
officer holding the rank of Vice President, reporting to the Executive
Vice-President in charge of the Treasury Group.  On the lending side, an
Executive Vice President for Marketing will oversee the Wholesale Loans
Department that will manage wholesale lending; the Entrepreneurial Banking
Department will be in charge of the Metro Manila Branch, and the Corporate
Banking Department will be in charge of project management.   The In-
dustrial Restructuring Unit (IRU), which forms part of the Strategic
Planning Center,  reports directly to the Chairman.   The two Executive
Vice-Presidents and the Senior Vice-President in charge of Accounting and
Administrative Services also report to the Vice-Chairman, who in turn
reports to the Chairman. An Internal Audit Department reports directly to
the Board of Directors.   The revised organizational structure and the
arrangements regarding the head of the Capital Markets Department and
staffing of the IRU were confirmed during negotiations.



- 21 -
Personnel Policy and Training
3.14       Under the ERL, DBP has reduced its staff from about 3500 to
2000,  mainly  through  an early  retirement  scheme.    The new wholesale
orientation of DBP is expected to lead to a further net staff decrease of
about 250:   selective recruitment of a small numbe'  of qualified indiv-
iduals to handle the new wholesale banking functions will be offset by
reductions in staff resulting from DBP's disinvestment from the branch
network and reassignment of existing staff from retail banking to whole-
sale banking.
3.15       A job and performance evaluation system as well as a merit
oriented financial reward system are in place, with the integration of the
two systems planned for end-1989.  The Chairman and senior management are
aware that the reorganized DBP must be able to offer compensation competi-
tive with the private financial sector, if it is to attract and retain the
high caliber staff necessary for it to perform its functions effectively.
Consequently, DBP now supplements its salaries with productivity bonuses.
In the last two years, DBP has been able to attract nine seniot officers
from leading private sector banks to head its departments.
3.16       DBP has engaged in extensive training of its staff in corporate
finance, loan packaging, financial analysis and legal issues. Aware that
the training efforts will have to be reoriented towards DBP's new ac-
tivities in wholesale banking, DBP's management is reviewing its training
needs for  the period 1989-92.   This assessment will take into account:
(a) the incorporation of the APEX and IGLF units currently in the Central
Bank; (b) the increased importance of resource mobilization efforts; and
(c) DBP's role in conducting iidustrial restructuring studies and acting
as a wholesale channel for loans.   As a first step, a training program in
industrial restructuring will be implemented as part of the TA component
of the IIC Project. During negotiations, an understanding was recorded in
the Minutes of Negotiations for Bank review of DBP's institution-wide
training program to follow the one on industrial restructuring.
Accounting and Management Information System
3.17       The flow of accounting data has improved substantially over the
last two years. Revised Branch and Head Office Accounting and Procedures
Manuals have been completed.   Liquidity and reserve summaries are gene-
rated daily; financial statements of branches and the head office are
consolidated monthly.    The general  ledger  is computerized  and closed
daily.  Subsidiary ledgers for loans, which had been booked separately by
lending groups and industries before the reorganization, have been centra-
lized in the Transactions Processing Department.   A central mainframe
computerized information system, acquired from Citibank,   is expected to
be operational by 1990.   This state-of-the-art system will provide an
integrated management information system that allows immediate access to
all transaction information which is stored in a centralized data base.
The system will also integrate on-line authorization and printing of
customer advices, and contract administration for loans, placements,
bonds, deposits, commitments, receivables and sundries until final



- 22 -
maturity.    The  system will  also  incorporate  an  automated  accounting
service.    Internal  communications within  the head office and between
branches and head office are expected to be comptterized by the end of
1989.   In the meantime,  the branches operate with stand-alone microcom-
puter systems for the general ledger, loans and liabilities and the
savings and current accounts.    The ongoing computerization and a system
of account profitability analysis are expected to improve the management
information system considerably.
Loan Activities and Asset Management
3.18       The DBP loRn window was reopened in mid-1986 after a hiatus of
four years during which no new loans were disbursed.   Since then, DBP's
investment policy has been conservative, with lending being primarily
short-term and excess liquidity being invested in securities, primarily
Government issues.   In 1987, DBP realized no positive new net lending,
while its securities portfolio grew by P 2.7 billion.  In 19,88, outstand-
ing loans increased by P 610 million, while investments in securities were
reduced by P 192 million.
3.19       DBP's lending in the coming years will consist of (a) wholesale
loans to PFIs, (b) retail loans to enterprises in areas where the commer-
cial banking system may still be hesitant to enter fully and (c) syndi-
cated loans wherein it will play a catalytic role in mobilizing the
participation of private sector banks.  Given its predominantly wholesale
orientation, the transfer of the IGLF program to DBP and its expected role
as the main AJDF wholesale conduit, wholesale loans outstanding are
projected to grow substantially, from P 3.8 billion in 1989 to P 31.1
billion in 1993.   The bulk of these loans will be for the industrial
sector.  Retail lending is projected to grow at a more modest pace, from
P 7.9 billion in 1989 to P 15.2 billion in 1993.
3.20       DBP uses  resources  from its  "Regional Development  Fund" to
extend loans that do not completely satisfy traditional commercial banking
risk or collateral criteria. Considered essential from a developmental
point of view, these loans involve concessions in one or more of the
following parameters -- interest rates, repayment terms, or collateral
requirements.   They are intended to finance mostly projects outside the
Metro Manila area which would introduce new technologies or manufacturing
processes, or projects enabling enterprises to reduce or minimize environ-
mental pollution. The Regional Development Fund comprises, and is limited
to, 30Z of each year's net income after taxes and repayments of loans
sourced from the Fund. As of December 1988, these loans amounted to P 74
million.   By 1993 these loans are projected at P 1.9 billion or 3.92 of
total loans outstanding.   The IDP provides that (a) the risk exposure of
these loans and compliance with the 30Z net income ceiling will be monit-
ored closely; and (b) appropriate provisions will be made to take into
account the potentially higher risk.   These provisions will be at least
1OZ above the average provisioning on conventional performing loans.



- 23 -
3.21       Recovery  of pre-rehabilitation  non-performing  loans  has met
with some success. Out of 6,000 non-performing accounts, representing P 4
billion, that remained on DBP's books after the transfer of the bigger
accounts to APT,  P 1.2 billion were collected on 3,800 accounts.   In
addition to standard loan collection and foreclosure activities, an
"incentive scheme for pretermination' has been devised. By offering the
debtors a roll-back of interest to 1984 (retroactive computing of interest
due on the basis of 1984 rates) and condonation of penalties in exchange
for a 20% downpayment and an agreed schedule of repayment of the
recomputed past due, DBP collected on about 300 formerly doubtful
accounts.   Loan loss reserves cover 98Z of the pre-rehabilitation port-
folio; actual arrears on this portfolio amounted to 65.9Z as of March 31,
1989. DBP intends to write off the past due accounts of this portfolio by
end-1989.   As for loans made after the rehabilitation (1986), loan loss
reserves are more than adequate: they amount to 112 though actual arrears
equalled only 1.98Z as of March 30, 1989. This low arrears ratio compares
favorably with the 4.0 average arrears ratio of the ten largest private
commercial banks. Given DBP's past history, its conservative provisioning
policy is appropriate.
Liability Management
3.22        The current average maturity of funding liabilities is about
1.8 years, against an average loan maturity of 3.8 years.  DBP's balance
sheet is now exceptionally liquid, with cash and due from banks represent-
ing 65Z of deposits.   In the coming years, liquidity will decrease some-
what as (a) interest-free Government deposits are reduced and (b) wholesa-
le lending activities grow.
3.23       To fund its projected lending, DBP intends to supplement its
foreign currency sources by actively tapping the domestic capital market.
As a wholesale institution, DBP aims at playing a major role in domestic
resource mobilization.    In addition  to promoting an active  secondary
market and lobbying for appropriate regulatory changes designed to open up
the primary market, DBP will enter the market for its own account by
Issuing a variety of instruments, specially designed to tap different
categories  of  institutional  investors.    Through  recruitment  of a few
experts in its Treasury Group, DBP would acquire the required capabilities
for designing, packaging, timing, pricing and placing its debt instru-
ments.   Given investors'  current preference for short-term paper,  DBP
envisages that it would initially launch a P 300 million, 3-year, bond
issue in 1990 to establish its presence in the market.  Favorable recep-
tion in the market would then be followed up by a P 500 million issue in
1991 and further issues with longer maturities and lower coupons, to the
extent allowed by market conditions and crowding-out effects resulting
from government funding requirements.  DBP's efforts at domestic resource
mobilization will be closely monitored during the supervision of the
Project by the Bank.



_ 24 -
Proiected Financial Position and Performance
3.24       Though DBP's performance still has room for improvement,  its
results for the last two years show that DBP is now endowed with features
that enable real optimism regarding its future prospects.  It has a new
management that has demonstrated a willingness and an ability to make hard
decisions; it has developed a focused strategy and has restructured its
organization to   implement that strategy; it has developed and is im-
plementing improved controls and procedures.   Of equal importance,  its
operations are to be governed by a set of policies designed to ensure that
it avoids the mistakes of the past.  On April 5, 1989, DBP's Board ap-
proved a new Policy Statement (Annex 3.04) which reflects its wholesale
lending orientation and which deals with, among other things, DBP's
investment policies, financial prudence limits and capital structure.
Salient features of the Policy Statement provide for: (a) private sector
orientation with autonomy in decision-making; (b) an interest rate and
fees policy that is consistent with prevalent market rates and ihat
ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs, including
provisions as required, plus an adequate profit margin; (c) prudent
interest rate and maturity match between its assets and liabilities; and
(d) a debt-equity ratio not exceeding 5:1.  These market-oriented poli-
cies, implemented by its now more streamlined organization under new
management, should enhance and speed up the integration of DBP into the
market-based financial system of the Philippines. DBP has agreed to carry
out the Project in accordance with its Policy Statement. Barring an unex-
pected deterioration in the macroeconomic environment, DBP is now poised
for growth.
3.25       Detailed projections of DBP's future financial performance are
presented in Annex 3.02 and summarized in Table 3.2.  These projections
are of an indicative nature, as the assumptions underlying them are
dependent on general macroeconomic conditions, the development of the
local capital market, and the availability of bilateral and multilateral
funds.
Table 3.2: SUlMHARY OF DBP'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1989-1993
(Peso Billion )
Year                                     1989    1990  1991   1992    1993
Wholesale Loans Outstanding               3.85   13.23  18.03  23.90   31.13
Retail Loans Outstanding                  7.88    9.00  11.34  13.31   15.17
Total Debt                              10.24   19.21  25.45  32.39   40.09
Total Equity                             5.16    6.11   6.99   8.17    9.67
Net Income                               0.84    0.96   0.88   1.18    1.41
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                              1.9      3.1    3.6    3.9      4.3.
Liquid Assets/Deposits and
Short Term Borrowings (Z)             20.7    27.4   31.5   34.4    28. 
Liquid Assets/Deposits (Z)              26.2    32.9   33.9   34.4    28.3
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/
Total Loans (2)                      8.1      3.9    4.0    3.7      3.8
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets(Z)      6.6      6.7    6.6    6.4      6.3
Return on Average Net Worth (2)         17.7    17.0   13.4   15.6    15.8
Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets (2)               4.6     2.6    1.9    1.6      1.4



- 25 -
Audit
3.26      In addition to the audit performed by the Government Commission
on Audit, a private independent firm audits DBP's annual financial state-
ments.  Continued use of independent external auditors, agreed under the
FSAL, will help enhance DBP's ongoing efforts to build a positive market
reputation and image in the financial community.
B. The Participating Financial Institutions
3.27      The seven PFIs identified by DBP for possible participation in
the proposed Project are privately-owned and comprise six commercial banks
and one investment house. As of December 31, 1988, they accounted for 222
of total assets of the financial system excluding the Central Bank.  In
terms of assets, four of the PFIs are among the five largest commercial
banks in the country.   Key financial data and ratios on the PFIs are
presented in Annex 3.05 and summarized in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3 PFIs - FINANCIAL DATA AND RATIOS
(December 81, 1988)
Return on
Total  Average    Debt/  Risk Assets/  Liquid Aaata/  Adm. Expenase/
Aaeto  Net ;r.fh  Equity   Net Worth  Deposita  Avg. Totel Assets
PFI           (P Ei lion)  (1)  (T.1is)  (Tiese)  (I)  (S)
For East Bank       28.09  24.9   11.6  6.3     57.6        4.1
Bank of Philippine Islands  26.28  22.5  12.8  6.1  62.7    4.1
Hetropolitan Bank   26.05  27.1   16.8  8.6     57.0        3.4
PCIB                19.68  21.2    8.0  4.4     54.6        4.9
Citytrust            8 09   16 9   7 9  3.8     95.8 a.0
International Corporate Bank  7.27  15.4  5.6  380  116.1   4.9
Anscor Capital and Investment Corp. 0.29  13.5  0.8  1.0  n.a.  6.6
3.28      All the seven PFIs being considered have good profitability,
with annual return on average net worth ranging from 13.5Z to 27.1? and
averaging 20.2?.   This compares with an average of 20.0? for the ten
largest private commercial banks.   Although their debt/equity ratios
ranged from a low of 0.8:1 to a high of 16.3:1 and averaged 9:1, they all
are in compliance with CBP's maximum risk assets to capital ratio require-
ment of 10:1. Moreover, they have all maintained a satisfactory liquidity
position.
3.29      The identified PFIs have both the past record and the potential
to operate effectively as term-lenders if provided with term funds.
Having participated in the Apex project, six of the seven PFIs have
experience in term-lending and have organizational units with the skills
to undertake project financing.  They all have good management and well-
trained staff.



- 26 -
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Project Objectives
4.1.       The proposed Project would help fill the gap in the supply of
term credit to medium and large industrial enterprises with healthy
operations  and  good  business  prospects;  improve  credit  delivery  for
industry by assisting DBP to carry out its wholesale banking function of
channeling term funds to retail financial institutions; broaden the scope
of financial services available to enterprises; help promote development
of the capital market by introducing, on a pilot basis, the financing of
equity and quasi-equity investments by participating financial institu-
tions (PFIs); support and develop, within DBP and the Department of Trade
and Industry (DTI), capabilities to conduct analytical and policy-oriented
studies on industrial subsectors; and assist the Government in identify-
ing, in selected subsectors, the policy and institutional framework which
would provide the correct signals and support for these subsectors to
become internationally competitive and efficient.
B. Project Description
4.2        To achieve the above objectives, the Project would include the
following components:
(a)  Line of Credit for Equipment and Working Capital.   This
would be the project's largest component, estimated at US$40 million and
accounting for about 62Z of the Bank loan.   It would provide long-term
financing to viable industrial enterprises, covering plant improvements or
construction and acquisition of equipment as well as the working capital
requirements associated with investment in plant and equipment. Incremen-
tal marketing and worker training and relocation expenses may also be
financed.
(b)   Lease Financing.   As medium-term financial instruments,
leasing contracts can be part of a financing package offered to industrial
enterprises.   The project would provide an estimated $15 million (about
23? of the loan) to finance PFIs for the purchase of equipment which they
would lease to subborrowers.
(c)  Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments.   A pilot component,
estimated at US$10 million (some 15? of the loan amount) would provide
financing for equity and quasi-equity investments by the PFIs against
their financing subborrowers' purchase of equipment, goods, services and
works.  Such investments would include common or preferred stock, conver-
tible debentures or subordinated debt, which could be used either alone or
packaged in combination with debt.   Through this pilot component,  the
project would be able to offer comprehensive financing packages designed
to meet the long-term needs of companies that are operationally healthy
but need additional capital for expansion.  The equity component is also
designed to assist enterprises which, as SMEs, formerly benefitted from



- Z7 -
the IGLF loan program but which have since graduated from the program and
are now poised for growth.
(d)   Studies, Training and Technical Assistance (TA).   This
component would be financed through a US$3.5 million grant from the Japan
Grant Facility.   It would complement the provision of finance through
improvements  in the technical capabilities of DBP and DTI to conduct
subsectoral studies which would (i) provide subsector data, analyses, and
strategies that would help financial institutions assess individual projects,
and (ii) develop proposals for subsectoral restructuring, including measures
to improve the policy and institutional framework for the selected
subsectors. The first set of studies would cover the following subsectorss
cement; pulp and paper; inter-island shipping and textiles. These subsectors
were selected because they need substantial restructuring, operate under
regulatory policies requiring major improvement and, under present
circumstances, are unable to obtain financing from the banking system. These
studies, under terms of reference finalized with the Bank's concurrence, have
already started. Following their completion, it is envisaged that studies
covering chemical industries, metal working/engineering and agro-industri-
es/food processing would be undertaken. The final version of the studies
would be published to ensure a wide dissemination of the information
collected and analyzed by the consultants. Bank supervision missions will
review the findings of these studies and discuss their implementation.
Consultant services as well as training and technical assistance requirements
identified by the studies would be financed through this component. All the
studies are expected to be completed by October 1990.
4.3        The allocation of the Bank loan among the various components
(equipment financing, leasing and equity investments) are indicative
estimates based on expected use.  During project implementation, the Bank
loan funds would be allocated among the various financing instruments
depending on actual demand. The project would cater to medium and large
industrial enterprises that, by virtue of their size, would not normally be
eligible for financing under the Bank-financed Fourth Small and Medium
Industries Development Project (SMI IV; Loan No. 3038-PH, 1989). The minimum
size for assets of eligible firms would be P 20 million (before the financing
provided under the project). The line of credit provided under the Project
would not be subsector-specific.
C. Loan Amount
4.4        The proposed loan of US$65 million equivalent would be made to
DBP at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and would have a term of
20 years including 5 years of grace.   The Government of the Philippines
would guarantee the Bank loan to DBP.  It is expected that the Bank loan
will be fully committed within two years after effectiveness.
4.5        The proposed Bank loan would cover 572 of a total financing
package of US$114.5 million. The balance would be provided by the project
sponsors, PFIs and the Japan Grant Facility as shown in Table 4.1.



- 28 -
Table 4.1 PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs
Local    Foreign    Total
----- (US$ million)-----
Credit Component                           45.0        65.0    110.0
Studies, Training and TA                    1.0         3.5       4.5
Total                                      46.0        68.5    114.5
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
------ (US$ million)-----
Subborrowers                               30.0           -      30.0
PFIs                                       15.0           -      15.0
DBP/DTI (Technical Assistance                1.0          -       1.0
Beneficiaries)
Japan Grant Facility                           -        3.5       3.5
IBRD                                           -       65.0     65.0
Total                                      46.0        68.5    114.5
D. Project Implementation
4.6        DBP, as a wholesale bank, would channel project funds to the
PFIs which in turn would finance their clients' long-term plant, equipment
and working capital needs, make equity or quasi-equity investments and/or
write equipment lease contracts.   The transfer of the APEX Development
Finance Unit from the Central Bank to DBP would help DBP perform this
wholesaling function.   The PFIs would be duly accredited institutions.
The financial intermediaries already accredited under the first Central
Bank-Apex Program and which have remained sound and in good financial
standing, based on monitoring reports of the CB-Apex Unit, would maintain
their status as PFIs,  at their option.   Other financial  institutions
interested in participating would be accredited by DBP using criteria
which include: (a) a track record of profitable operations and sound
capitalization; (b) an ability to maintain a sound and healthy portfolio
as demonstrated by the PFI's level of arrearages; (c) a qualified manage-
ment team of good reputation; (d) adequacy of trained staff, established
systems and procedures to be an efficient and reliable surveyor of retail
credits and (e) project analysis capability and experience in corporate
finance.   Failure to continue to live up to these criteria would dis-
qualify PFIs from further participation in the project. The accreditation
of PFIs will be regularly reviewed during Bank supervision.   In order to
ensure that the project implementation starts on a sound footing, signing
of subsidiary loan agreements between DBP and at least two PFIs which have
met the accreditation criteria and are acceptable to the Bank is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.7        The Operating Policy Guidelines  (OPG) of the Apex Unit,  ap-
propriately amended, will be adopted by DBP to serve as the document
spelling out the policies and procedures that will apply to its wholesale



- 29 -
role under the Project.  The revised OPG spells out, among other things,
the followings   accreditation criteria for PFIs (para 4.6); exclusion of
DEP as a retailer of funds under the proposed project (para 4.10); sub-
project eligibility criteria and minimum and maximum subloan sizes (para
4.15); relending terms, conditions and rates to the PFIs (paras. 4.13,
4.18 to 4.19); on-lending terms, conditions and interest rates to sub-
borrowers (paras. 4.14, 4.16); minimum loan participation by PFIs and
minimum equity contribution by sub-borrowers (para. 4.15); conformance
with environmental laws (para. 4.21). During negotiations, agreement was
reached with DBP on the inclusion of the above components in the OPG.
Adherence to the OPG is a covenant of the loan.   Adoption of the OPG,
satisfacto~.y to the Bank and putting it into effect, by DBP's Board is  a
condition of effectiveness.
4.8        The PFIs, which would bear the subloan credit risk, would be
responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision.   DBP would review
the documentation submitted by the PFIs for subproject approval to deter-
mine whether the eligibility criteria for subborrowers and subprojects
have been met. Neither the World Bank nor DBP would duplicate the credit
or project analysis of the PFIs and pass upon individual subloan applica-
tions except for very large projects involving subloan amounts beyond the
free limit of US$4 million (para. 4.23).
4.9        The institutional structure for carrying out the subsectoral
studies is such as to ensure a policy focus and representation of private
sector views in the output. An Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee (IACC)
would set the broad policy parameters for and supervise the studies.
Established in January 1989, it has the following permanent members: (a)
the Secretary of Trade and Industry,  or his representative,  acting as
chairman; (b) a representative of the National Economic and Development
Authority;  (c) a DOF representative;  (d) a DBP representative; and (e) a
representative of the Bankers Association of the Philippines.   The addi-
tional members of the Policy Committee would include a representative of
the industry group which is the subject of the study and, if applicable,
the representative of the concerned government regulatory agency.   To
handle the logistics and ensure the execution of the studies and the
required training and technical assistance, DBP acts as the Secretariat to
the Committee. For that purpose, it has set up an Industrial Restructur-
ing Unit which is intended to grow into a source of technical expertise on
restructuring which DBP's lending department as well as the PFIs would
draw upon. Working Groups reporting to the Policy Committee and consist-
ing of DBP and DTI staff and private sector industry and banking represen-
tatives would be counterparts to the consultants carrying out the studies.
The IACC will play no role in DBP's lending decisions.
E. Relending Mechanism, Terms and Conditions
4.10       Relending Mechanism.   Under contractual arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank, DBP would pass on the proceeds of the loan to the PFIs
which would onlend the funds to eligible industrial enterprises.   During
negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP that it will not lend the
I



- 30 -
project funds directly to eligible enterprises, in line with its wholesale
banking   function.  It would  establish a separate project  account  to
channel project funds to the PFIs and to accumulate subloan repayments
until they become due for repayment under the Bank loan.  The funds thus
accumulated would be used for further onlending for similar purposes and
on similar conditions.
4.11       Foreign Exchange Risk.  The World Bank would lend to DBP at its
standard variable rate.  The Government would assume the foreign exchange
(FX) risk for a market-based variable fee payable by DBP.
(a)   In the case of variable rate subloans, this FX fee would be set
equal to the difference between the World Bank lending rate and the
weighted average interest rate on peso time deposits of six months or less
minus an administrative fee of 0.752 for DBP.   The FX fee would be ad-
justed every six months in line with the movements in the two rates and
shall be paid to the Bureau of Treasury.
(b)   In the case of fixed rate subloans, the FX fee shall be com-
puted as follows:
FX    = WAIR2 minus (WB + 2.00   + Gross Receipts Tax)
Wheres WAIR2 is the weighted average interest rate on two-year time
deposits at the start of each amortization period.
WB is the rate of interest payable by DBP to the World Bank
for the applicable amortization period.
4.12       Since domestic interest rates in the Philippines are market-
determined and the capital account is essentially open, this market-based
variable formula provides a reasonable estimate of FX risk.   Based on
World Bank projections of foreign inflation (average GNP deflator for the
G-V countries of 5.1Z for 1989-94) and Philippines inflation (average of
8.3? for the same period), the currently expected average inflation
differential would amount to 3.22. Based on prevailing interest rates on
deposits of six months or less (12Z), the variable rate formula would
yield a FX risk fee of around 3.6Z for the next six-months period. During
negotiations, an understanding with the Government and DBP was reached on
the above arrangement for FX risk.
4.13       Relending Rate of DBP to PFIs.   DBP would relend the project
funds in Pesos to the PFIs at market rates of interest.   In line with
market conditions, it is anticipated that DBP would offer alternative
variable and fixed rate options to the PFIs.   It is expected that the
relending rate would approximate the cost to the PFIs of borrowing funds
of a similar maturity in the market.   Based on prevailing market condi-
tions, DBP's relending rate would probably be in the 13? - 14X range,
allowing for an adequate intermediation margin. During negotiations
agreement was reached with DBP that it will maintain relending rates which
are market-based and provide it with adequate spreads over its costs.



- 31 -
4.14       On-lending Rate of PFIs to Subborrovers.   PFIs will also be
free to charge market rates of interest, allowing them flexibility in
assessing risks and differences in creditworthiness, or covering admin-
istrative costs associated with individual clients or loans. This mecha-
nism is also expected to increase competition among the PFIs which would
bear the full credit risk of each subloan made.   Under current market
conditions, the on-lending rate to subborrowers would be around 18Z - 192.
4.15       Eligible Subprojects.  The project would finance technically,
financially,  and  economically  sound  investment  subprojects  of  viable
industrial enterprises.  The minimum size for assets of eligible  firms
would be P ZO million (before the financing provided under the project)
and the minimum subloan size would be US$250,000.   The maximum subloan
amount to be lent to any individual company by a PFI would not exceed US$6
million equivalent; in the case of loan syndications, the maximum subloan
would be US$8 million equivalent.  For each subproject, the PFIs would be
requilred to finance at least 10% of the financing package from their own
funds; this may include the working capital loans they normally extend.
The minimum equity contribution by the subborrower would be 202 of total
project cost. Subprojects would have to yield a financial rate of return
of not less than 152 in real terms. Equity investments would be expected
to yield an after-tax return on equity of at least 18Z in real terms.
Subprojects that are in subsectors that receive a high level of protection
through quantita_ive  restrictions would not be eligible  for financing
under the Project; an understanding with DBP on a list of these ineligible
subsectors, to be revised semi-annually, was recorded in the Minutes of
Negotiations.
4.16       Maturities and Grace Periods.   The maturity of equipment and
working capital subloans would vary from 3 to 13 years and 3 to 7 years,
respectively.    Equity and quasi-equity  investments  financed under the
project would have maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years and would in no
case exceed the period of the equity or quasi-equity participation.   The
financing of new equipment for leasing will be for lease contracts that
have a maturity of 3 to 13 years. The maximum grace period would be 3
years for equipment and working capital subloans.   To take into account
the fact that equity and quasi-equity investments may not produce returns
in the first 4 to 5 years of the investments, loans to finance them will
have a grace period of up to 5 years. Lease financing will have no grace
period.
4.17       Quasi-Equity Investments.  Quasi-equity investments are attrac-
tive because they offer to both investors and investees a high level of
flexibility with respect to liquidity of the investment, risk distribu-
tion,  and profit  sharing.   Some quasi-equity investments  that may be
financed are as follows:
.
(a) Conditional  Loans.    These  could be a useful  financing
instrument for risk sharing between the subborrower and the PFI.   They
offer a high degree of flexibility in their design: conditional payments
of the subborrower could refer to the interest payments, the principal or
both; and the yield of the loan could be based on the interest rate, a
revenue sharing scheme or a profit sharing scheme. The pricing of condi-



- 32 -
tional loans would, of course, be commensurate with the increased risk
associated with them.
(b)  Convertible Loans.   These  offer,  commensurate with  the
increased level of risk, flexibility an(' the prospect of better returns
than traditional loans or equity investments.
(c) Subordinated Debt.   Compensated through a higher interest
rate, this could be of interest if the borrowing company does not have
sufficient collateral to back up its overall funding requirements.
4.18       Special Conditions for the Equity Component.   To be eligible
for financing, equity and quasi-equity investments would have to be used
for purposes similar to term credit, i.e. plant improvement or construc-
tion acquisition of equipment, and permanent working capital requirements.
Project funds, however, cannot be used for the refinancing of existing
debt.   In line with current Central Bank regulations, equity investments
by the PFIs to be financed with loan funds would be restricted to a
maximum of 25Z of the share capital of any company. Furthermore, each PFI
shall limit its total equity investments in a single enterprise to no more
than 15Z of its own total equity. These restrictions would help keep the
risks within reasonable limits.  The risk of equity investments would be
borne by the PFIs, as DBP would merely finance the equity holdings accord-
ing to agreed guidelines.
4.19       Relending  terms  and conditions  for equity  and  quasi-equity
financing would be as follows:
(a) The obligation of the PFIs to DBP would take the form of a
loan.   Interest rates that PFIs would pay DBP for funds to be used for
equity or quasi-equity investments would be the same as those charged to
them for equipment and working capital lending; and
(b) Investment terms and conditions for equity and quasi-equi-
ty instruments would be negotiated on a case-by-case basis between the
investor (PFI) and the investee (enterprise). In the case of quasi-equity
instruments, the agreement between the investor and the investee could
include a broad variety of terms and conditions, including a participation
in sales or profits, the issue of warrants, or interest rates above those
specified for subloans to allow for the increased risk that investors
would face.
4.20       Eligible Expenditures. The proceeds of the loan would be used
to finance 10OZ of the foreign currency cost of directly imported goods
and services, and 602 of local expenditures (corresponding to the es-
timated average foreign exchange content of these items). Project related
expenditures made within 90 days of receipt of subloans by DBP would be
eligible for financing. In addition to financing investments in plant and
equipment, the Bank may consider financing the following expenditures:
(a)  Marketing and Distribution.  Since marketing expenses represent a
necessary investment, they would be eligible for financing under the loan.



- 33 -
These would include, for example, (i) participation in trade fairs and
exhibitions in prospective markets; (ii) start-up and initial financing of
a sales force; (iii) financing of advertising and promotion campaigns in
foreign markets; and (iv) investments in the domestic distribution system.
To be eligible, marketing expenses would have to be incremental: i.e. they
would have to go beyond the current marketing expenses of a subborrower.
(b)   Worker Retraining and Relocation.   A shift in market focus or
changes in the organization of the production process are likely to affect
the size and the composition of the work force. Retraining and relocation
will be important not only to protect jobs but also to employ new machi-
nery or take advantage of new technologies.   Therefore, retraining and
relocation expenditures may be considered as eligible expenditures and
could be included in the subloan to a company.
4.21       Environmental Considerations.   To sensitize the PFIs to the
risks  associated with  ignoring  environmental  concerns,  the  Operating
Policy Guidelines would include a provision for the PFIs to finance sub-
projects that are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations of
the Philippines governing environmental protection.
4.22       The Philippines has stringent environmental regulations,  but
the ability of existing industrial plants to comply with them as well as
the Government's monitoring and enforcement capacity are limited. During
preparation of the proposed Project, it was agreed with the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources, the Environmental Management Bureau,
DTI and DBP that industrial pollution issues should be addressed in a
comprehensive manner which would lead to the setting of realistic goals
for pollution control and the development of a sound strategy for achiev-
ing those goals.   This would involve  (a) reviewing the relevance and
applicability of existing environmental laws and regulations, as many of
them appear to have been adopted, with little or no modification, from
industrialized countries; (b) formulating policies and incentives to
encourage and ensure compliance by enterprises and (c) strengthening the
institutional framework for more effective monitoring and enforcement as
well as for providing technical assistance to industry on pollution
control.   The Bank has offered to support this comprehensive approach
through a study of the policy, regulatory and institutional framework,
whose findings could help develop an environmental support and industrial
pollution abatement project.   The subsector studies under the proposed
Project will provide an important input to this comprehensive study. They
will include an assessment of environmental issues in each subsector and
will propose measures to (a) provide economic and financial incentives and
technical assistance for installation and proper operation of clean and
efficient technologies and appropriate pollution control equipmer.t;
(b) strengthen   monitoring   of   plant   effluents;   and   (c)   improve
institutional arrangements for environmental monitoring and pollution
control.
4.23       Free Limit and Subproject Documentation Requirements. The free
limit would be set at US$4 million.  The proposed free limit is based on
the experience of PFIs in the evaluation of subloans under the Apex



. 34 -
project. In addition, the proposed free limit would allow the Bank to
focus subloan evaluation efforts on larger and more complex projects. If
the Bank share in the subloan made by the PFI is below the free limit, the
Bank would not carry out an individual subproject review, but would make
periodic sample analyses during supervision missions. DBP would submit to
the Bank the original subloan application (submitted by the subborrower to
the PFI), the PFI's credit evaluation and the subloan agreement between
the subborrower and the PFI. DBP would, then, issue authorization to
withdraw funds for approved subprojects.   If the Bank share in a subloan
is above the free limit of US$4 million, DBP and the Bank would review the
basis used by the PFI in approving the subproject before granting ap-
proval.   The subproject documentation submitted to the Bank would then
have to include, in addition to the items mentioned above, a separate
feasibility study of the investment project and an extensive analysis of
the operational and financial situation of the company.
4.24       To provide  for  sufficient  flexibility and  to speed up  the
subloan approval process, DBP would use an immediate disbursement system
whereby (a) the PFIs would be eligible for immediate reimbursement of
their disbursements to subborrowers under the project and (b) DBP can
disburse to suppliers or contractors at the request of the PFIs. If a
subloan above the free limit is not subsequently approved by the Bank, the
PFI would reimburse DBP any funds extended prior to the Bank decision. No
funds shall be directly transferred to the subborrower or the PFI except
for reimbursement of actual payments made.
F. Disbursements
4.25       The Bank would disburse against 100X of the loans made by DBP
to the PFIs up to the financing share made up by the  eligible expendi-
tures (para. 4.20) and requested for the respective subproject. A Special
Account (revolving fund) of US$4 million would be established in DBP to
finance the Bank's share of subloans, thus helping to expedite project
execution.  Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures, and DBP would ensure that all supporting
documentation is being adequately maintained and th&. it would be avail-
able for review upon the Bank's request.  DBP would submit to the Bank a
monthly statement of the transactions of the Special Account. The loan is
expected  to be disbursed  in about  five years,  based on the  standard
disbursement profile for industrial finance projects.
4.26       Disbursement of funds from the Japanese Grant Facility,  for
which DBP is the executing agency, will be administered by the Bank. For
services, the Bank will disburse 100? of expenditures; for equipment and
materials, the Bank will disburse 100? of foreign expenditures for im-
ported items and 10OZ of local ex-factory costs, and 80Z of local expendi-
tures for equipment and supplies procured locally.   Disbursement for all
contracts below US$100,000 equivalent will be made on the basis of state-
ments  of expenditure.   A  Special Account of US$400,000  equivalent  is
proposed to be established in DBP to facilitate disbursement.   For all
sub-components using Statements of Expenditures, adequate records of



- 35 -
documentation will be maintained by DBP and will be made available to the
Bank upon request.
G. Procurement
4.27       Procurement procedures for goods, works and services financed
with loan funds would comply with those customary for industrial develop-
ment finance operations. DBP and the PFI will satisfy themselves that the
goods, works and services to be purchased are for the investment sub-
projects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that the subborrowers have
canvassed the main sources of supply and purchased from the most ad-
vantageous  source.   During negotiations,  it was agreed that contracts
above US$ 5 million equivalent will be procured by International Competi-
tive Bidding.
4.28       Procurement  of consultants  for the TA component will be  in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
H. Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing
4.29       A  Supervision Plan  is presented in Annex 4.01.   DBP would
prepare semi-annual progress  reports on project implementation.   These
reports would include an assessment of progress in implementing both the
financing and technical assistance components.  The Bank's monitoring will
be at two levels:   (1) DBP's implementation of the Project and (2) the
institutional development of DBP.  The monitoring of DBP's Project imple-
mentation will focus on (a) the accreditation of PFIs by DBP; (b) adhe-
rence to the OPG and (c) the PFIs' repayment of loans to DBP. The Bank's
supervision of DBP's institutional development would involve concentrating
on the general performance of DBP in accordance with the agreed Institu-
tional Development Plan.  This would mean assessing the progress made in
the strategic transformation of DBP against performance criteria which
include: (a) adherence to its revised Policy Statement; (b) increase in
the proportion of wholesale lending in its total outstanding portfolio in
line with DBP's Institutional Development Plan; (c) preparation of a
Resource Mobilization Plan acceptable to the Bank and (d) reduction of its
staff by 250 persons by July 1990.   Bank supervision of DBP for this
project will be in conjunction with supervision of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan.   DBP will be responsible for preparing Part II of the
Project Completion Report.   During negotiations,  these arrangements for
Bank supervision of DBP were confirmed.
4.30       The accounts of DBP, including those kept for the purpose of
the project, the Special Account, and Statement3 of Expenditures, would be
audited annually by independent auditors  acceptable to the Bank.   The
audit reports, including an opinion regarding the supporting documentation
for disbursements based on Statements of Expenditures, would be submitted
within six months after the end of DBP's fiscal year. During negotiations
agreement was reached with DBP on these reporting and audit arrangements.



- 36 -
I. Justification and Risks
4.31       The project justification is based on the importance of provid-
ing timely support and assistance to industrial development in the Philip-
pines. Based on the experience of the Apex loan, it is expected that the
proposed Bank loan would finance about 45 subprojects with an average
credit financing package (mix of equipment and working capital subloans,
lease financing and equity and quasi-equity investments) of around US$1.5
million.   These subprojects would generate incremental direct employment
of about 5,300. The project will also enable DBP to develop the institu-
tional capabilities to embark on the wholesale banking role envisaged for
it by the Financial Sector Reform Program supported by the Bank.  More-
over, the proposed project would strengthen the capacity of a wider number
of financial institutions to provide development-oriented term lending.
The TA for industrial restructuring studies would assist the Government in
charting the reforms that may be necessary for the efficient and competi-
tive development of enterprises in specific subsectors. The studies would
provide the analytical basis for developing subsectoral strategies in the
context of which subsectoral restructuring programs can be formulated,
possibly to be financed by an industrial restructuring operation later.
4.32       The major risk is that investment demand may not materialize as
projected. Commitments could slow down because of slower than expected
economic growth or reluctance by financial intermediaries in accepting new
financial instruments that will be introduced under the proposed project.
Leasing is a relatively new industry in the Philippines.   Moreover, the
local market for equity is small and owners of privately held companies
may remain reluctant to allow PFIs to hold shares in their companies, even
for a limited period. To deal with these uncertainties, the loan size has
been set in light of conservative demand projections, and the amounts
allocated for lease contracts, equity and quasi-equity instruments are
relatively small.   If this allocation does not tally with actual demand
for leasing and equity investments, the funds would be reallocated for
traditional credit operations.
V. AGREEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and Understandings
5.1        During negotiations,  agreements  regarding the following were
reached with DBP:
(a)   implementation of DBP's Institutional Development Plan
(para. 3.10)
(b)   execution of Project  in accordance with DBP's  Policy
Statement (para.3.24).
(c)   Operating Policy Guidelines for the Project  (para 4.7)
which will include:
- accreditation criteria for PFIs (para. 4.6)



- 37 -
- exclusion of DBP as a retailer of funds under the
proposed Project (para. 4.10)
- subproject eligibility criteria and minimum and maximum
subloan sizes (para. 4.15)
- minimum loan participation by PFIs and minimum equity
contribution by subborrowers (para. 4.15)
- conformance with environmental laws (para. 4.21).
- free limit and subproject documentation requirements
(para.4.23)
(d) Relending terms, conditions and rates to the PFIs
(paras. 4.13, 4.18 to 4.19)
(e) Onlending terms, conditions and interest rates to
subborrowers (paras 4.14, 4.16 and 4.19)
(f) Reporting and auditing requirements (para.4.30)
5.2        During negotiations, understandings on the following were recorded
in the Minutes of Negotiations:
- mechanism for assumption of the foreign exchange risk by the
Government (para. 4.11 - 4.12);
- list of subsectors ineligible for Bank financing on account of
high quantitative restrictions (para. 4.15);
- Bank review of DBP's institution-wide training program (para.
3.16).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
5.3        Effectiveness of the proposed loan will be conditional on the
following additional events:
(a) signing of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, between DBP and at least two PFIs which have met the
accreditation criteria and are acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.6);
and
(b) adoption of and putting into effect the Operating Policy
Guidelines for the proposed Project by DBP's Board (para. 4.7).
C. Recommendation
5.4        With the foregoing agreements and understandings, the proposed
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$65 million to DBP. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace on repayment of
principal, and carry the standard variable interest rate. The loan would be
guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1.01
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Average Nominal Tariff Rates, 1982-88
Sector                      Weighted Average           Unweighted Average
1982    1986   1988a/       1982    1986    1988
Agriculture               18.4    11.2    12.6         30.5    29.1    27.1
Mining                    19.6    19.1    10.3         13.3    13.3    13.1
Manufacturing             21.6    22.7    22.2         31.8    28.3    28.3
Overall Average:          21.1    21.3    19.4         31.3    27.9    27.9
Consumer Goods            22.2     28.7   29.2         46.7    38.1    38.1
Intermediate Goods        22.6     21.3   20.5         27.6    25.2    25.2
Capital Goods             20.1     21.8   21.9         21.4    22.4    22.3
Overall Average:          21.6     22.7   22.2         31.8    28.6    28.5
Food, Beverage, Tobacco 19.3       27.2   30.4         38.6    35.4    35.9
Textiles                  34.0     33.8   30.6         53.8    40.4    40.1
Wood and Products         39.1     49.1   37.8         42.0    36.4    36.4
Paper and Printing        33.7     36.8   27.9         37.2    30.9    30.8
Chemicals, Petr, Coal   19.6       18.4   19.2         24.9    22.0    22.0
Non Metallic Mineral    25.6       22.9   25.4         37.3    33.7    33.4
Basic Metal Industry    17.0       14.3   13.8         14.6    15.1    15.6
Machinery Metal           21.6     22.4   22.6         24.7    25.1    24.9
Other Manufacturing       37.5     37.5   34.4         38.0    36.3    36.3
Overall Average:          21.8     22.9   22.4         32.3    28.7    28.7
a/  Using 1987 imports as weights.   The lower rates of weighted averages
in comparison to unweighted averages indicate the presence of some
very low tariffs on imports with large volumes.
Sourcet Tariff Commission.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1.02
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Performance of Manufacturing Corporations, 1979-87"/
1979  1980  1981  1982   1983  1984   1985   1986 1987
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-_---------
Net income  (P billion)    1.92  1.20  1.04   (0.11)  0.70  2.54   2.48  5.00  8.44
Net income/net worth (Z)   9.97  5.60  3.88   (0.39)  2.16  7.26   6.69  10.00  14.49
Total Liabilities/Net Worth 2.17  2.51  2.17   2.16  2.43  2.82   2.66  2.19  1.81
Total Long-Term
Liabilities/Net Worth       n.a   n.a   n.a    n.a   n.a   n.a   0.99  0.83  0.45
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------
a/ Manufacturing Segment Top 1000 Corporations only.
Sources: Business Day, 1,000 Top Corporations in the Philippines (various editions);
Central Bank of Philippines, 1985 Annual Report; Philippines Business Profiles
and Perspectives, Inc./Center for Research and Comnunication, Philippines
Business Perspectives (1987 and 1988 editions).



- 40 -
ANNEX 1.03
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Subsectoral Issues
The Cement Subsector
1.         Basic data on the cement industry are presented in Table 1
(page 2 of this Annex).  Largely privately owned, the cement industry is
basically inward oriented.   A high  level of protection  (quantitative
restrictions, high tariffs) and a tightly regulated domestic distribution
system contributed to a reasonable performance, in spite of price control,
as long as domestic demand was growing. With the economic collapse in the
early eightiea, performance rapidly deteriorated.   In the mid-eighties,
capacity utilization dropped to an average of around 552, with four of the
existing 18 plants being moth-balled.  Apart from a conversion scheme to
substitute coal for oil in this energy-intensive industry, very little
investment has taken place in the subsector during the past ten years.
By international standards, many of the plants lack economies of scale,
are over-manned, and are technologically obsolete (more than half of the
plants use the energy-intensive wet or semi-dry process). They have
therefore not remained competitive.   Moreover, several enterprises which
incurred foreign debt in the last decade face financial distress as a
result of the major Peso devaluations of the mid-eighties. No fundamental
rehabilitation of existing capacity has taken place.
2.         Though price control and import restrictions have been lifted
in early 1989, the tightly controlled distribution system with its limited
number of licensed agents acts to continue to uphold de-facto import
control and a price ceiling. As a result of the construction boom start-
ing in 1986, two moth-balled plants have been brought back into produc-
tion; capacity utilization is currently close to 90Z. There are shortages
of cement in some parts of the country. Domestic production has therefore
been complemented by imports. The result is a substantial upward pressure
on cement prices.  Given the strategic importance of cement in construc-
tion and fixed investment, cement shortages and excessive growth of cement
prices could choke off investment demand, spur inflation and increase the
cost of private and public investments.
3.         The data on the largest companies indicate that after a period
of losses and negative returns (1982-86), the industry witnessed a tur-
naround in 1987 when net income became positive.  To sustain and improve
upon the recent performance will necessitate addressing the physical,
financial, and policy constraints facing the industry. This will require
examination of the following issues:   (i) the impact of trade policy,
notably of QRs, on the industry structure and recommendations for improve-
ments in policy to foster competitiveness; (ii) the role of regulatory



Annex 1.03
Page 2 of 8
- 41 -
Table 1: Key Statistics for the Cement Industry, 1979-1988
1979     1980     1981     1982     1983      1984     1985     1966      1967    1988p
. .............. ............................. __.............. .............................._.............
A. PRODUCTION, TRADE & CONSUMPTION
1. Production (000 NT) 3939.8  4516.2  3996.3  4035.0  4542.0  3637.4  3078.4   3282.6  3974.3  4300.0
2. Imports    (000 NT)     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     31.5    350.0
3. Exports    (000 MT)  404.7    869.7   482.9    559.8    154.3   297.6    599.6    154.7    '0.0             0.0
4. Apparent
Consumption(000 NT) 3535.1   3646.5  3513.4  3475.2  4387.7  3339.8  2478.8  3127.9   4005.8  4650.0
5. PerCapita Cons.(kg)    76.4      75.8     71.0     68.5     84.4     62.8      45.6     56.2     70.3      79.8
6. Iqorts/Cons.   (X)      0.02      0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02      0.02     0.02     0.02     0.86      7.52
7. Exports/Prodctn.(X)    10.32    19.3X    12.1X    13.92      3.42     8.22    19.52      4.7X     0.0X      0.0X
B. DATA ON THE LARGEST CEMENT CORPORATIONS OF THE PHILIPPINES a/
#of Cement Corporatns.      12        12       15       15       14        14       10       10       10      N.A.
Gross Sales(P Million) 1,209.4  1,660.6  2,424.8  2,680.8  2,532.0  2,148.3  2,401.2  2,378.7  2,931.0       N.A.
Net Income (P Million)    50.3     35.7      71.3    (65.3)  (116.1)  (264.9)  (204.5)  (257.3)    76.5    -N.A.
Tot.Assets (P Million) 1,822.6  2,118.8  3,905.3  4,487.6  4,925.6  6,025.3  5,553.9  6,441.4  6,606.1        N.A.
Capital(pd)(P Million)   260.7    314.8   415.9   696.8   696.0   809.5    603.2    607.0    594.8            N.A.
Return on G. Sales (X)     4.2       2.1      2.9     (2.4)    (4.6)   (12.3)    (8.5)   (10.8)      2.6      N.A.
Return on Assets   ()      2.8       1.7      1.8     (1.5)    (2.4)    (4.4)    (3.7)    (4.0)      1.2      N.A.
Return on Capital  (2)    19.3      11.3     17.1     (9.4)   (16.7)   (32.7)   (33.9)   (42.4)    12.9       N.A.
Pd.Up Capit./Assets(C)    14.3      14.9     10.6     15.5     14.1      13.4     10.9      9.4      9.0      N.A.
Total Manufacturing Sector (Top 1000 Corporations):
Gross Sales(P Billion)    64.9     81.0      94.6    105.2    127.6    176.4    174.6    185.3    189.1       N.A.
Net Income (P Billion)     1.9       1.2      1.0     (0.1)     0.7      2.5       2.5      5.0      8.4      N.A.
Tot.Assets (P Billion)    61.0      75.2     84.9     89.5    111.6    133.6    135.7    159.4    163.6       N.A.
Equity     (P Billion)    19.3      21.4     26.8     28.7     32.5     35.1      37.1     50.0     58.2      N.A.
Ratios: Cement Sector / Total Manufacturing Sector (Top 1000 Corporations) (Percent)
G. Sates Ratio     (2)     1.9       2.1      2.6      2.5      2.0       1.2      1.4      1.3      1.5      N.A.
N. Income Ratio    (X)     2.6      3.0       6.9     57.8   (16.6)   (10.5)    (8.2)    (5.1)       0.9      N.A.
Total Asset Ratio  ()      3.0       2.8      4.6      5.0      4.4      4.5       4.1      4.0      4.0      N.A.
Equity Ratio       (X)     1.4       1.5      1.6      2.4      2.1      2.3       1.6      1.2      1.0      N.A.
a/  Companies in the Philippines, classified as among the top 1000 corporations by gross sales.              -
p/ Preliminary
Sources: (1) Philcemcor (Cement Corporation of the Philippines)
(2) Miscellaneous Industry Publications
(3)"1000 Top Corporations in the Philippines"
.
AS21E, 89/05/23
File PHILCEM.tkl
1



- 42 -
ANNEX 1.03
Page 3 of 8
policy, in particular policies governing distribution anc. pricing, in
shaping the industry, and proposed improvements to achieve economies of
scale in plant facilities and distribution systems; (iii) international
competitiveness in the cost structure of Filipino plants, actually, and
potentially after rehabilitation, and proposals for physical restruc-
turing; (iv) financial distress and options for financial restructuring;
and (v) investments necessary to increase the efficiency of distribution
facilities in the Philippines.
The Pulp and Paper Subsector
4.         Data on the pulp and paper subsector are presented in Table 2
(pages 4-5 of this Annex). Developed behind a high and effective curtain
of protection, the industry, which consists of 29 mills, was essentially
established during the fifties and sixties, except for some pulping
facilities installed in the seventies. Most of the plants lack economies
of scale, have obsolete equipment and are over-manned. Given the outdated
machinery, the subsector finds difficulty in securing replacement parts
and, as a consequence, suffers from lengthy machine downtime.   No major
investments were made in the industry during the past 10 years.  Industry
performance during the first half of the eighties has been poor, with
capacity  utilization declining to about 40Z, in line with the economic
slump. The economic recovery from 1986 has seen resurgence of demand but
capacity  utilization  is  still  only  slightly  above  70Z.   But  despite
optimistic forecasts suggesting continuously growing demand, only small
investments are taking place in the sector because of uncertainties
regarding needed policy reforms and the hesitancy of the banks to lend to
the industry.
5.         Distorted policies and regulations in the forestry sector and
uncertainties related to land reform contribute to a raw material cost to
the industry which compares unfavorably with that of Brazil, Indonesia and
other competitors.   Long fiber pulp has to be imported.   However,  the
volume of short fiber pulp and waste paper that is currently imported
could be furnished locally at competitive prices if appropriate measures
(tree farming, industrial tree plantations) were adopted to a greater
extent.   Improved incentives for and promotion of industrial waste paper
collection, classification and processing could contribute to reducing the
cost of waste paper by reducing expensive imports.
6.         On the output side, high protection (tariffs and QRs) made the
industry complacent, with little concern for  competitiveness.   At end-
1987, QRs were removed on most paper products except newsprint and ciga-
rette paper.   Nevertheless, effective tariff protection remains at about
1002, allowing the industry to survive with its present structure at the
expense of the consumer.   Through appropriate restructuring (closing of
inefficient plants, cost-cutting measures and modernization investments),
the industry should be able to compete with imports at effective



- 43 _Annex  1.03
Page 4 of 8
Table 2: Key Statistics for the Pulp & Paper industry, 1979-1988
1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1965     1986      1987      1988
...... ... .............    ......................................................................................................... .... ................................
A. PRODUCTION, TRADE & CONSUMPTION   a/
UUvU2U  =. .UUU.=....;       SWU=
1. Production (000 NT)
Newsprint                 N.A.     80.0      81.9     63.1      71.0      70.4      55.8     82.3      83.6      87.0
Printg. & Writing         N.A.     58.0      40.4     38.0      39.1      34.0     30.6      50.6      48.9      55.0
Industr. & Other         N.A.      81.1    147.5    126.3    145.0        90.4     56.6      83.7    104.4    112.0
Household Tissue         N.A.      15.9      20.4      14.5     16.7      19.9      12.1     13.0      14.0      15.0
.....    --------  --- --    --- --   ..........  .......  -------. ... -------  -------. ... -------....... ...
Total production        350.0    235.0    290.2    241.9    271.8    214.7    155.1    229.6    250.9    269.0
2. Imports      (000 NT)
Newsprint                N.A.      20.0       4.8       2.7      1.2       2.6       0.6      0.9       0.2       3.0
Printg. & Writing        N.A.      12.0       9.1      19.3     19.4      10.4       8.0     11.0      15.4      16.0
Industr. & Other         N.A.      80.0      95.7    109.2    105.0    115.3    128.4    151.5    227.8    235.0
Household Tissue         N.A.       1.0       2.0       1.0      1.1       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0
-------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -------.... -------   - ........  .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  ....... ...
Total Imports           115.4    113.0    111.6    132.2    126.7    129.3    138.0    164.4    244.4    255.0
3. Exports      (000 MT)
Newsprint                N.A.       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Printg. & Writing        N.A.       0.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Industr. & Other         N.A.       8.8       1.3      9.0       1.2       8.0      1.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Household Tissue         N.A.       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
-------~~~~~~~~... -------.... -------    -------... -------    ------  ------ -----  .......... .............
Total Exports             2.7       9.0       1.3      9.0       1.2       8.0       1.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
4. Apparent Consumption (000 MT)
Newsprint                N.A.    100.0       86.7     65.8      72.2      73.0     56.4      83.2      83.8      90.0
Printg. & Writing        N.A.      69.8      49.5     57.3      58.5      44.s     38.6      61.6      64.3      71.0
Industr. & Other         N.A.    152.3    241.9    226.5    248.8    197.7    184.0    235.2    332.2    347.0
Household Tissue         N.A.      16.9      22.4     15.5      17.8      20.9      13.1     14.0      15.0      16.0
.-   -   -----     -----   ...-----    ... ....    .......  ..........  -------    -------... -------
Total Consumption       462.7    339.0    400.5    365.1    397.3    336.0    292.1    394.0    495.3    524.0
5. PerCapita Cons. (kg)    10.0         7.0      8.1       7.2      7.6       6.3       5.4      7.1       8.7       9.0
6. Imports/Cons.    (2)    24.9       33.3      27.9      36.2     31.9      38.5      47.2     41.7      49.3      48.7
7. Exports/Productn.(C)       0.8      3.8       0.4       3.7      0.4       3.7       0.6       0.0      0.0       0.0
B. EMPLOYMENT
=.==.====== == = 
Pulp & Paper   (000)    N.A.       15.0      15.0      18.0     17.0      17.0      16.0     16.0      17.0      18.0
Tot.Manuf.Empl.(000)    N.A.   1850.0   1780.0   1888.0   1822.0   1847.0   1926.0   1763.0   2054.0   2198.0
Putp&Paper/Total (2)    N.A.        0.8x      0.8x      1.0x     0.92      0.9x      0.82     0.92      0.82      0.82
a/ Date up to 1984: first source, date from 1985: second and third source                             (Table Continued
On Next Page)



- 44 -                                    Annex  1.03
Page 5 of 8
Table 2 (Contd.): Key Statistics for the Pulp & Paper Industry, 1979-1988
~~~... ... .... .... ..
1979     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986      1987     1988
. ................. ........................... ... .... .... ...... ......... .................. ... ..... ...... ....
C. DATA ON THE LARGEST PULP AND PAPER CORPORATIONS OF THE PHILIPPINES b/
# of Pulp&Paper Corpns.       14       15       17       18        18       18       18        19       19     N.A.
Gross Sales (P Million)  2406.5   2604.3   2680.7   2755.8   3577.8   5054.6   4519.7   5231.6   6033.7        N.A.
Net Income (P Million):
Picop Corporation c/       36.8   (148.6)  (275.4)  (308.2)  (209.7)  (276.6)  (562.4)  (509.0)  (125.5)    N.A.
Other Large Corporatns.    67.3      38.0     (5.1)   (13.5)    26.1   (480.5)    23.1    168.2    233.8
Total Net Income          104.1   (110.6)  (280.5)  (321.7)  (183.6)  (757.1)  (539.3)  (340.8)   108.3        N.A.
Total Assets(P Aillion)  3306.3   4061.5   5047.9   4775.4  5602.0   7172.9  8037.1   8308.0   8648.8          N.A.
Capital(pd) (P Nillion)   651.7    696.7   1021.6   1175.4   1256.2   1284.1   1330.0   1382.6   1435.0        N.A.
Return on Gr. Sales (%)     4.3      (4.2)   (10.5)   (11.7)    (5.1)   (15.0)   (11.9)    (6.5)       1.8     N.A.
Return on Assets    (2)     3.1      (2.7)    (5.6)    (6.7)    (3.3)   (10.6)    (6.7)    (4.1)       1.3     N.A.
Return on Capital (t  )    16.0    (15.9)   (27.5)   (27.4)   (14.6)   (59.0)   (40.5)   (24.7)        7.5     N.A.
Pd.Up Capit./Assets (2)    19.7      17.2     20.2     24.6      22.4     17.9     16.5     16.6      16.6     N.A.
Ratios: Pulp & Paper Sector / Total Manufacturing Sector (Top 1000 Corporations) (Percent) c/
Gross Sales Ratio   (X)     3.7       3.2      2.8      2.6       2.8      2.9      2.6      2.8       3.2     N.A.
Net Income Ratio    (X)     5.4      (9.2)   (27.1)   284.7    (26.2)   (29.9)   (21.8)    (6.8)       1.3     N.A.
Total Asset Ratio  (2)      5.4       5.4      5.9      5.3       5.0      5.4      5.9      5.2       5.3     N.A.
Equity Ratio        (2)     3.4       3.3      3.8      4.1      3.9       3.7      3.6      2.8       2.5     N.A.
b /  Corporations in the Philippines, classified as among the top 1000 corpo:-ations by gross sales
c/ One Firm, Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines (PICOP), accounts for
about 45-60X of Sales and Assets, but it also accounts for most of the
losses of the industry, as illustrated above.
Sources: (1)"Development of the ASEAN Pulp & Paper Industry", Abubakar Soetikuo, Tokyo, June 15, 1987
(2) Pulp & Paper Industry Association of the Philippines
(3)"Ten Year Development Plan for the Pulp & Paper Industry", 6/30/1988,by
Leverage International (Consultants)inc.
(4) 1000 Top Corporations in the Philippines"
AS21E, 89/05/18



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.03
Page 6 of 8
protection levels well below 1002, and, in some product lines, should be
able to meet international competition in growing export markets in Asia.
This suggests that duties on inputs and outputs could be further reduced
significantly in order to foster and improve industry competitiveness.
7.         The Philippines consumes 9 kilograms (kgs) of paper per capita
yearly.   This  figure pales  in comparison with the per capita annual
consumption of 56 kgs in Korea, the over 100 kgs in Hongkong and Sin-
gapore,  or even with the 12 kgs in Thailand.   Since the Philippines
expects to accelerate its industrial and economic growth in the coming
years, demand for paper is projected to grow significantly.   The produc-
tion growth figure for the subsector has been conservatively estimated at
about 52 per year, with the different paper products registering varied
increases from 32 for paperboard to 62 for newsprint. The pulp and paper
subsector will have to restructure to a large extent if it is to meet that
growing demand at competitive costs.
8.         The figures on the biggest enterprises indicate that, with the
exception of the largest corporation (PICOP) which posted losses from 1980
to 1987, the subsector firms earned increasing profits in 1985-1987 after
experiencing losses in 1981-82 and 1984. These results, combined with the
projected increase in demand,  suggest that the subsector,  if properly
restructured,  has  good  recovery potential.    The preceding paragraphs
indicate that the subsector restructuring will necessitate looking at
issues which are similar to those of the cement subsector: issues of trade
policy, international competitiveness in cost structure of plants, physi-
cal and financial restructuring.   Issues specific to the subsector that
need further study are: efficiency of raw material production and process-
ing; and policy changes regulating tree farming and tree plantations for
pulp production.
Inter-Island Shipping/Ship Repair Subsector
9.         Given the archipelagic composition of the Philippines,  inter-
island shipping is a vital component of the country's transportation
network. Ship repair is essentially in the private sector. A quarter of
the vessel fleets, however, are owned by the public sector; though these
account for only 271 of total coastal trade, they dominate the trade of
certain key commodities (95Z of steel, 902 of copper concentrates, 72Z of
petroleum, and 471 of coal).
10.        Though the Government intends to liberalize the granting of
permits to shipping companies to promote cost reduction and more efficient
service, inter-island shipping remains one of the most closely regulated
subsectors, with 15 agencies involved in its regulation.   The most con-
straining regulation is the setting of passenger and freight rates. With
rapidly rising costs of services, inadequate infrastructure facilities and
poor turn-around times, the sector's profitability has declined rapidly,
so much so that the banks are unwilling to extend credit.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1.03
Page 7 of 8
11.        Lack of financing has led to deterioration of the fleets, with
the average age of the over 4,000 interisland vessels exceeding 20 years.
The maintenance and repair record is poor. These problems are compounded
by inadequate safety regulations, as illustrated by the sinking of several
vessels in the past few years.   The poor inter-island shipping services
combined with lack of other infrastructure on many of the islands con-
tribute to the excessive concentration of industry in the Metro Manila
area and its vicinity.
12.        Issues which need study are:  development of an economically
rational set of policies and regulations as well as institutional support
for the subsector to foster competition and efficiency; comparison of
present and potential cost structures in the Philippines with those of
other countries; fleet restructuring, repair yard modernization and
privatization of government-owned companies.
The Textile and Garment Subsectors
13.        In the textile sector, trade reforms have created new oppor-
tunities in the form of indirect exports.  An Advance Tax Credit Scheme
enables the textile industry to recover quickly, or even avoid payments
of, tariffs and duties on inputs for manufacture of indirect exports. The
resulting lower cost of local textiles has led the garment industry, which
used to import almost lOOZ of its inputs, to source about 30Z of such
inputs from the local textile industry.  The data on the textile industry
(Table 3 on page 8 of this Annex) indicate increased production and sales
revenues in 1986-87 as well as profits after a period of negative returns.
In the light of recent developments, the study of the textile and garment
subsectors prepared in 1986 and 1987 under the Bank's Textile Restructur-
ing Project of 1982 (Loan 2127-PH) needs updating with particular atten-
tion to (i) further streamlining of trade policy, following a review of
the cascading of tariffs on raw materials, intermediate and final prod-
ucts, (ii) a review of the quota allocation system for garments in export
markets, (iii) environmental aspects notably with regard to finishing
operations, and (iv) investment opportunities



- 47 -                               Annex 1.03
Page 8 of 8
Table 3: Key Statistics for the Textile InduBtry 1979-88
....._....................................................................................................................
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      #86      1987      1988
A. PRCUCTtON. TRADE & CONSUNPTION
. . .              . ..an
1. Locel Production  (000  T)       115       96        96        81       88        76       71        89       119      121
2. Iqorts              (O00 MT)       35        27       26        33       14        12        16       14        21       25
3. Exports
Direct Exports    (OOO  T)        10       13        13         9        6         6        6         0         5        5
Indirect Exports  (000  T)         1        2         3        2         2        4         6        17       37        43
Total Exports (000 NT)        11       1S        16       11         8       10        12        17       42        48
4. Consurption         (O00 NT)      139       108      106       103       94        78       75        86        98       98
S. Per Capita Consuwption (tg)       3.0      2.3       2.1       2.0      1.8       1.5      1.4       1.5       1.7      1.7
6. ItWorts/Consmuption      tX)    25.2      25.0      24.5     32.0      14.9      15.4     21.3      16.3      21.4     25.5
7. Exports/Production       tX)      7.9     13.9      15.1      10.7      8.5      i2.8     16.0      19.8     42.9      49.0
B. EMPLOYMENT
U3W3U MunU
1. Textile Industry       (000)      N.A.      96        85        72       77        71       70        70        70       86
2. Total Nanufg. Empl.   (000)       N.A.   1,850    1,780    1.888    1,822    1,847    1,926    1,763    2.054    2.198
3. Text.Ind./Tot.eanufg.   (X)       N.A.     5.2       4.8       3.8      4.2       3.8      3.6         4       3.8      3.9
C. DATA OM THE LARGEST TEXTILE CORPORATIONS OF THE PHILIPPINES a/
:W= 80        -       --==                                     as
1. U of Textile Corporatns.(#)        13       13        14        14       14        14       15        19        21      N.A.
2. Gross SaLes      (P MiLlion)  1259.1   1342.6   2034.2   1941.4   2145.0   2790.1   3291.8   3267.8   4999.2            N.A.
3. Net Income       (P Hittion)      '.1)   (59.9)   (41.3)   (63.0)   (12.4)    21.3    (22.4)    40.6    194.6           N.A.
4. Assets           (P Million)  194  ?   2385.4   3251.5   3275.3   3250.3   3371.0   3815.1   3439.3   5578.5            N.A.
5. Paid-Up Capital (P Million)   349.2    399.7    599.5    718.3    7M.1    709.8    784.5    723.8   1377.0             N.A.
6. Return on Sales          CX)    (0.1)    (4.5)    (2.0)    (3.2)    (0.6)         0.8     (0.7)      1.2       S.9      N.A.
7. Return on Assets         tX)    (0.1)    (2.5)    (1.3)    (1.9)    (0.4)         0.6     (0.6)      1.2      3.5       N.A.
8. Return on Pd.-Up Cap.   MX)    (0.3)   (15.0)    (6.9)    (8.8)    (1.7)          3.0     (2.9)      5.6      1'..1     N.A.
9. Pd.-Up Capit/Assets      tX)    17.9       16.8     18.4      21.9     21.8      21.1     20.6      21.0      24.7      N.A.
Ratios: Textile Sector / Totat Narwfacturing Sector (Top 1000 Corporations) ( Percent) b/
10. C. Sales Ratio          CX)      1.9      1.7       2.2       1.8      1.7       1.6      1.9       1.8      2.6       N.A.
11. N. Income Ratio         tX)    (0.1)    (5.0)    (4.0)    55.8        (1.8)      0.8     (0.9)      0.6      2.3       N.A.
12. Total Asset Ratio       CX)      3.2      3.2       3.8      3.7       2.9       2.5      2.8       2.2      3.4       N.A.
13. Equity Ratio            tX)      1.8      1.9       2.2      2.5       2.2       2.0      2.1       1.4      2.4       N.A.
a/  Corporations In the Philippines classified as among the top 1000 corpo.atlons by gross sales
b/  Data on the Totat Manufacturing Sector ( Top 1000 Corporations) is contained in the Cement Sector Table
Sources: C1)"A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 1986-1995". Tootal Consultants, 10/1986
C2)"A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 199-199If". Tootal Consultants. 4/1989
(3)"1000 Top Corporations in the Philippines"
AS21E 89/05/17



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.01
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Total Assets of The Financial System, 1980_88al
-------1980------          ------1988-----
Amount                   Amount
(Bil. P)      Z          (Bil. P)       2
Central Bankb/                     65.4        20.9         349.9         39.8
Banking System                    188.8        60.3          391.8        44.6
Commercial Banks                138.4        44.2         328.9         37.4
Private Banks                 103.8        33.1         290.1         33.0
Government Banks               34.6        11.1          38.8          4.4
Thrift Institutions              10.6         3.4          24.9          2.9
Rural Banks                       5.6         1.8          10.7          1.2
Specialized Government Banks    34.2         10.9          27.3          3.1
Nonbanks                           58.9        18.8         137.7         15.6
Total                             313.1       100.0         879.4        100.0
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines
a/         As of December 31.
bl         The relative importance of CBP, as indicated by the volume of its assets,
must be interpreted with care since many assets of CBP are merely book
entries.   For example, CBP assets include an item called Revaluation of
International Reserves which in fact represents losses incurred by CBP in
swap and forward-cover operations entered into in the past. Likewise, the
accumulated interest expenses and issuances and servicing costs of CBP
securities and open market instruments like CB bills and Reserve
Repurchase Agreements are also carried in the books as assets. It appears
that as much as half of CBP's assets may have this special character. If
these items are eliminated, CBP's share of system assets would be reduced
from 39.82 to 252.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.02
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Outstanding Credit to Manufacturing, 1980-1988
(million Pesos)
-------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Specialized Govt
Commercial Banks   Thrift Banks           Banks            Total
Amount    X    Amount    2         Amount    X    Amount    2
1980  27,053  75.9   435    1.2          8,172   22.9  35,660   100
1981  26,347  73.0   498    1.4          9,220   25.6  36,065   100
1982  29,958  74.4   639    1.6          9,645   24.0  40,242   100
1983  35,410  63.3   901    1.6         19,602   35.1  55,913   100
1984  32,136  55.7   822    1.4         24,715   42.9  57,673   100
1985 21,856  57.4  1,344    3.5         14,885   39.1  38,085   100
1986  20,532  92.0  1,392    6.2           408    1.8  22,332   100
1987  35,765  96.3   531    1.4            860    2.3  37,156   100
i988  47,207  94.2   825    1.6          2,102    4.2  50,134   100
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__--
Source: Central Bank
I



- 50 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page I of 2
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVCSTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Develoment Bank of The Philippines
Balance Sheets, 1984 - 1988
(Pesos Million).
1984      1985        1986       1987       1988
Assets                                 -----------------Audited -------------------
Cash and deposits with banks          2,A78      2,459      1,169         858     1,195
Loans and advances                   38,802    27,451       5,271       4,395     3,005
Investments in securities            14,185    12,186       2,186       4,856    4.,664
Fixed assets                          5,467      8,324        459         332       276
Other assets                          4,528    21,624         418          90       291
TOTAL ASSETS                         65,460    72,044       9,503      10,531    13,431
Liabilities and Stockholders Equity
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                 8,742    12,817         585         727       221
Time and savings deposits               978      1,519        561         532     1,853
Interest due and other payables       5,477      4,728      1,199       2,184     1,556
Deferred credits                      1,283      1,374        308         341       276
Long-term borrowings                 43,808    45,001       2,026       1,340       998
National Gov't funds                  2,000      2,000      2,000       1,800     1,400
Other liabilities                        88        134         46         146        19
Total Liabilities          6F2376    67,573        6,825      7,070      6,323
Paid-in Capital                       9,935    18,208       2,500       2,500     2,500
Retained earnings                   (6,851)  (13,737)         178         961     2,608
Net Worth                    3,084     4,471       2,678      3,461      5,108
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NP!  WORTH     65,460    72,044       9,503      10,531    11,431
_-inmi    ini                    mum==    m=wam=
Guarantees outstanding               20,032    18,254      20,757      24,412        a/
Trust Funds Administered              1,534      1,923      2,119       3,040
a/    As part of the DBP rehabilitation program, contingent liabilities arising from the
guarantees issued by the Bank have been transferred to the Government.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CRPEDIT PROJECT
Development Bank of The Philippines
Income Statements 1984-1988
(Pesos Million)
YEAR ENDED DECZMBER 31
1954      1985        1966        1987       1988
----------------Audited-----------------------
Operating Revenues
Interest on loans and advances          1,131     1,296          724         587       795
Earnings on securities investments        356        532         563         687       470
Other income                            1,183      1,312        862          503     1,303
Total Operating Revenues           2,670      3,140       2,139       1,777      2,568
Operating Expenses
Interest and other financial            7,995     8,007       4,095          253       214
expenses
Salaries and Personnel                    290        321         353         265       292
Other administrative expenses             323        449         229         304       371
Taxes and licenses                          -          -          50           9          7
Provision for losses a0 O                              0      3,050          135          0
Total Operating Expenses           8,608      8,777       7,777         966        884
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)               (5,938)   (5,637)       (5,638)        811     1,684
Capital gains (losses)                (1,841)   (1,235)          (1)           1        (1)
from Equity Sales
GROSS INCOME (LOSS)                   (7,779)   (6,872)    (5,639)           812     L,683
Provision for Taxeu                       (8)       (14)           -        (30)      (37)
NET INCOME (LOSS)                     (7,787)   (6,886)    (5,639)           782     :.,647
Gov't Contribution a/                   5,400      7,445           -           -          -
Net Income after Gov't contribution(2,387)           559           -           -          -
a/   In 1984 and 1985, funding responsibility for DBP's non-performing accounts (NPAs)
was assumed by the Government by way of equity contributions equal to the total
losses on NPAs over the preceding year. Consequently, no provisions for losses
were made in those years; the item 'Government Contribution' represents the
Government's equity contribution and is, in effect, an extraordinary adjustment
to the 1984 and 1985 accounts made after computation of net income. In 1986 and
1987, DBP made loan loss provisions. DBP did not make additional provisions in 1988
because the very substantial provisions made in 1986 and 1987, combined witlh the
work-out of non-performing loans, has left DBP with a high level of provisions which
is fully adequate: as of December 31, 1988, provisions for doubtful accounts
represented 28.62 of total loans outstanding.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3.02
Page 1 of .
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CRCDIT PROJECT
Development Bank of The Philippines
Projected Balance Sheets, 1989-94
(Pesos Million)
ASSETS                                       1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Cash and deposits with banks                  321      317      386     452      421      493
Wholesale loans                             3,851  13,230  18,028  23,900  31,131  39,761
Retail loans                                7,881   9,003  11,344  13,307  15,174  16,903
Investments in securities                   2,594   2,286   2,231   2,478   2,633   2,596
Fixed assets                                  411      310     279      250      227      209
Other assets                                  338      174      174     174      174      174
TOTAL ASSETS                           15,396  25,320  32,442   40,561  49,760  60j136
Liabilities and Stockholders Equity
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                         328      191       86       1        1        1
Time and savings deposits                   1,224      964   1,139   1,314   1,4819  1,664
Interest due and other payables             1,526   1,748   1,913   1,818   2,037   2,244
Deferred credits                              581      397      397     397      397      397
Long-term borrowings                        5,491  14,963  21,125  28,231  35,758  44,601
other liabilities                           1,089      943      792     985      771      155
Total Liabilities                      10,239  19,206  25,452  32,388  40,0S5  49,062
Paid-in Capital                             2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500
Retained earnings                           2,657   3,614   4,490   5,673   7,165   a,574
Net Worth                               5,157   6,114   6,990   8,173   9,665  11,074
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH        15,396  25,320  32,442  40,561  49,760  60,136
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                                   1.9      3.1      3.6     3.9      4.1      4.4
Liquid Assets/Deposits and Short Term        20.7    27.4    31.5    34.4    28.3    29.6
Borrowings (2)
Liquid Assets/Deposits (2)                   26.2    32.9    33.9    34.4    28.3    29.6
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/             8.1      3.9      4.0     3.7      3.8      3.2
Total Loans (2)
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets (2)          6.6      6.7      6.6     6.4      6.3      5.2
Return on Average Net Worth (2)              17.7    17.0    13.4    15.6    15.8    13.6
Administrative Expenses/                      4.6      2.6      1.9     1.6      1.4      1.2
Average Total Assets (X)



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.02
Page 2 of 4
PHILIPPINCS
INDUSTRILL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Development Bank of The Philippines
ProJected Income Statemnts, 1989-94
(Pesos million)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Operating Revenues
Interest on loans                           1,234   2,643   3,882   5,000   6,228   7,072
Earnings on securities investments            147      204      189     204      229      239
Miscellaneous bank fees                        23       67       71      74       78       82
Other income                                  747      344      373     471      416      404
Total Operating Revenues                2,151   3,259   4.515   5,659   6.950   7,796
Operating Expenses
Interest and other fin. expenses              369   1,160   1,930   2,601   3,335   4,165
Salaries and Personnel                        409      343      360     378      397     417
Other Administrative expenses                 209      186      195     205      215      226
Prov. for doubtful accounts                   180       89      636     708      793     869
Depreciation                                   53       88       65      59       53       48
Total Operating Expenses                1,219   1.865   3,187   3.951   4,794   5,725
Income before taxes                           932   1,394   1,328   1,708   2,157   2,072
Gross receipts taxes                           60      114      158     198      243      273
Provision for income tax                       37      323     294      327      422     390
NET INCOME                                835      957     876   1,183   1,492   1,409
_ .~S_s .l                          sa
I



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.02
Page 3 of 4
Main Assumptions Used in Projections
1)  Prolected Disbursements
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
(Pesos million)
Retail,
Short-term                                   966     773     811      852     873     895
Long-term                                  3,284   2,627   2,759   2,896   2,969   2,969
Regional Development Fund                    512     362     365      357     460      572
Total Retail                               4,762   3762   3,935   4,105   4,302   4,436
Wholesale                                  3,344   7,006   5,451   7,227   9,130  11,252
2) Term Funding Sources
Projected Availments
(million)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
IGLF                                     $ 25.0  $ 40.0  $ 60.0  $ 70.0  $ 25.0          -
AJDF                                       140.0   210.0        -       -       -        -
Multilaterall/                              10.0    55.0    70.0   130.0   100.0    50.0
KFW                                          5.7    16.9    14.0        -       -        -
Swiss Line                                 40.0        -       -        -       -        -
Add'l Fin. Gap                                 -       -   100.0   100.0   200.0   300.0
$220.7  $321.9  $244.0  $300.0  $325.0  $350.0
Domestic Bonds                                 -  0300.0  9500.0        -       -  9700.0
1/   Includes IBRD and ADB
3. Interest Income
a.    Existing performing accounts as of 12-31-88:  average interest rate of 182 p.a.
b.    Existing non-performing accounts as of 12-31-88 assumed phased out by 1989:
average interest rate of 162 p.a.
c.    Wholesale loanst average interest rate of 13S p.a.
d.    Retail short-and long-term loans:  average interest rate of 18S p.a.
e.    Regional Development Fund loans:  average interest rate of 121 p.a.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3.02
Page 4 of 4
4. Cost of Borrowed Funds
Average Cost of Foreign Funds = 102
Average Cost of Domestic Funds - 152
5. Operating Expenses
Operating expenses (interest, personnel and other administrative
expenses) of the regional branches are excluded beginning in 1990 when
DBP's  equity  shareholdings  are  assumed to be  down to  30Z.    The
personnel reduction which will result from the branch privatization
will lead to reduction in salaries and other personnel expenses in
1990. Thereafter, a 52 growth in administrative expenses is assumed.
6. Provisions for Doubtful Accounts
a.    Equal 5? of loans outstanding, except for Regional Development
Fund loans where the amount is set equal to 15Z.
b.    Non-performing  accounts  of  pre-rehabilitation  period:    202
collected by end-1989; 802 written off.



- 56 -         Ann"x 3.03
5
0  lil1                 ______L
Sti 
^#i}            i10
I   t 1I,
il   f  J



_ 57 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 1 of 7
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
POLICY STATEMENT
Objectives
1.01   The Development Bank of the Philippines  (DEP) has substantially
completed its rehabilitation and financial strengthening program
which aimed at making it a viable and self-sustaining financial
institution.   The principal objective of DBP is now to provide
medium and long-term financing to the private sector.   The DBP
hopes to attain this objective by evolving into primarily a
wholesale bank, i.e., an institution channelling funds to other
financial institutions for on-lending to private business enter-
prises.  As a wholesale bank, DBP shall help fill a major gap in
the financial system of the country: the provision of long-term
credit to the private sector.
1.02   More specifically, DBP will:
a. bring together providers and users of medium and long- term
capital;
b. help  develop  the   capital markets  by  promoting medium  and
long-term capital market instruments (e.g. bonds) to which
institutional and individual investors can subscribe;
c. relend the funds it mobilizes primarily to accredited financial
institutions which will act as lending conduits for on-lending
to enterprises;
d. act as a major conduit for, and manage, official development
assistance funds which the private sector will use;
e. manage industrial sector credit programs funded by multilateral
development financial institutions; and
f. undertake all other activities which are conducive to achieving
its broad aims and objectives.
1.03   DBP will gradually expand its wholesale lending activities in line
with the objectives stated above; the gradual reduction of its
retail lending in relative terms will be undertaken in an orderly
manner.   Over time, DBP plans to leave most retail development
lending to other financial institutions such that DBP's out-
standing portfolio will have a predominantly wholesale configu-
ration by the end of 1993.



ANNEX 3.04
Page 2 of 7
General Operational Principle.
1.04   As a development bank, DBP has to submit to the test of financial
viability. Thus, it will pursue policies that will ensure a sound
capital structure and the generation of sufficient earnings to
cover costs, earn a profit margin, build up appropriate reserves
and protect its equity base from erosion.
1.05   The wider social consequences from the developmental role the DBP
must play dictate that while it has to pass standard market tests,
it also has to assess its operational and financial results in
terms of their economic and developmental impact.
1.06   DBP will  operate on an equal market footing with  its private
sector counterparts. These two fundamental principles of ensuring
financial viability within a competitive market framework and of
continuing to play a development role jointly define the place DBP
will occupy within the financial system.   As a financial insti-
tution with a development mission and as a development institution
with financing responsibility and viability, DBP is a development
bank with the usual functions and duties of banks under the thrift
category.
1.07   DBP shall increasingly concentrate on wholesale lending activities
in  close  partnership with  private  financial  institutions  duly
accredited by the Central Bank according to pre-agreed criteria
from.   The accreditation criteria shall include:   (a) a track
record of profitable operations and sound capitalization; (b) an
ability to maintain a sound and healthy portfolio as shown by the
institution's level of arrearages; (c) a qualified management team
of good reputation and (d) adequacy of trained staff, established
systems and procedures to be an efficient and reliable purveyor pf
retail credits.  DBP shall be active in syndication with private
banks and shall work closely with them to efficiently on-lend
development funds to the private sector.   DBP will premise its
participation in the syndicate on the need to ensure that program
lending is fully carried out and to cover gaps that private bankcs
may not be able to fill.
1.08   Except when specifically allowed under Monetary Board (MB) regu-
lations or by virtue of agreements that the Government and DBP
will enter into with multilateral or bilateral institutions, DBP
will not enjoy special privileges. Thus,
a. Its obligations will not enjoy government guarantees;
b. It will have no preferential access to the funds of the Central
Bank;



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 3 of 7
c. It will not benefit from special tax privileges;
d. It will not enjoy undue preferential treatment for deposits of
the Philippine government and of Philippine government corpora-
tions;
e. It will not  receive   additional  government equity  to cover
losses that DBP might incur in the future.
This would not preclude DBP however, from arranging for equity
increases from the National Government which may become necessary
to maintain a sound capital structure as its development lending
activities increase.
1.09   DBP will have a private sector orientation with autonomy in its
decision-making within the regular regulatory framework and sig-
nificant private sector representation in its Board of Directors.
1.10   DBP will avoid lending to the public sector.
Rehabilitation Period
1.11   Although its rehabilitation has been substantially completed, DBP
reiterates its commitment to carry out the remaining elements of
its  rehabilitation plan.    DBP will  scale  down  the number  of
wholly-owned branches, agencies and offices it will maintain from
the current level of 70 to 15. The pooling of its remaining branch
network into five regional development banks for privatization is
to be given top priority.  Through the process of privatization of
these regional development banks, DBP shall gradually give way to
increasing private sector participation through equity holdings.
A target for such private sector participation is set at 252 of
the total equity base of the five (5) regional development banks
combined in 1989 and 452 in 1990.  By the end of 1992, DBP shall
have reduced to minority position its holdings in each of the five
regional development banks.
Investment Policies
1.12   DBP shall adopt a lending policy that would achieve a balanced
regional, sectoral and industrial distribution of its funds
consistent with national development priorities.   DBP shall gear
its financial help towards the promotion of economic development
of the country. This will relate to:
a. provision  of  its  funds  for  investment  and working  capital
purposes; and
b. establishment of new enterprises and expansionlrationalization
of existing enterprises.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 4 of 7
1.13    In its lending activities, DBP shall adopt an interest rate and
fees policy that:
a. ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs,
including provisions as required, plus an adequate profit
margin; and
b. is consistent with prevailing market rates for loans of
similar maturity and risk.
1.14   For its retail lending, DBP shall base its investment decisions on
its own analysis of the viability of the project and the ente;-
prise. Towards this end, DBP will apply specific lending criteria
that include lending only to projects with (a) proponents of good
credit standing; (b) sound management; (c) satisfactory financing
and marketing plans; (d) adequate financial rates of return; (e)
technical soundness.   DBP shall maintain a Risk Asset Management
Manual(RAMM) that sets out credit policies and procedures embo-
dying these lending criteria.
1.15   For its wholesale lending operations, DBP shall lend only to duly
accredited institutions. It will develop and apply uniform guide-
lines, policies and procedures for each loan program to ensure a
consistent approach in dealing with accredited institutions.   DBP
will rely on the credit judgment of the accredited institutions
and not pass upon individual loan applications, except for large
projects involving amounts beyond a threshold loan amount of not
less than 85 million pesos.
1.16   DBP will  carry  out  adequate monitoring  of borrowers  and will
require these borrowers to keep proper records of accounts and
furnish operational and financial data to DBP as it may reasonably
request.
Financial Prudence Limits
1.17   Within the broader limits provided  for by law and by the DBP
Charter (Executive Order No. 81), DBP establishes the following
exposure limits in order to maintain a prudent and diversified
loan portfolio:
Except as otherwise agreed by the Monetary Board,
a. DBP shall limit its total exposure to a single client or group
of companies, .retail or wholesale, inclusive of loans, guaran-
tees and equity investment, to 15 per cent of DBP's unimpaired
capital and surplus.



- M3 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 5 of 7
b. DBP shall limit its total equity investments in a single enter-
prise to no more than 152 of DBP's own total equity and shall
not seek majority ownership or management control of any entity
except in cases where its exposure in the enterprise is in jeop-
ardy.  DBP's investments in 'ts operating subsidiaries will be
exempt from these limits.
c. Rules fully consistent with prudent banking transactions shall
govern issuance of guarantees or similar commitments.
1.18   DBP agrees to the transfer to it of the IGLF and Apex Loan prog-
rams which the Central Bank is now managing.  After the transfer
of the IGLF and Apex loan programs, DBP shall manage the acquired
portfolios on an agency basis and undertake for its own account
new lending under the programs, applying its normal investment
policies and lending criteria, including protection against
foreign exchange risk.
Operations on An Agency Basis
1.119   DBP may undertake specific lending operations at the request of
the Government in support of government programs/projects. Such
operations will be undertaken only if (i) the Government earmarks
funds for such projects;  (ii)  the Government pays  the DBP an
appropriate fee for undertaking that function and (iii) such
lending does not entail any financial risk for DBP's own account
and the resultant loans are kept off DBP books.
Socio-Economic Projects
1.20   DBP may constitute each year a portion not exceeding 302 of its
net income after tax for the previous year into a special fund for
loan, equity and quasi-equity financing of projects of great
socio-economic benefit but which do not fully meet the financial
return criteria of DBP's regular loans.   This is clasified as
Window III lending. DBP may add back to the special fund any loan
or investment exclusive of earnings, previously made from the fund
and subsequently repaid.   DBP will charge an interest rate for
projects in this category that will cover the overhead cost and
the projected inflation rate for the year to preserve the real
value of the fund.
1.21   Within the framework of Window III lending and consistent with its
development mission,  DBP seeks to establish long-term relation-
ships, mainly by lending medium and long-term funds to entrep-
reneurs engaged in projects with high developmental impact, but
subj;ected to market discipline.  Some of these projects may be in
newer fields and with higher risks such that private financial



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 6 of 7
institutions may be less willing to commit their resources into
such projects over the medium and long haul.
Retail Operations
1.22   Subject to the predominantly wholesale nature of its operations,
DBP shall continue to engage in direct lending operations where it
shall simply serve as a catalyst, especially in the strategic
sectors where the private sector may still be hesitant to enter
fully.  But it must ensure that it does not erode its equity base
and that it gradually withdraws from the economic areas which the
private sector can take over.
Financial Policies
1.23   DBP will ensure a prudent interest rate and maturity match between
its assets and liabilities.
1.24   To ensure high standards of financial management, DBP will main-
tain a planning and budgeting system, an effective and efficient
system of asset and liability management, and a liquidity manag-
ement system.
1.25   To finance its operations, DBP shall mobilize private sector funds
and funds from other government financial institutions such as SSS
and GSIS on market terms.
1.26   To diversify fund sources by investor type and maturity, the bank
shall introduce appropriate term instruments.
Capital Structure
1.27   The debt-equity ratio for DBP consolidated with that of its sub-
sidiaries   and taking into account contingent liabilities, shall
not exceed 5:1.
1.28   The Bank shall not expose itself to uncovered foreign exchange
risks.
Organization and Staff Development
1.29   DBP will have an effective system of controls,  a sensitive and
responsive monitoring mechanism, and a decision-making process
that assigns accountabilities and responsibilities.
1.30   It will  also  develop  technically  qualified  staff,  taking  into
account the special skills required for effective fulfillment of
its functions.   It will provide a compensation package commen-
surate with responsibilities discharged and competitive with



- 63 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 7 of 7
private sector remuneration to attract and retain competent staff
members.
1.31   DBP shall maintain its credit committee to undertake evaluation of
all loan proposals which require the approval of the Chairman or
the Board, before submission to either of the latter, without in
any manner affecting the prerogatives of the Chairman or the
Board.
Accounts and Audit
1.32   The Bank shall use generally accepted accounting principles  in
recording its transactions, consistent with Central Bank regula-
tions.  It will have a private external audit conducted annually.
Modification to the Policy Statement
1.33   The  DBP will  not  change  this  Policy  Statement  without  prior
consultation with, and approval of, the proper relevant author-
ities.
1.34   This  Policy  Statement  and  any  modification  thereof,  and  its
implementation shall be subject to Philippine laws and the rules
and regulations of the appropriate regulatory government entities.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CRCDIT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
Far East bank and Trust Conany
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985        1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                          12,707.1    15,375.8        19,149.10   28,093.00
Liquid Assets                          7,030.2      8,410.6        9,057.50   12,168.20
Outstanding Loan Portfolio             5,000.2      6,096.7        9,791.60   13,709.. 60
Equity Investments                       205.3         32.2           41.20       350.60
Provisions for Losses                    884.2        733.4          741.90       737.90
Total Deposits                         8,561.3    11,734.0        15,351.10   21,111.60
(Short-Term)                         6,447.5     8,835.7       11,371.90   16,412.30
(Long-Term)                         2,113.8      2,898.3        3,979.20    4,699.30
Long-Term Debt                             -            -              -           33.70
Net Worth                              1,202.1      1,460.6        1,788.70    2,235.00
Gross Income                           1,912.9      1,686.0        1,915.20    2,798.50
Interest Expenses                        923.0        851.4          848.90    1,336.10
Net Income After Tax                     290.1        311.3          380.90       500.20
Dividends                                 46.2         52.8           52.80        66.00
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (Z)                        15.7         12.0           11.10        11.80
Gross Spread (Z)                           6.2          5.6            6.20         6.10
Net Income/Average Net Worth (Z)          26.9         23.4           23.40        24.90
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  9.6          9.5            9.70        11.60
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (Z)       17.7         12.0            7.60         5.40
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (Z)                         3.5          3.4            3.90         4.10
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (Z)          82.1         71.7           59.00        57.60
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                      -             -              -          looz
a/  Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
principal.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 2 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVl STMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
Bank of Philippine Islands
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985        1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                          16,210.2    18,386.A        20,661.8    26,280.4
Liquid Assets                          7,272.5      8,752.7        9,805.7    13,373.0
Outstanding Loan Portfolio             6,718.5      7,631.8        8,682.7    10,620.0
Equity Investments                       459.8        504.6          772.1        942.0
Provisions for Losses                    240.2        343.8          377.0        444.0
Total Deposits                        12,267.0    14,630.o        16,972.0    21,333.9
(Short-Term)                        12,094.5    14,203.7       16,402.1    20,780.9
(Long-Term)                            172.5       426.9           569.9        553.0
Long-Term Debt                            26.2         95.8          104.9         80.6
Net Worth                              1,161.2      1,382.7        1,607.4      1,898.0
Gross Inconme                          2,613.7      2,357.3        2,086.6      2,541.4
Interest Expenses                      1,511.8      1,168.0          793.2      1,203.0
Net Income After Tax                     253.4        246.8          303.1        394.2
Dividends                                 48.0        232.4           71.2        340.8
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (2)                        17.1         13.6           10.7         10.2
Gross Spread (2)                           6.3          6.5            6.1          4.5
Net Income/Average Net Worth (Z)          23.9         19.4           20.3         22.5
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                 13.0         12.3           11.9         12.8
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (Z)        3.6          4.5            4.3          4.2
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (Z)                           4.7          4.6            4.2          4.1
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (2)          59.3         59.8           57.8         62.7
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                      -            -              -             100o
a/ Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
prin:ipal.
i



66 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 3 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL IVSTHEN  CREDIT PROJZCT
Participatins Financial Institutions
Metropolitan Bank and Trust Co many
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
198S        1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                          16,441.2    16,175.40       19,368.0    26,049.0
Liquid Assets                          7,397.0      7,288.0        7,550.0    11,238.0
Outstanding Loan Portfolio             6,785.0      6,848.30       9,724.0    12,338.0
Equity Investments                       322.1        434.00         556.0        504.0
Provisions for Losses                    217.0        267.30         346.0        410.0
Total Deposits                        11,395.6    12,452.50       15,125.0    19,723.0
(Short-Term)                        9,813.6    11,142.70       14,110.9    18,476.1
(Long-Term)                         1,582.0      1,309.80       1,014.1      1,246.9
Long-Term Debt                            40.7         64.20          87.8         47.5
Net Worth                                869.5        923.80       1,101.0      1,502.0
Gross Income                           2,004.2      1,731.00       1,633.0      2,407.0
Interest Expenses                      1,281.5        979.80         670.0      1,025.0
Net Income After Tax                     138.7        120.20         250.4        353.0
Dividends                                 36.6         52.10          37.3        251.9
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (Z)                        12.5         10.60           9.2         10.6
Gross Spread (2)                           4.2          3.80           4.7          5.0
Net Income/Average Net Worth (Z)          16.8         13.40          24.7         27.1
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                 17.9         16.50          16.6         16.3
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (2)        3.2          3.90           3.6          3.3
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (2)                         3.1          3.10           3.3          3.4
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (2)          64.9         58.50          49.9         57.0
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                      1002         1002           1OOZ        1002
a/  PFI's cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues (n interest
and principal.



67 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 4 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
Philippine Co_rcial International Bank
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985         1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                           16,406.40   14,263.30       17,267.90   19,676.00
Liquid Assets                           7,850.70    5,177.20         6,345.50    7,773.00
Outstanding Loan Portfolio              6,765.60    6,961.90        8,530.00    9,372.00
Equity Investments                        179.80       137.60          150.80       203.00
Provisions for Lossesu                    145.40       153.10          211.90       146.00
Total Deposits                         10,855.00   10,449.80       11,542.80   14,237.00
(Short-Term)                         5,113.50    7,024.60         8,514.00   10,854.00
(Long-Term)                          5,741.50    3,425.20         3,028.83    3,383.00
Long-Term Debt                              -           23.40           26.70        46.80
Net Worth                                 980.40       928.20       1,620.50    2,196.00
Gross Income                            1,502.00    1,877.30        1,704.70    2,162.00
Interest Expenses                         789.00       896.40          567.90       647.00
Net Income After Tax                      120.40       202.50          278.40       404.00
Dividends                                  36.30        77.00           00.80
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (2)                         11.30        12.20           10.80        11.70
Gross Spread (2)                            4.50         5.90            6.70         7.10
Net Income/Average Net Worth (2)           12.90        21.20           21.80        21.20
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  15.70        14.40            9.70         8.00
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (Z)         2.10         2.20            2.50         1.60
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (2)                          3.60         4.60            5.10         4.90
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (2)           72.32        49.54           54.97        54.60
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                       -            100S           1002         1002
a/ Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
principal.



* 68 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 5 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVCSTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
Citytrust Banking Corporation
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985        1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                           5,056.7      5,442.0        6,095.70    8,091.00
Liquid Assets                          2,760.9      3,198.0        3,182.80    4,03.7.00
Outstanding Loan Portfolio             1,935.9      1,786.3        2,390.40    2,760.90
Equity Investments                       170.1        197.5          212.80       213.20
Provisions for Losses                    228.9        198.4          127.90        81.80
Total Deposits                         2,332.8      3,075.0        3,919.10    4,237. 00
(Short-Term)                        1,712.5      2,508.2        3,117.80    3,060.20
(Long-Term)                            620.3       566.8          801.30    1,176.80
Long-Term Debt                             -           37.2           47.80        6>9.90
Net Worth                                687.6        810.2          901.60       904.90
Gross Inc3me                             888.4        697.5          655.30       758.20
Interest Expenses                        390.9        257.2          187.70       228.50
Net Income After Tax                     153.4        163.4          155.40       152.60
Dividends                                 33.0        105.9           63.10        73.70
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (Z)                        17.9         13.3           11.40        10.70
Gross Spread (Z)                           7.9          8.3            8.10         7.50
Net Income/Average Net Worth (2)          24.5         21.8           18.20        16.90
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  6.4          5.7            5.80         7.90
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (2)       11.8         11.1            5.40         3.00
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (Z)                         5.1          4.9            4.80         5.00
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (2)         118.4        104.0           81.21        95-30
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                      -            1002           1002         1002
a/ Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
principal.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3.05
Page 6 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTHMET CRkDIT PROJZCT
Participating Financial Institutions
International Corporate Bank
Key Financial Dat&
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985 -      1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                           5,388.70    4,205.70        5,160.40    7,273.00
Liquid Assets                          1,972.70    2,300.10        2,695.40    3,329.20
Outstanding Loan Portfolio             3,021.90    1,726.20        2,104.30    3,350.10
Equity Investments                         -            3.00           3.90         4.10
Provisions for Losses                     66.20        62.00          52.70        79.50
Total Deposits                         1,553.40    1,331.60        1,625.30    2,866.20
(Short-Term)                           584.90      492.60         704.70    1,571.90
(Long-Term)                            968.50      839.00         920.60    1,294.30
Long-Term Debt                             -            -              -            -
Net Worth                                740.80       909.30       1,001.80    1,108.10
Gross Income                             570.00       529.90         534.60       824.10
Interest Expenses                        244.70       215.90         193.70       333.60
Net Income After Tax                      89.80       120.40         140.40       162.40
Dividends                                  -            -             48.20        56.20
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (1)                        11.4         11.04          11.42        13.26
Gross Spread (Z)                           -            6.24           7.17         7.44
Net Income/Average Net Worth (Z)          12.8         14.60          14.93        15.40
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  6.30         3.60           4.20         5.60
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (1)        2.2          3.60           2.50         2.40
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (1)                         na.          3.73           3.52         4.94
Liquid Assets/Total Deposits (Z)         126.99       172.73         165.84       116.15
Cash Collection Ratio a/
Apex Loan Portfolio                                  -not applicable-
a/ Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
principal.



- 70
ANNEX 3.05
Page 7 of 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
Anscor Capital and Investment Corporation
Key Financial Data
(Pesos million)
----------- Audited -----------    (Unaudited)
1985         1986           1987       1988
Total Assets                              320.00       371.20          381.90       288.80
Liquid Assets                              79.60       128.50          143.50        92.70
Outstanding Loan Portfolio                169.60       163.00          143.40       117.90
Equity Investments                         29.60        37.60           47.80        48.20
Provisions for Losses                       9.10        10.50           17.00        18.90
Total Deposits                              -            -               -            -
(Short-Term)
(Long-Term)                               -            -              -             _
Long-Term Debt                            102.70       100.00           64.00        46.10
Net Worth                                  98.60       115.60          150.20       162.60
Gross Income                               77.50        64.50           89.80        75.90
Interest Expenses                          47.10        24.70           28.00        29.10
Net Income After Tax                       11.10        22.10           34.60        21.10
Dividends                                   2.20         5.00            -           48.80
Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (Z)                         25.00        18.70           23.80        22.60
Gross Spread (Z)                            8.90        11.00           14.60        13.40
Net Income/Average Net Worth (X)           12.10        20.60           26.00        13.50
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                   2.20         2.20            1.50         0.80
Provisions/Total Loan Portfolio (Z)         5.40         6.40           11.90        X6.00
Administrative Expense/Average
Total Assets (2)                          5.30         4.60            5.50         6.60
Cash Collection Ratio al
Apex Loan Portfolio                       100o         1oo0           lOOZ         1007
a/  Cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and
principal.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4.01
Page 1 of 3
THE PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.  Bank Supervision Input:  The staff input indicated in the table below
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress
reports, subloans above the free limit, correspondence etc. estimated
at four staff-weeks during the first project year, three staff-weeks
during the two following project years, and one staff-week per year
thereaft2ri
Skill                Staff
Approximate Dates        Activity                              Requirements             Weeks
October 1989             Supervision Mission                   Financial Analysis          3
-Expedite start-up                    Industrial Economics
-Review: implementation of
organizational arrangements;
marketing of program
-Provide direction to consultants
and study teams on subsector
studies.
January/February,        Supervision Mission                   Financial Analysis          3
1990                 -Reviews DBP's 1989 performance       Industrial Economics
and 1990 workplan; implemen-         Capital Markets
tation of training program;
performance of PFIs.
-Verify adherence to Operating
Policy Guidelines of Project
and DBP's Policy Statement.
-Comments on drafts of first
set of subsector studies and
discussions on detailed TORs
of second set of subsector
studies.
!



- 72 -
AIISX 4.01
Page 2 of 3
September, 1990         Supervision Mission                  Financial Analysis         3
-Review progress on subloan         Industrial Economics
comituents and disbursements       Environmental Specialist
-Co ments on final draft of
subsector studies.
-Discuss follow-up on sub-
sector studies.
January/February.       Supervision Mission
1991               Review: DJP's 1990 performance       Financial Analysis        2
and 1991 work plan; subloan
comitments and disbursements.
September 1991          Supervision Mission                  Financial Analysis         2
Environmental Specialist
1992          2 Supervision Missions               Financial Analysis        2
1993          2 Supervision Missions               Financial Analysis        2
1994          1 Supervision Mission                Financial Analysis        1
June      1995          1 Supervision Mission.               Financial Analysis         2
Industrial Economist
2. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision:
(a) During project implementation, DBP will provide the Bank with the
following information at the end of April and October of each yeart
- Operational and Financial Performance of DBP.
- Operational and Financial Performance of PFIs.
- Lending operations: Commitments and Disbursements by
Financial intermediary (PFI)
Type of financial instrument
Size of Operation
Industrial Subsector
-   Subproject performance
* Financing composition of subprojects
* Subproject costs and items financed through the loan
* Employment impact
. Sales
* Foreign exchange generation
* Company profits
* Implementation delays



. 73 -
ANNEX 4.01
Page 3 of 3
- Technical Assistance Program
* Progress report on subsectoral studies
. Progress report on consultant assistance to DBP
(b)   DBP will be  responsible  for coordinating arrangements  for Bank
supervision missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(c) Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by the
Chairman of DBP. Mission wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the
Chairman of DBP with the participation of an UnderSecretary from Department
of Finance, an UnderSecretary from the Department of Trade and Industry and
representatives of the PFIs.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5.01
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. DBP Annual Reports
2. DBP Institutional Development Plan, March 1989.
3. A Resource Mobilization Strategy for DBP, December 1988.
4. Draft Project Completion Report on the Philippines Industrial Finance Project
(Loan No. 1984-PH), March 1989.
5. Central Bank of the Philippines, Annual Report, 1988.
6. Reports of the Apex Unit on Participating Financial Institutions.
7. A Profile on the Philippine Cement Industry (Board of Investments, Department
of Trade and Industry, January 1988).
8. Ten-Year Development Plan for the Pulp and Paper Industry (Leverage
International Inc., June 30, 1988).
9. A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 1986-95
(Tootal Consultants, October 1986).
10. A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 1989-95
(Tootal Consultants, May 1989).
11. The Inter-Island Shipping Industry: Problems, Prospects and Policy Agenda
(Center for Research and Communication, December, 1987).
12. Industrial Restructuring Program of the Philippines: Action list, Background
Information on the Philippine Economy, and Supplementary Information for
Consultants (Development Bank of the Philippines, March 1989).
13. Terms of Reference - Cement Restructuring Program (DBP, March 1989).
14. Terms of Reference - Inter-Island Shipping/Shiprepair Subsector Restructuring
Program (DBP, March 1989)
15. Terms of Reference - Training Program (DBP, March 1989).
16. Terms of Reference - Pulp and Paper Restructuring Program (DBP, March, 1989).



