Doclmmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RepwtNo. 12127
PROJECT COXMPLETION REPORT
PEILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INA ESTHENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3123-PH'
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Re-ort No: 12127
Ty"s: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of
dhir off'ical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY LEUIALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso P
US$1.00  -  P 21.3 (at Appraisal, March 1989)
US$1.00 -  P 21.7 (Average 1989)
US$1.00  - P 24.3 (Average 1990)
US$1.00  - P 27.5 (Average 1991)
US$1.00 - P 24.8 (Average October 1992)
ACROMYMS ANM  ABBREVIATIONS
COA      -  Commission on Audit
CBP      -  Central. Bank of the Philippines
DBP      -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DTI      -  Department of Trade and Industry
EP       -  Economic Recovery Program Loan
FR       -  Financial Rate of Return
FSAL    -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
IDP     -  Institutional Development Program/Plan
_Es     -  Investment Enterprises
IICP     -  Industrial Investment Credit Project
IRP     -  Industrial Restructuring Project
JGF      -  Japanese Grant Facility
OPG      -  Operating Policy Guidelines
PCR         Project Completion Report
PFIs    -  Participating Financial Institutions
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SOE      -  Statement of Expenditures
TA       -  Studies, Training and Technical Assistance
JnSCAL YEAR
DBP: January 1 to Deceliber 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WVORL SANK
THFWO^ O x
W.slltn 0.G 20438
UA.
June 30, 1993
MI5M~~ORlJm THE  ,2OIbD1ECIt RS-AND 3RESXi
SUBJEC: Project Completion Report on MTe Philippines -
Industrial Investment Credit (Loan 3123-PH)
Attached is the Project Completon Report on The Philippines - Industrial Investment
Credit (Loan 3123-PH) prepared by the East Asia and Pacifc Regional Office. Tne Governmet
completed Part IL, which is generally in aveement uith Parts I and HI of the PCR as prepared by
the RegicL. The quality of the PCR is satisfactory.
1ne objecte of the project included. (a) prviding working capital, leasiog, term credit
and equity financing to medium and large private enterpnses; (b) strengthening the wholesale
bnkig funcin of the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP); (c) broadening the scope of
other financial serices available to enterpries; and (d) strengthening the analytical capacity within
DBP and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) carrying out policyoriented studies on
industrial subsector
The proect outcome is rated as satisfaty. This asesment is based primarily on its
succeSS as an industrial investment credit project whih effectively supported second tier
development credit institutions. Ihe credit was commtted ahead of schedule, primarily due to
greater than anticipated demand for aedit, altbough the pilot componet for equity financig was
not used. While subproject data are scarce, the project appeas to have had a hWi   than proected
positive impact on employment. Sustainability is likely, with partial institutional development the
transformation of DBP into a wholesale bank was not fully achieved since the expected privatization
of its retail branch network did not take place and DBPs role in the financial sector is still evolving.
The project may be audited together with the follow-up Industrial Restrucuing Project.
Attachment
ha docnan ha a rat:d dhtni  nd my be and by du  only in te psomae of th * oUIga dtum IN
_ ne tq ma oth bse te disdcnd  Wcdl dana aRNxlo                                 I



FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
p
PRCS COO RIPOol
Table of Contents
Preface            ........ ........  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  I
Evaluation Sumary  .... .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .  ..           1
I. PROJECT REVIEW FRC4 BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
Project Design oad Organ±astion  .....  .. . . .                  3
Project lmpleuentat. on.................                          4
Project Results  . . . . . . S. . . . . . . . . .    . .  ..      5
Project Sustainablity    .             . ............. .
Bank Performance..        . . . . . . . . . .          .                   8
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 * . .          8
Project Relationsip .................... 
Consulting Services  ............   .....                         9
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
Main Lessons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .     11
Project Description     ..        *..                            11
Evaluation of lplementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
conclusionw.... .                         .. . . . .             18
III. STATISTICAL IUFONT.              .................... ..........  . 20
1. Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .              20
2. Project Timetable.. . . ....                                  21
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . .      22
4. Status of Bu fk CCovant . . . . . .             .             23
S. Use of Bank Resources                                         25
A. Staff Input.                                              25
B. Missin  .  .                                              26
6.  Project Implementation. ...............                      27
6.1 Industry Subsector Distribution of Projects Financed . .     27
6.2 Regional Distribution of Projects Financed . . . . . . .     30
6.3 Financed Projects Distribution to PYls . . . . . . . . .     33
6.4 Disbursement/Rapayment Monitor . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34
6.5 Financial Characteristics of Projects Approved . . . . .     36
6.6 Economic Contribution of Projects Financed . . . . . . .     40
This document has a rstcted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in th pefance
of their offiil dutieL Its contents my not otheisb di sclosd witout Word Dak authrztion.



*   9999* 
*0   *  *  9  9  9
0~~~
9H    *  9  9  9  9
3..9 9...6
*
-  .    ., 9      91
* 9 9 *b.
, ... i
_ . . . . 
_ %
RD* 9 9 9 X 
X *   -              -94
a  *j *    
o    .
_ P_ Z " *
0                 0~~ *    045 
*                 _I- iD #Q Y4
45           04500.961 (n-4
0   54 o3 45...
a ~ iS.@6
be  6  .960~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................. ........................................ ... +.$...



INDUSTRIAL INVESThENT CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECM  C9  LETION REORT
This iS the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial
Investment Credit Project (IICP) in the PhilippInes, for which Loan 3123-PM was
approved by the Board on October 5. 1989. The US$65.0 million (equivalent) loan
was made to provide continued support for the wnvestment funds available for
medium and large private enterp-ises. Loan proceeds were channeled through the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for relending to Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs). The Loan is guaranteed by the Government of the
Philippines (GOP). The Loan was closed on January 14, 1993. much before the
scheduled date of January 1. 1996. and the balance of $0.45 million was disbursed
on January 14. 1993. Borrower's repayments to the Bank are current in accordance
with the amortization schedule. The last disbursement was made on January 14,
1993.
The studies, training and teebical assistance (TA) component of the
Project, financed through a grant of V 470 million (equivalent US$3.5 million)
fro the Japanese Grant Facility (TF 2462-0 PR). however, remains active and had
an undisbursed balance of V 160.65 million (about US$1.5 million). The
closing date of the Grant is January 1, 1996 and the last disbursement was made
on April 22. 1993.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary. Parts I and I}I) was prepared by
the Industry and Energy Operations Division of Country Department 1, East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office. DBP, the Apex iastitution, provided Part II and
data for Part III.
The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and
Japanese Grant Agreements; Supervision Reports, correspondence oetween the Bank
and DBP, internal Bank memoranda and economic/sector reports. S t.pplemented by
staff interviews; DBP's financial and audit reports; and subproject data provided
by DBP.



- ifi -
MLIzInlN
INDUSTRIAL IVESTMNT CREDIT P%OJECT
fLOAN 3123-PR)
OJECT        LETON REPORT
EVALUATION 8MeMARY
1.        Ob1ectives. The Project's principal objectives were to: (a) fill the
gap in the supply of term credit to medium and large private enterprises with
healthy operations and good business prospects; (b) improve credit delivery for
industry by assisting the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to carry out
its wholesale banking function of channelling term funds to retail financial
institutions; (c) broaden the scope cf financial services available to
enterprises; (d) help promote development of the capital market by introducing.
on a pilot basis. the financing of equity and quasi-equity investments by the
participating financial intermediaries (PFle); (e) support and develop, within
DBP and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), capabilities to conduct
analytical and policy-oriented studies on industrial subsectors; and (f) assist
the Government in identifying, in selected subsectors, the policy and Institu-
tional framework which would provide the correct signals and support for these
subsectors to become internationally competitive and efficient (Paras. 3.1 and
3.2).
2.        Imnlementotion Exnerience.  However. actual Implementation of the
Project significantly differed from the planned implementation il several
respects. First, the demand for credit was much higher than expected leading to
a much shorter codmitment period of only six months as compared to the planned
two year. and the actual completion period was only half of the planned five-
year. Second, the Project actually disbursed 86 percent of its loan proceeds as
credit and the remaining 14 percent for leasing; the planned disbursements were:
62 percent as credit, 23 percent for leasing, and 15 percent as equity and quasi-
equity investments.  The demand for equity investment did not materialize.
Third. the transformation of DBP from a retail bank to a predominantly wholesale
bank materialized mainly due to the sharp increased wholesale lending.
Privatization -of DBP's retail operations could not be realized because of the
restrictions in its Charter and objections raised by the Commission on Audit
(COA) .  Finally, the Project had far greater economic impact In terms of
generating incremental direct employment than projected in the staff appraisal
report (SAR)s 21,480 as compared to 5.300 jobs (Paras 5.1-5.3)
3.        Results.  (a) Achievement of Objectives. Overall. the implementation
of the project was very satisfactory. It succeeded in the transfer of term
credit In a much shorter period and with much greater economic impact (in terms
of employmet) than anticipated. The timing of the loan was ideal. given t'o
severe shortage of long term investment funds in the Philippines. Project's TA
component facilitated completion of complex subsector studies-leading to
industrial restructuring and policy reforms. (b) Imnact of Term Ctedit. DBP made
62 subloans to 35 subprojects through 13 PMil. All subloans were below the "free
limit' of US$4.0 milliong they ranged between P 2 million to P 90 million,
average being P 27 million. Most subprojects were operating in profit, while two
subprojects were incurring loss and one even ceased to operate. But DBP's all



- iv -
outstanding accounts wve  current as o. Deeember 1992. Out of 23 MPe that were
accredited under the Project, 13 Me exhausted all the funds, of which 10 were
co.mercial banks, 2 were development banks, avd 1 wag leasing and finance
company.  DPB relent to mP. mostly at 15.0 to 15.5 percents m. generally
maintalned their effective onlending rate around 21-22 percent. (c) MUJaStuta
BulldJg. DBP's transformation lto a predominantly wholesale bank wa achieved
only through increased wholesale lending. (d) Industrial RestructurinA. The
first set of five subsector studies-cement, pulp and paper, textiles, inter-
Island shipping. and ship repair-led to an Action Plan for restructuring the
subsectors under the Industrial Restructuring Project (tTP),  hieh aims at
improving the policy environment and strengthening the institutional support
structure. The second set of studies got substantially delayed; its Phase I has
been completed and the Phase II studies are expected to be completed by September
1993 (Paras. 6.1-6.7).
4.        Sustainabilitv.  The sustainability of the Institutional arrangements
made with DBP as an Apex institution needs to be qualified, although these
arrangements at the present are working well under a follow-up Bank operation,
ZIP. While the boAic structure of the arrangements seems sustainable over the
short- and medium-terms. their modus operandi needs to be reviewed in order to
address the emerging issues (e.g. DBP's continuing retail operations and Single
Borrower Limit ceilings). DBP's continued involvement in retail operations has
the potential for a confli:t of lnterest between DBP as an Apex instaitution and
PoIs; and it exposes DIP to a credit risk that could erode its capital base. The
sustainability of benefits of the subprojects is diffieilt to assess due to the
inadequacy of information (Pares. 7.1 and 7.2).
S.        Bank/lorrower Performance.  The Bank expeditiously moved during the
appraisal process. The entire loan proceeds were disbursed on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOs). Since the credit risk was borne by the PPIs
the disbursement arrangement was considered acceptsble. The Bank monitored the
implementation closely through the quarterly reporting requirements, which were
net by the DBP. The Bank also played important role in sector studies through
extensive comments on the first set of subsector studies. Moreover, the Bank
vigorously pursued the frequent nonobservance of loan covenants regarding DBP's
wholesale banking, privatization end audit reports. These efforts yielded good
results; they have deepened the Bank's understanding and enhanced its
appreciation of DBP's institutional snvironment. Finally. DBP was well staffed
to manage the Project, and it effectively marketed the loan proceeds to Mse and
subborrowers (Paras. 8.1, 8.2 and 9.1).
6.        Lessons Learned.  The main lessons learned or again confirmed, with
implications for other Bank-financed projects, ares (a) when estimating demand
for a line of credit, the Bank should carefully take Into account the prevailing
macroeconomic conditions, potential increase In credit demand due to marketing
efforts and PFI's existing pipeline of subprojects; (b) the suaedule of estimated
disbursements should reflect the project's expected schedule and not the Bank-
wide average schedule; (c) Ms are unlikely to borrow the Banks funds at a
relatively high, market-based interest rate for financing equity or quasi-equity
investments; (d) the two-tier lending operat.ons through private banks can be a
cost-effective and superior option as it reduces the risks of improper subproject
selection; and (e) the terms of reference for sector studies should be agreed
upon at an early stage of project cycle (Para 13.1).



LJlMN 3123-IGZ
PI T: PROJCT R0VI FROM AM" P P
1.        Projeet Identity
Project Noe  : Industrial Investment Credit Project (IICP)
Loan No       : 3123-PB
RP ftit       : lest Asia & Paeific
country       : Philippines
Sector          Industry
Subsector    : Private Imestment
2.           _ ak*n
2.1        Through thi £980s. the Government of the Philippines (COP) embarked
oan a broad range of strctural reforms and major stabilization asures with the
support of the World Bank (SAL-1, Loan 1903-PB, 1980 and SA-I11. Loan 2266-PB,
1983) and International Nonetary Fund. Following the crises period of 1983-86,
In which political upheaval was coubined with a worldwide debt crisis leading to
a cessation of foreign credits, the Philippine economy had a strong recowery,
largely led by the Industrial sector which grew at nin percent and contributed
33 percent of GDP and 42 percent of total merchandise exports in 1988. The
industrial sector, which was mostly private, had benafitted from the policy
reform that aled at increasing economic efficiency by reducing trade
distortins, and stimulating private sector initiative and activity. In turn,
the industrial sector was poised for rapid growth and required term credit for
investment.
2.2       The industrial policy reforms designed to improve the environment for
efficient private production and Investment were accompanied by financial sector
reform with the support of the Bank (URP. Loan 2787-PH, 1987 and F&AL, Loan
3048-PH, 1989). The financial sector reforms were abed at rehabilitating the
gvenment-owmed financial institutions, notably the Philippine National Bank and
the DBP, and making the banking sector more competitive and responsive to the
needs of the real sectors. An Important component of the reform program was to
iMprove the institutional arrangmnts for the provision of long-ter credit;
this inolved the trassfczmation of DBP into a wholesale bank and channelling
funds to the private sector through retail financial institutions. By providing
funds to DBP to help it to carry out its wholesale functions, the Industrial
Investmeat Credit Project (Loan 3123-PH, 1989) neatly fitted into the overall
strate8 for the development of country's financial sector. (See Part IIl, Table
1 for Related Bank Loans.)



-2
2.3      The Project was also a follow-up of the Industrial Finance Project
(Loan 1984-PH, 1981), designed to provide term funds to medium and large
tndustrial projects. Under this project, an Apex Development Finance Unit (ADFU)
was established as a separate unit in the Central Bank of the Philippines (CBP)
to onlend the proceeds to private sector enterprises through participating
financial iastitutions (PFIs). While the approval and disbursement targets of
this project were not met, in the face of deteriorating economic conditions and
foreign exchange risk to be assumed by subborrowers, the project had accomplidhed
its institution-building objectives. IICP was designed particularly in the light
of the above experience.
3.        Project Objectives and DescriUtion
3.1       Prolect Objectives.  The Project's principal objectives were to:
(a) fill the gap In the supply of term credit to medium and large
industrial enterprises with healthy operations and good business
prospects;
(b) Improve nredit delivery for industry by assisting DBP to carry out its
wholesale banking function of channelling term funds to retail
financial institutions;
(c) broaden the scope of financial services available to enterprises;
(d) help promote development of the capital market by introducing, on a
pilot basis, the financing of equity and quasi-equity investments by
MFls;
(e) support and develop, within DBP and the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI), capabilities to conduct analytical and policy-oriented
studies on industrial subsectors; and
(f)  assist the Government in Identifying, in selected subsectors, the
policy and institutional framework which would provide the correct
signals and support for these subsectors to become internationally
competitive and efficient.
3.2       prgject Description.  The Project included the following components:
(a) Line of Crsdit for Eauimnent and Working Canital. The Project was to
provide US$40 million for long-term financing to viable industrial
enterprises, covering plant improvements or conotruction, and
acquisition of equipment as well as the working capital associated
with the investment in plant and equipment. Incrementiil marketing and
worker training and relocation expenses were also to be covered.
(b)  Lease 'inhing,  The Project was to provide US$15 million to finance
the PFIs for the purchase of equipment which they would lease to the
subborrowers.



-3-
(a)  * lt7y and Oufasi-Euilty Thvest=nt2.   A pilot component of US$10
million was to provide financing for equity and quasL-equity
investments by the PFIs against their financing subborrowers' purchse
of equipment, goods, services and works.
(d) Studies. Training and Technical Assistance (TA). This component was
financed through a V 470 million (equivalent US$3.5 million) grant
from the Japanese Grant Facility (JOF, TF 24620). It was to finance
subsectoral studies, which would:   (1) prcvide subsector data,
analyses, and strategies that would help financial institutions assess
individual projects; and (ii) develop proposals for subsectoral
restructuring, including measures to improve the policy and
institutional framework for the selected subsectors.   Besides a
provision of consultant services, the TA compon.3nt included training
to strengthen the technical capabilities of DBP and DTI staff.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1       The Project was the third project in a series of lending operations
over a period of three years aimed at carrying forward financial sector reforms
and supporting private industrial investment in the chilippines. The project
design involved a two-tier credit system. The scope, timing and scale of the
Project were appropriate in the light of its objectives. The roles and
responsibilities of the project entities--the Apex institution (DBP) and the
Male--were clearly defined, but DBP had to be apprised of the Bank policies and
procedures for withdrawals from the Special Account during the project
supervision.
4.2       Following the advent of the new Government in 1986, the severity of
DBIPs problems and its technical bankruptcy were addressed under a program
developed in conjunction with the Bank-financed Economic Recovery Program (IRP,
Loan 2787, 1987) and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan 's..AL, Loan 3049, 1989).
IICP reinforced the expected evolution of DBP by strengthening its wholesale
lending function through provision of term funds for relending to PFIs and by
monitoring Its progress in achieving its wholesale lending targets and
inutitutional development. In its Policy Statement, accepted by the Bank, DBP
had outlined the objectives, general operational principles, investment and
financial policies, capital structure, organization and staff development,. etc.
For its Apex Unit that was responsible for implementing the Project, DBP had
prepared the Operating Policy Guidelines (OPG), accepted by the Bank, which
included accreditation criteria for PFIs, subproject eligibility criteria and
subloan size, terms and conditions for relending to mFs, onlending terms and
conditions for subborrowers, minimum loan participation by PFIs and minimUm
equity contribution by subborrowers, and conformance with the environmental laws.
Pns were responsible for administering their respective subloans.   DBP'a
monitoring of the project implemetation would focus on the accreditation of
PMs, adherence to. OPG and PFIm loan repayments.
4.3       A loan of US$65.0 million (equivalent) was made to DBP, under the
government guarantee, at the standard variable rate repayable over 20 years
(including five years of grace). DBP relent the proceeds of the Bank loan to
accredited PFIs in domestic currency at market-based rates, providing adequate
spreads over its costs. Because of a spurt in market interest rate, partly due



-4-
to Inflationary exectatlons, DIIPs releadirg rates turd out to be below the
maket rate  prveliling during 1990 and 1991 wen most project funds were
comitted. Maturities confored to the maturity of subloan, and dId not exceed
13 yers for equlpmnt subloans and leasiag, 7 years for working capital
sublos, and 10 years for the financing of equity and quasi-equIty investments.
The grace period was up to three years for equipment and workig capital
subloans, and none for lease fiancing. The PMs onlont the funds to their
subborrowers at prevailing maret interest rates. DIP established a loan account
to channel project *-:ds to rlis and to accumulate subloan repayment untll they
became due for repayment to the Bank; the funds thus accumulated would be used
for further onlending for simlar purposes and on similar conditions. The
¢overnmnt assumed the foreign exchange risk for a arket-based variable fee
payable by DBP.
4.4       The loan proceeds were used to finance 100 percent of the foreign
currency cost of directly imported goods and services, and 60 percent of local
expeaditures (corresponding to the estimated average foreign exchange content of
these item). In addition to financing investments in plant and equipment, the
Loan could finance marketing and distrlbution, and worker retraining and
relocation expenses. The MFI, which assumed the subloan credit risk, were
re-mponsble for subproject appraisal and supervision.  The minimum size for
assets of ligible inestment -enterprises (1s) was # 20 million and of subloan
was US$250,000. The maimu  subloan for any 1I by a MFF was US$6.0 million; in
the case of loan syndications, the maximum subloan size was US$8.0 million. The
lank and DIP were not expected to review an individual subproject unless it
exceeded the *free limit' of US$4.0 million.  For each subproject, ms were
required to finance at least 10 percent of the project costs from their own
funds, and an invostment enterprise was required minimum equity contribution of
20 percent. Eligible subprojects were required to yield a financial rate of
return (FIR) of at lsast 15 percent In real terms, and the equity invesatmets
were exps-ted to yield after-tax return on equity of at least 18 percent in real
ters. Subprojects that were beneficiary of high level of protection (especially
through quantitative restrictions) were ineligible for financing under the
Project. The Project did not carry region/subsector-specific restrictions.
4,5       DBP had established two Special Accounts (revolving funds):
(A) US$4.0 million account (the limit was raised to US$6.0 million in March 1990)
to fUtance the Bank's share of subloans; and (B) US$400,000 (equivalent) for TA
disbursemats from the JGF. Withdrawals froia the Loan Account and Special
Accounts were made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SO0).
5.        ProcIMZDmnt1
S.1      QritIcal Variances In Yrotect Imnlamantation. Actual implementation
of the Project significantly differed from the planned Implementation in several
respects. First, the loan was committed within six months due to a strong croeit
demand brought about by more stabl political condition. Disbursements ware
completed withln two and half years against the planned five years. (See Part
III, T. l. 3).  The SAR was very conservative In estimating the deand for
credit. The design of the project also allowed for the entire disbursements to
be made througnh statements of Expenditures (SOUs). Second, the Project actually
disbursed 86 percent of its loan proceeds as credit and the remaining 14 percent
for lasing; the planned disbursements were: 62 percent as credit, 23 percent



for leaslng, and 15 percent as equity and quasi-equlty inveostents.  No me
borrowed the Bank funds for equity and quasL-equity investments. because of DBP*s
relatively high onlending rate of usully around 15 0 to 15 * percent. Third,
transformation of DBP from a retail bank to a predominantly wholesale bank was
materialixed through lncrease In wholesale banking. Privatizatlon of DBP s retail
operatiorn did not take place because of the restrlctions in its Charter and the
objection raised by the Commission on Audit (COA) on the plan to privatize its
regional branches. Fourth, the Project had far greater economic impact in terms
of generating incrental direct employment than projected in &AR:  21,480 as
comWpared to 5,300 jobs. Flnally, BIP could not observe the Loan Agremnt
covenant regarding the (i) IDP, and (ii) furnishnlg of Its audited reports within
the *lx month period, which, in turn, was dependent on completion of audit by
COA. The Bank had repeatedly apprised DBP of its concern regarding non-
observance of the covenants  The 1991 audit report was received In October 1992
(See Part III, Table 4).
5.2       Proi.e; Rinka.   The Project did not foresee major problems in
1mlementation of DBP's IDP, especLally regarding Its wholesale banklng,
privatization program, and auditing of its accounts by a private compay. Yet,
the Project had rightly alerted that mPs mght "not be able to invest through
equLty and quasi-equity instruments. "
5.3       Actions/Decisilons  Taken  gr  Not Taken  which  Affected  Project
t  The comitments/disbursements were so rapid that DBP requested
the Bank within two months of the Project's effectiveness to increase the
Authorize Allocation in Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement from US$4 aillion to
US$8 million. But the Bank agreed to increase it to only US$6 million. This
increase belped the disbursements, though ln retrospect, it was Inadequate sinme
only US$25 milllon or 39 percent of the loan facillty were replenishment through
the Special Account, and the rest were through reibursement of DBP's advances.
DBP has estimated the *opportunity cost" of its advances to be f 2.58 million,
which It considers "as reasonable and necessary investment for establishing
itself as an efficient, credible wholesale bank". Bank's extensive comments on
the first set of flve subsector studies were helpful in finalizatLon of the
subsector reports and implementation of their recoamendatlons.
6.  Poject Result.
6.1       Alovemmt of Project Objectives.  Overall, the objectives of the
Project were achievd.  The Project succeded in the transfer of term credit In
a muh shorter period and with much greater economic impact (in terms of
employment) than anticipated. Also the projected FMR for the subprojects far
excesd the SAR's ainimum requirement; the actual PRRs are not yet available. But
the transformation of DBP as a wholesale banking Institution materialized only
due to the sharp increase in Its wholesale operatlons rather than through
privatization of Its retail operations as discussed earlier.  Project's TA
component facilitated completion of complex subsector studies--leading to
industrial restructuring and policy reforms, and helped in lmproving the
tecbnical capabilities of DBP and DTI staff to conduct such studies.



-6-
6.2       Imnact of Term Credit (a) Main Characteistial of £unrIeet.  DBP
made 62 subloans to 35 subprojects through 13 PPIs. The aggregate cost of these
subprojects actua:ly amounted to P 3,644 million (compared to their estlated
cost of P 4,094 million), of which DBP contributed P 1,692 million, or 46 percent
of the total, with IEs and PFIs making up the balance.  Out of 35 subprojects,
27 subprojects borrowed P 1,456 million (or 86 percent) as credit, and
8 subprojects used P 236 million (or 14 percent) for lease financing. The demand
for  equity  and  quasi-equity  investments  did not materialize.    Of  the
27 subborrowers, 6 were new business enterprises that borrowed P 455 million (or
31 percent), 4 enterprises borrowed P 311 milliotn (or 21 percent) for
modernization/upgrading of their plant and equipment, and 17 enterprises borrowed
P 690 million (or 48 percent) for expansion of their existing business. In
addition, entire lease financing was for expansion of existing facilities. The
Project had no restrictions in terms of industrial subsectors; the principal
beneficiaries were: metal (25 percent); beverage (20 percent); transportation,
storage and communications (13 percet.); and non-metallic mineral products (12
percent).   In terms of regional dispersonal (for which also there were no
restrictions): 15 subprojects located in the National Capital Region availed
35 percent, 7 subprojects in Southern Luzon availed 25 percent, and 4 subprojects
In Central Luzon availed 18 percent of the total funds. The subloans ranged
between P 2 million to P 90 million, average being P 27 million. (See Part III,
Tables 6.1, 6.2 and 6.5).
6.3       (b)  Performance of Subgroiects.  Only limited information is yet
available about the subproject performance. A striking feature is the level of
actual incremental employment: 21,480 jobs were directly created as compared to
17,924 estimated at the time of subproject approvals; both these levels are much
higher than the SAR estimate of 5,300 jobs.  Moreover, eight subprojects wero
able to increase their exports by P 426 million in 1991.  Out of 29 subprojects
for which information on profit is available, all except three were operating in
profit and earned P 11,810 million in 1991.   Two subprojects that had
respectively borrowed P 65 million and P 6 million, together incurred a loss of
P 7 million; one subproject that had borrowed P 70 million even ceased to operate
in September 1991 due to the power crises in Mindanso.   But DBP's total
outstanding accounts were current as of December 1992; similar information about
PFIs' accounts were awaited. The projected rates of return on equity bad a wide
:ange of 6 to 54 percent, though most were between 11 and 22 percent (See Part
III, Tables 6.4 and 6.6).
6.4       (c)  PFIs and Terms and Conditions.  23 PFIs were accredited under
IICP, but 13 PFIs exhausted all the funds. Of the 13 PFIs, 10 were commercial
banks that borrowed P 1,332 million (78.7 percent), 2 development banks borrowed
P 106 million (6.2 percent), and 1 leasing and finance company (All Asia Capital
and Trust Corporation) borrowed P 254 million (15.0 percent).   The top
three comercial banks were:   Equitable Banking Corporation, P 417 million
(24.7 percent); United Coconut Planters Bank, P 296 million (17.5 percent), of
which P 16 million will be disbursed by April 30, 1993; and Rizal Coammercial
Banking Corporation, P 205 million (12.1 percent). The main development bank wan
Planters Development Bank: P 97 million (5.7 percent). Out of 62 subloans, 31
subloans for seven subprojects were syndicated by two to six PFIs, which togetber
borrowed P 519 million (31 percent). DBP relent P 650 million (38 percent) to
PFIs at 15.0 percent interest rate for onlendlng to 13 subprojects that were
approved before December 31, 1989. Subsequently, DBP raised its relending rate,



-7-
first to 15.5 percent and later to 18.0 - 19.2 percent.   PFI8 geonrrlly
maintained their effective onlending rate around 21 - 22 percent, which provided
them a gross margin of 5 - 6 percent. The financing package by source of funding
(1ts equity, PFIs own funds, the Bank, and others) varied considerably among the
subprojects: equity ranged 20 to 67 percent, PFIs contribution 4 to 25 percent,
Bank loan proceeds 15 to 72 percent, and seven subprojects had other sources of
funds, ranging between 15 to 47 percent. (See Part III, Tables 6.3 and 6.6).
6.5       Institution Building.  The Bank had premised its onlending to the
lndustrial sector through DBP on agreements that DBP would be transformed
explicitly into a predominantly wholesale bank through both: (i) an inGrease in
wholesale lending; and (ii) the privatization of most of its retail branches.
To date, DBP has achieved this objective only through the first means and not
through the second for the reasons discussed earlier.
6.6       Industr ial Restruturing. The first set of five subsector studies--
cement, pulp and paper, textiles, inter-island shipping, and ship repair--was
completed on time and provided a basis for formulation of an Action Plan for
restructuring the subsectors.  This Action Plan, being implemented under the
Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP) of US$ 175 million, aims at improving the
policy environment and strengthening the institutional support structure.
Reports of these studies have been published by DBP to allow wider dissemination,
and are being implemented by DPB under grants/toans from several bilateral aid
agencies. The second set of studies got substantially delayed: (i) initially
because their Terms of Reference had to be modified to incorporate a comparative
assessment of subsectors in order to identify the most promising among them for
future development, and (ii) subsequently, because the Phase I draft report
required several revisions to incorporate comments of the Inter-Agency Working
Group.  The Final Report of Phase I entailed selection of eight priority
subsectors in the manufacturing sector for restructuring. Phase II involves
preparation of detailed, implementable restructuring programs for these eight
subsectors. These studies are expected to take 10 months from their schoduled
commencement in January 1993.
6.7       Staff Training.   Two training seminars/workshops on industrial
restructuring were conducted by consultants for two weeks in August 1989 and one
week in June 1990.  These were attended by 65 representatives of concerned
official agencies and industry associations. The effectiveness of the trainlng
program could not be assessed due to lack of information.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       The sistainability of the institutional arrangements made with DBP as
an Apex institution needs to be qualified, although these arrangements are
working well at the present under a follow-up Bank operation, IRP. While the
basic structure of the arrangements seems sustainable over the short- and medium-
terms, their modus operandi needs to be reviewed in order to address the emerglng
issues, such as the Single Borrower Limit ceilings with most of the major
comercial banks.  Given the significant near term demand for this type of
financing, this issue may be considered concurrently by the Bank while reviewing
DBP'a future role or other institutional options for the Official Developmnt
Assistance londing.



7.2      The ustainability of benefits of subprojects is diffiult to "s"s
due to inadequacy of the infomtilon. Although most subprojects earnd profit
in 1991. the profitability could not be assesed in relation to equity or
subproject iLnestmt (presumably adjusted for Inflatlon and vintag, etc.) due
to the paucity of data. To the extent that the projected FMi  would turn out to
be resonably close to the actual returns ln the future, the prospects for
sustaiability seem promising.
8.         rraD=e
8.1      The Bank was diligent in facilltating the project preparatlon and
expeditiously moved durlng the appraisal process. Because of the design of the
Project extensive supervlsion was needed. For example, the supervision dissions
were expected to:   (L) closely monitor DBP's efforts at domestic resource
mobilization (SAR para. 23); (LL) review fLidLig of the subsectoral studies ad
discuss their 1mplementatLon (SAR para. 27); (LiL) regularly reviLw the
accredltation of PFIs (SAR para. 28); and (iv) make perlodlc sample analysLs of
tho subloans made by PFIs bolow the *free limit (SAR para. 34). Moreover, the
Dank was expected to monitor DBP's adherence to Its IDP, OPO and Pollcy
Statement, besides reviewing the original subloan applicatLons, mall credit
evaluations and the subloan agreements. By and large this was accomplished.
However, the supervislon of the Project was carrled out concurrently wlth the
preparation, appraisal and supervision of the IMP. Since the Bank was deling
with credible private PMIs that were Livesting their own funds as well in the
sam subprojects the supervision of the Project was adequate. The Bank also
played important role In. sector studies through extensive cormmnts on the first
set of subsector studies.
8.2      The Bank, moreover, vigorously pursued the nonobservance of loan
c0vennts regarding DBP's wholesale bankLag, prlvatliation and audlt reports.
(See Part III, Table 4). These efforts yielded good results; they have deepened
Bank's understanding ankd enhancd its appreciation of DBP's practical
constraints, and are leading to crystallizatlon of Bank's optlons for future
lending in the Philippines.
9.   EKrZ  Plerformance
9.1      Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout the project period,
allowing for the constraints it faced in achieviLg its instLtution building
objectives. (See Part III, Tables 7.1 to 7.4) DBP was well staffed to manage the
Project, and it effectively marketed the loan proceeds to PFIs and subborrowrs.
As a result, it committed and disbursed the entire loan proceeds in a much
shorter period than planned. In this regard, DBP has been commended time and
again by the Bank, and presumably by the Ms and the subborrowers as well. DBP
wunrudgingly advanced its funds to Ms. for reimbursemnt of their advances to
IICP subprojects as and when the Special Account was short of funds. This
entailed additional cost to DIP, but helped it to establish ltself as an
efficient and credible wholesale bank. DIP regularly supplied the progres
reports. which concentrated on the credit component, and information about the
TA component had to be specLally requested.



-9-
10. ZxuasL Relmuahli
10.1     loth DIP and the Govrnmt               very micable and businesslike
orcking relationhip with the Bank during the entire project cycle. DM seems
to be mlate aing good relationship with PFIs and Igo. DBP has been resposive
to Bank*a queries and concerns, though the project implementation stage idicated
that certaln policy decisions or actions, agreed with the Bank, could not be
lplemaented. Yet the Bank-Borrower relationship remains cordial and healthy.
11. Consultsag Services.
11 1      The first set of subsector studies was conducted by consulting fLrm.
belonging to various countries (Denmark, Finland, Japan, Norway and UK); the
second set of studies was conducted by a foreign firm In collaboration wlth a
local consultLig firm and a business school from Denmark. The training program
was iplemented by a research institution from the U.S. Althougb the Bank did
not directly oversee the work of these consultants  the overall opinion placed
their performanc s satisfactory.
12. Project Documntation and Raa
12.1     The loan and Japanese G:sant Agreements ware appropriate for achieving
the key project objectives. The BAR provided a useful framework for the Bank and
DIP, though the project objectives should have been more precisely and expltcitly
stated. (For instance, the objectives do not specify privatizatLon of DIP's
branches.) Bank's project files had only lWited information concerning the TA
component, e* g. staff tralning program and second set of subsector studie.
Purther, the subproject data were inadequate to assess their economl performane
and Impact: meaningful relationships among project cost, profit, exports,
employment, etc. could not be worked out largely due to a lack of concordane
samg thm.  Moreover, the documentation regardlng IRP suggests that some
subproject data (e.g. 8FRs) night not have been accurately estiated. Finally,
the Bank files do not seem to have DBP's response to the Audit Observation Nmo,
wherein the Auditor had rbeonded to DBP to require real properties of the Ms
to be mortgaged to DBP to support their sublons.
13. Y ulniaua.nna
13.1      In retrospect, the maln lessons learned or again confirmed, with
implications for other sank-financed projects, are summarized below:
(a) the Bank should carefully take Into account the prevailing
macroeconomic conditions , potential Licrease in credit demand due to
marketing efforts, and MPs existing plpeline of subprojacts when
estimating credit demand for an intermediary loan;
(b) The schedule of estmatod disbursements should reflect the project's
expected schedule and not the Bank-wide average schedule;
(c)  Ms are unlikely to borrow the Bank funds at a relatlvely high.
market-based interest rate for financing equity or quasi-equity
Investments;



- 10 *
(4) tbe two-tier lending operations through private banks can be a cost
effective end supervisor option as it reduces the risks of improper
subproject selection; and
(e)  the term  of reference for sector studies should be agreed upon at an
oarly stage of project cycle.



Part II
Page 1
Idustrial Investment Credit ProJect (hIIP)
Project Completion Report
Part II
I. ProJect Description
A.  Amouit of Fund          : US 865 MM
B.  Date of implementation : November 1989
C.  ObJectives              : To  improve  investment
credit   delivery   for
industry by assistins
the Borrower to carry
out    its    wholesale
banking   function   of
channeling   funds   to
retail        financial
institutions.
To broaden the scope
of financial services
available to industrial
enterprises(I(s).
D.  Date fully committed   : June 1990
S. Approvals
(As of 66-30-92)      : F1,692   MM   for    35
proJects. Amount inclu-
des a  P23.4 MM   loan
granted    under    the
second generation fund.
F. Disbursements
(AS of 06-30-92)      : P1,676  MM or 99.1% *of
total commitments.
G. Unavailed Balance
(As of 06-30-92)      : 716  MM.  (Refers to  2
accounts,   16  MM   of
which is expected to be
released  within   this
year and the balance
for cancellation).



-12-                       Pat 1I
Pao.2
IICP-Projeot Completion Report
Page 2
Z. Regional Dispersal    : 66:35 in favor of the
countrYuide
I.  Industry Sub-
Sector Financed       : 71%  went to  4 basic
industries - metal.
beverags,  transporta-
tion, and non-metallic
mineral products.
J. ProJects Distribution
to PFIs
(As of 06-30-92)    : Commercial        Banks,
78.64%;  Leasing  and
Finance     Companies.
15. 16%;    Developmnt
Banks. 6.30%.
K. Status of Account       : All current both in the
bools of DBP and  the
PFIs.
L. Second Generation Funds
(As of 06-30-92)     : P207 MN



13-
Po 3
IMP-roJect Completion Report
PageS3
IL. IVALTION of IlUETIVI
A. Pojec Cot   o c
Loan Purposes
Ia            with the objectives of the IICP. fu
were  channelled  to accroditod PIJ  for eth  loan
purosos provided for by the proJect as follows:
Istimated        Actual
Amount    X  linancing  X
(PUN)           (PIN)
Equipmant acqulition.
plant improvements &
cnAstruction
-orking Capital         1,000    62    1.456      86
Lease Financing           376    23      236      14
Equity & Quasi-
equity investments       250    15       -       -
1,625   100    1,692    100
-SSS-  -==Z    S535S   S=S
No applications  were received for financing of
equity  and quasi-equity investments.  To cater  to
the  actual demand. the funds were reallocated for
equipment  acquisitions,  plant impro vemnts  and
working capital requirements of proJects.
B. Pro"ct Coots -
To date, 16 projects reported deviations from the
originally approved project costs. One bus company
realised  cost savings  from    prompt payment of
purcbasnd bus units. The other   proJects  incurred
cost overruns for the following reasons:
- delay   in   project  implementation  due  to
unscheduled power outages, delays in delivery of
machinery and equipment coupled with labor
related problem;
- increase in prices of bus units;
- change of equipment to be acquired into a more
sophisticated/modern equipmet, and
- increase in purchase of inventory to avail of
bulk discounts.



-14 -                       Partfl
Pa" 4
IICP-Project Completion Report
Page 4
The deviations were all given prior approvals by
DSP,, and cost overruns were shouldered by the IRs.
The   cost  savings  resulted  in  a  partial   loan
cancellation to maintain the originally approved
financing mix.
C. ProJect Schedule
In eneral, financed proJects wero given xix months
ava_lment period from date of loan approval.  These
were, however, allowed extensions of up to 12 months
depending   on   the  merit of  the   request   for
extensions.
Out of the 35 financed projects, 11 were granted
extensions. A most common reason for the delay were
documentation-related problems *either among PuIs
(syndication   and   loan   agreements,   deed    of
assignments)   or  in  registration  procedures   of
government agencies. ProJect related delays were
also encountered, i.e., late deliveries of imported
equipment thus upsetting entire timetable, or LC
negotiations  as  well as  sourcing   difficulties.
Lastly. natural calamities also had to b reckoned
with.   One project had to defer expansion  on mid-
stream, as a major typhoon severely damaged its
existing facilities.
On isolated cases, there were extensions done by DSP
as an internal arrangement. This occured when the
PYI was able to meet the disbursement requirements
before expiry of availment period, but DBP could not
fund the release due to non-availability of funds.
The problem on disbursements is discussed more
lengthily in Sections I and G.
D. Conditions and Covenants
No P1I has violated any of the loan conditions and
covenants  of  its loan agreement with    DBP.  All
outstanding  accounts are in current status.   More
importantly, the accredited Pf1s continue to show
sound and generally healthy financial condition.
On DBP's part, it has religiously adhered to its
covenant with WB/IBRD to maintain procedures and
submit  reports  that would  adequately  inform  its
funder of the progress of the project.
E. Project Benefits
1. Modernization,   upgrading   and   expansion   of
facilities of various industries.



-15-  4
IICP-Project Completion Report
Page 5
2. Foreign exchange earnings amounting to P291 N.
3. Contribution to the government in the form of
taxes totay'ng P4.8 B.
4. Employment generation for 21,480 Filipinaos.
The  overall  assessment of the  economic  benefits
can be      measured quantitatively in the economic
rate of return computations. However, this could
not be made available in this report. It will be
remembered that the ERR computation was not required
in  the   original  appraisal  reports   of   PF1I.
Estimated   (proJected)  as  well as   actual  ERR
computations are now being generated by PPIs and
shall be submitted in a separate report as soon an
available.
F. Performance of World Bank
.n Th_T)  rmeu_emt/Rep1eninhmAnt
In  the  early  withdrawals  of  the  IICP   loan
proceeds (Application Nos. 1 to 10). the DBP
experienced delays in the receipts of funds from
the World Bank. The delays were due mainly to
the following issues:
- DBP's unfamiliarity with the operations of
the special account (IICP being DBP's first
wholesale lending facility), which resulted
to   confusions   in  the   withdrawals   and
replenishments of funds between DBP's own
dollar account and the IICP Special Account
both of which are maintained at Citibank.
- Delay   in  Citibank's  furnishing   of   the
required  bank  statement for  the   special
account    to   support   DBP's   withdrawal
applications; and
- Unacceptability to World Bank of the Citicash
Manager -(CCM) printout (produced thru the
computer directly linked to Citibank Now
York)    as   support    for   replenishment
applications.
Because of the close and timely supervisiop of
Mr. Hung Kim Phung, IBRD Disbursement Officer,
DBP's handling of the Special Account was put in
order   and  the  DSP  personnel  preparing   the
withdrawal applications were apprised of the
World Bank policies and procedures for loan
withdrawal.



-1,6 -
flPC-Project Completioa Report
Page 6 
Mr. Phung required tbo openin of a now dollar
aceouAt with Citibank to whore the funds of the
IICP Special  Account  wer    consolidated   and
where   no  funds.  includg   interest ,       o
credited except for  i   replisbmnt. No also
devised   a  now  summary  *heet  (statemet  of
expeditur)    appropriate   to   IlCP   loan
withdrawals. This facilitated the preparation  of
subsequent applications fos loan withdrawals.
On the average, after the Spewial Account we put
in      order, DEP oxperienced a time gap of no
less than two (2) weeks, inclusive of transit
time. from the tine the withdrawal applications
woere aent to the World Bank to the time the funds
were- actually replenished or  reimbursed.   What
remained to be the source of delay in the
ioediate    preparation    of    requests   for
replenishment of funds to the special account was
the unavailability of the Citibank statements.
2. On, the Rtam64al Af~nwn  f~v13i$n#  n
ProJected heavy demand for funds from the PfIs
prompted DBP to request for an increase in the
funds advanced in the Special Account from 84
million  to 86 million.   The World Bank acceded
to  the  request and on April 6. 1990,  the  IICP
Special Account was credited with the additional
*2 million.
A total of *25,197,876.35 or 38.?6% of the $65
million IICP loan facility were disbursed by
World Bank through the special account, while the
rest  were  through  reimbursement  of   DBP's
advances.
The World Bank started its recovery from the
special account on March 27, 1991 and was able to
complete the process on October 30, 1991.
The IICP Special Account with Citibank, however,
wam effectively closed on September 12, 1991 when
the $100,000 minimum balance required by Citibank
was sold and reloaed to a sub-loan. Prom that
time on, the only loan withdrawal option left' to
DEP is through reimbursements.
As of July 31, 1992, the hICP loan account has an
undrawn  balance  of  US  *678,310.61  to  cover
unavailed  comitments  of  a  little  over  116
million.



-17-                      Part II
Page 7
IICP-ProJeot Completion Report
Page 7
G. Performance of DBP
1. OnCmitet
The  IICP  loan  facility  of  $65  million   was
originally estimated to yield DBP a wholesale
loan portfolio of about 01.465 billion. To date,
however, total disbursements from the facility
reached 11.652,821,745.59 mainly due to foreign
exchange differentials. In addition. the amount
of  123.4  million  from  principal   collections
(second generation fund) was already disbursed to
additional sub-projects under the program.
2. On tha Withdrawal PXopedures
Not one among the 39 loan withdrawal applications
submitted by DBP to the World Bank applied for
issuance of especial commitment. This can only be
interpreted   to  mean  that  all  the   projects
financed  under  the  IICP  did  not   experience
difficulty in opening or negotiating letters of
credit for the procurement of imported machinery
and equipment, and materials. .
On a wider perspective, DBP is inclined to view
this experience as a good indication of the
creditworthiness of the local commercial banks in
the international community.
3. n the Dishurmemgnt Pzocedures
All the disbursement requests received from PFIs
were for reimbursement of their advances to the
IICP sub-proJects.
The option for direct payment to a third party
(foreign supplier) was not resorted to because of
the following constraints:
- Timing and fixing the peso equivalent of the
disbursement on foreign currency expenditures
for   imported   equipment   and    materials
especially if it affects the amount of the
approved sub-loan;
- Documentation of the release of funds (direct
payment to foreign supplier) to the       PFI,
where  the  value  date  of  the   promissory
notes must coincide with the date when the
funds       are  actually  credited  to   the
account of the supplier; and



- 18 -                     Part 11
Page 8
IICP-ProJect Completion Report
Page 8
The   amount   and   the   date   when    the
corresponding  documentary  stamps  must   be
paid.
4. Advaces by DBP
Inspite   of  the increase in the amount  of  the
revolving   fund,   there  were   still   several
instances  when DBP had to advance funds.   Those
instances  were due to simultaneous  requests  of
PFIs for release of funds when the balance in the
special   account  was  minimal  and  while   the
application for replenishment of funds was still
pending preparation due to unavailability of the
required    Citibank   statement.  Beyond   these
reasons   was   DBP's   desire   to   honor   its
disbursement  commitments  to  the  PFIs.   This,
however, entailed additional costs to DEP.
After the disbursement transactions through the
IICP special account were regularized, DBP had to
advance from its own resources a total of 1684
million which could have been placed to higher
yielding investments.
Using the average turn around time for IBRD
reimbursement of two (2) weeks and interest
spread   of   10%  per   annum,   the   estimated
opportunity cost to DBP of those advances was
P2.58   million.  This  cost,  however,  may   be
considered as reasonable and necessary investment
of DBP in establishing itself as an efficient,
credible wholesale bank.
III. Conclusion
With the IICP as catalyst, the DBP had time and again
been   commended  by  its  clients  and   funders   for
exceptional performance as a wholesale bank. But DBP
does   not  intend  to  rest  on  its   laurels.    The
responsibilities  inherent  to its  functions  are  far
reaching.  In  both  cities  and  regions,   industrial
development  have  been  spurred   and  the   necessary
linkages have to be attended to. After IICP, wholesale
lending should be more directional.
Clamor for more wholesale funds of the same nature
continues, as evidenced by pipeline proJects of the
PFIs.   Financing for specific industries and  purposes
could likewise be tapped.
Feedback  from  PFIs  also  indicate  that  there   are
specific projects for which financing with much lower
tnan the prevailing interest rates are needed.



- 19 -                     Part II
Page 9
IICP-Prolect Completion Report
Page 9
______________________________
Given DBP's 2 1/2 years experience and track record in
wholesale banking, the bank is now in a position to
identify projects that address the critical needs of
industries, sectors, regions and the Philippine economy
as a whole.



- 20 -
Part III
Table 1
PHLIPPINE
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3123-PH)
PROJEaT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
| 0998   Industrial Investment Credit Project          1974      Closed
l_______ (IICP-I) _    ________
1120   Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project          1975     Closed
(SMI-I)
1190   2nd Industrial Investment Credit Project        1975     Closed
________   (IICP-II)
1572   3rd Industrial Investment Credit Project        1978     Closed
(IICP-III)
1727   2nd Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project      1979     Closed
____ __    {(SRII-II)   _  ,_
1903   Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-I)              1980     Closed
1984   Industrial Finance Project                      1981     Closed
2127   Textile Sector Restructuring Project            1982     Closed
2169   3rd Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project      1982     Closed
(SMI-III)
2266   2nd Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-II)         1983     Closed
2787   Economic Recovery Program Loan (ERP)            1987     Closed
2956   Program for Government Corporations             1988     Closed
3038   4th Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project      1989     Active
(SMI-IV)
3049   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)         1989     Active
3287   Industrial Restruct-uring Project (IRP)         1991     Active
3312   Cottage Enterprise Finance Project              1991     Active



- 21 -
Part III
Table 2
2. Proiect Timetable
Item LA                     Date Planned   Date Actual
1. DPC - Industrial Finance II Project
Initial Executive Project Sumwary (I8PS)             _    Mar 1987
2. Industrial Sector Restructuring Project           l
Project Identification Mission                   _         Nov 1987
Preparation Mission                                     7  Mar 1988
Review of IEPS and draft Project Brief                     M Mar 1988
3.  Industrial Finance Restructuring &
Project                                                                   l
Preparation Mission                              _         May/Jun 1988
Review of Executive Project Summary                        Oct 1988
(EPS)                                                                  l
4.  Industrial Finance Project                                                .
Project Concept Paper (Draft)                              Nov 1988
X    Pre-appraisal Mission                       _         Nov 1988
Review of Revised EPS                            _         Feb 1989
Approval of Final EPS                                      Feb 1989
Appraisal Mission                             Feb 1989    Feb/Mar 1989
Project Concept Paper                            -         Mar 1989
S. Industrial Investment Credit Project
Yellow Cover Staff Appraisal Report              -         Jun 1989
Loan Negotiations                             Jul 1989    Jul 1989
Board Approval                              Oct 3, 1989   Oct 5, 1989
Loan Signature                              Nov 9, 1989   Nov 9, 1989
Loan Effectiveness                               -         Jan 17, 1990
Project Completion Lb                       Jun 30, 1995  Jun 30, 1990
Loan Closing                                Jan 1, 1996   Jan 14, 1993
La   As indicated below, name of the Project was changed several times during
the Project Cycle, in part, to avoid confusion with Apex Units at DBP.
lb    The last date for approval of a subloan by PFIs was April 1, 1991.



- 22 -
Part III
Table 3
3. Cumulatlve Estimated and Actual Disbursements /a
Fiscal Year          Estimated Cumulative       Actual Cumulative        Actual/Estimated
(US$ mlm)                (US$ mln)                   (2)
1990                                               _   _    _    _      _
Mar 1990                          1.30                     9.53                     733
Jun 1990                         2.60                     17.88                     687
1991                                               _
Sep 1990                         6.50                     39.31                     604
Dec 1990                        10.40                     49.14                     472
Mar 1991                         14.30                    56.43                     394
Jun 1991                        18.20                     58.58                     321
il1992        __ 
a      sep 1991                    23.70                     60.29                     254
Dee 1991                        29.20                     61.11                     209
mar 1992                        34._70                    64.03                     184
Jun 1992                        40.30                     64.38                     159
1993_
Selp 1992                       43.90                     64.42                     146
Dee 1992                        47.50                     64.55                     136
Mar 1993                        51.10                     65.00                     126
Jun 1993                        54.70                                               118
1994                                        =
Sep 1993                        56.60                                               114
Dec 1993                        58.50                                               110
Mar 1994                         60.40                                              107
Jun 1994                        62.30                                               104
1995
Sep 1994                        63.00                                   _           102
Dec 1994                        63.70                                   _           101
Mar 1995                        64.40                                               100
Jun 1995                        65.00                                                99
Final Disbursement Date:   January 14, 1993.
la     ln addition,  the  ProJect vS8  cofinauced by a  grant  of V  470 million  (equivalent
US$3.50 million) under the Japan Grant Facility (Loan 24620), having a closing dste of
January 1, 1996. Todate V 276 million (equivalent US$1.97 million) have been disbursed.
leaving an undisbursed balance of V 194 million (equivalent US$1.52 million).



- 23 -                                     Part III
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
4. 8tatus of Covenants
Lam Asreman with 331 tddte  laver9, 1969)
2.02 (b)     DM sha  open and maintain Special Account acceptable to the        Cmplied
Bank.
3.01         DIP shel conduct the operatione and affrair  of the Project in    DMIP  1 well staffed to
3.02 (a)     accordanee with the Statemnt of Policy, and sound financial        manage the projet4 DU
standards and practices, with qualified maagement and              met its wholosa
personnel, nd In accordance with the Operating Policy Guide-       banking goal through
Lines (OPG) of the Project,                                        increased wholesale
opeations rathr than
through Privatisaticn
of its rtal
Operations.
3.02 (a)     DEP shall, rcland proceeds of the Loan to the PFU under separate   Complied
Subsidiary Loan Agzeemnts, satisfactory to the Bank. and not to
__________  pass on proceeds of the loan to Investment Interprises directly.
3.03         Bo expenditures tor goods, services and works required for an      Complied; there were no
Investment Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of a     sublons above the
Subsidiary Loan, Subloan or Investment shall be eUgible for        ftree liit' and
flnancing cut of the proceeds of the Loan unless the procurement   International Competi-
procedures in accordance with the Loan Agreement hav been          tive Bidding (CD) wae
followed to the satisfaction of the Bank.                          not required.
3.04        Dan shaul implement the Institutional Deveelopmet Plan              Sac Section 3.01 and
_LUgiently ,ad promptly In accordanee with its taxm               3.02Cc) above.
4.01        DUP shall maintain procedures and record  adequate to monitor       For cupilance
and zecord the progress of the Project and of each Inreetment
Project.
4.02 (a)     (i)  DBP shall have its records, accounts for financial            In compliance
atatement  and records and accounts for the Special
Accout for *eah fiscal year audited in aceordance with
sound auditing principles consistently eppUed, by an
Independent auditor acceptable to the Blak.
Uii)  DBP shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in   Audit Reports wer
any oase not later than six months after the end of each     delayed; 1991 Audit
such year: (a) certified eopies of said financial            Report was received In
statements for such year as so audited, and (b) the report   October 1992.
of suah audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have_reasonably_requested.__________
4.02 (b)     For all expenditures related to withdrawals from the loan
aceount made on the basis of Statement of ExperAitures. the DIP
shaIl:
Ci)  maintain records and accounts reflecting such                 For compliance
espenditures;
tII)  retaln, until one yeaz after the Bank has received the       For compliance
audit report for the fiscal year, alL records evidencing
expenditures.
(tii) enable Bank's representative to examine such records; and    For compliance
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are iucluded in the    In compliance
aranul audit.
4.03         CIP shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be      tn compliance
necessary to protect itself againat risk of loss resulting from
changes in the rates of exchange between the currency (including
the currency of the Guarantor) used in its operations.



-24-                                   Part III
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
4.04 (a)    DUP shll not incur any %bt. if after the Incurrence of suhb       In cospliance; the
debt the ratio of debt to equity sbell be gaeater than S to 1.   ratio remained well
below 5 to 1.
6.01 (a)    Subsidiary Loan Areements to be executed between DBP and at       Cczplied
least two PFlI acceptable to the Bank.
6.01 (b)    Opearting Policy Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank to be        In complUance
adopted and put into effect.
Schedule S                                                                    Complied, as amended In
March 1990
bauoantes    _ ret with the G6wnent (dated Rcsibae 9. 1989)
3.01        mhe Governunat assumes the foreign exchange risk In respect of    In compliance
the loan to DBP and agrees to ehar8e the latter a fee based an a
formula aeceptable to the uank.
Japanese Grant Agrenmt (dated NHy 8, 1989 as ammndd on June 8, 1989)
Usippimmita Japanee Grat Agrement ,  (dated NavinUsr 9, 1969)                _________
3.03 (a)    DBP shall maintaft records and accounts adequate to reflect       Z compliance
sound eacounting practices regarding technical assistance
h_____   expenditures.
3.03 (b)    (i)  DP shall ha  the above records and accounts for each         In complianoo
fiscal year aopriately aited, acceptable to the ank.
Cii) DwP shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in   Audit Reports 
aN  case not later than six months after the end of *aeb   delayed; 1991 Report
such yer, the report of such audit by said auditors, as    was received in October
reasonably requested by the Bank.                          1992. (Alao see Li
below.)
vg   1989 and 1990 Reports were received with a delay of six to seven months; and 1991 Report on the Special
Account and SOBs was received on September 10, 1992.
&    A Second Tranche of T 235 million was added to the original aoumt (First tranohe) of T 235 millon,
appoved under the Japaese Grant Agreement dated May 8, 1989; the closing date was extended frm December
31, 1990 to Jaury 1, 1996.



-25-
1M&M
2Tb S
ft.1d2
Negadadm                      SA                                    .
LAmingOpmdam        .        _ _  _  _  _  _               _  _  _
supevbla                     2671                 LS                  31A
Cum~hdm                                                       52
compbtio                S b                           .2
TR:'W 2''  '6.1 t                                                     7t5
f...........  :m  ; '.......s zz:  , f- . tf:f- ' ,'f- ."',X"''':'"'' ''--



- 26 -
Ptm
TS 
PA8 2 al2
maimm                     4A -          -               -d-
.   fela1                     _   ___         __                           _ __ _ __F__
t196I           2       18       Fin  ace d
NOW1990         3        7    a d __a  _and
.   .  .  .~indusq                             _
Pcb 1989        3       16        M       and
M ImnWf                Juni 191                  18       ia
-    - - --  -  - --                                                        ,.~ ~O
Ml.t VA                    Feb/19          2    19                 ----  --                 -       eu
=               m         =syu
_A   b _                  _ . -             _  _ _us   MoI_  _ a    _  L w  _ o  _ Ms a
llmlndustrySpeclstiiwfoe       n T -                                                    toly.
|                    1 s990      1          1         1 and*_  I2 
A     M    .M Jnul  3Spedall st  iw  1o  ldyonay.
Tbe&m issonfollowed up oafth. pr m of suscOwltuies tdraing and fthnednlu aastanc (IA) component cobommed
lh%b USW   mMil  (eqvaln ofY 470 |m) tena aite unde dth  a    Yen   Facdlity.
The AMisin was combined with Idenftifialof  tm Industriad Restuceturing Pn$sct (Loan 3827)
ak an_ l4e
A       Mm NW I imo   a combined with fth supemis  of the Industia Roas*trutrng Projec (tain W).



Part III
IEYELOPIEIT BNAK OF THE PUILIPPINES
INWUSTRIAL ItVESTlT CREDIT PRJECT
Indlstry SO-Sector Distrihtion of Projects Financed
As of Jue 30, 1992
Table 6.1
SU N lART                                     Page 1 of 3
ARED  IICP mhIMs
TOTAL            DISTRIIUTIONI           A V A I L n E N T S
110.    IF 1J    COST                                                             M UNAVAILED
IIISTR  8SECTOM         PROJECTS   (P'0001       tPO00)    (ito Total)    (In Pesos)        (Ito Total)      I I 3
FlO  I FOo PrOdKts               2         164,323      104,55          6.182   I04,555,000.00         6.24         0.002
0enrage  tamfcturing             S       1,545,000      340,040        20.091   340,000,000.00        20.282        0.001
Textile, Crdae & TWine           2        310,60        151,332         8.941   151,332,000.00         9.032        0.00?
liscellanous Natacturiag         1         125,000       89,943         5.32t    89,942,817.40         s.m          0.00?
Paper & Papr Products lfi.       1         27,000        18,000         1.06?    18,000,000.00          1.01       0.00
Publishing & Printing            1         20,730        10,800         0.64?     10,800,000.00        0.64X        0.00
Cheuical& Cbeuiral Products      1         138,964       91,590         5.412    79,886,321.77         4.CM        12.782
lon-letallic lineral Products    4        583,519       204,800        12.101   204,800,000.00         12.22?       0.00?
Netal Industry                   8       1,026,798      426,246        25.192   426,246,000.00        25.43?        0.00?
ElKetriCity1 Ba,  I Vater        2         63,909        29,t765        1.762    29,765,363.26          I.78t       0.001
Transprtation, Storage &         B        415,945       225,198        13.31t   220,894,243.16        13.18Z        1.91?
Caauaicatioo
T 0 T A L     35      4,421,788     1,692,229       100.001 1,676,221,745.59       100.00?        0.951
222J2s  S2a S2gS2 S3833222   2222 -~g 2n S z~::2a:2222222  22_g_Sw=    :=-t



Parc ZI!
- 28
Table 6.1
IUUTRIAL IWESTI  CREDIT PROJECT                                                             Page 2 of 3
Intutry Sub-Sector Distribution of ProJects Financed
(As o Jua  0, 1992,
TOTAL      APPROVED                      UNAVAILED
PROECT CMST  1iC  FNINS                      BAUCE
*PROPON"T                 NATURE Of POJECT     (P'OOO)      (POOOO)       AVAIUITS         I I
Fod   Food Prdcts
1.  bueg lukting Corp.        Swds protessing            24,323       16,555     16,555,000.00        0.041
2. Victoris Killing Co., Inc.   Sugar sillinq & refining    140,000    8,000     881000,000.O0        0.001
b-ITotal       164,323      104,55    104,555,000.00         0.01
--------------
Bit  Ilmaeturing
1. SIC Polo Plant             kreery odernization       315,00o       86,000-    86,000,000.00        0.001
2. i OSn Ferado Plnt          Pwr 4 service expasio   338,000         60,000     60,000,000.00        0.002
S. 31C go Famo Plant          High spuWl bottling line   S28,00       90,000     80,000,000.00        0.0t
4.     1nd    Plant           Prouct packagil           224,000       74,000     74,000,00.00         0.001
L. Cmn. Bottling Corp.        Product handling & dist.    80,000      40,000     40,000,000.00        0.001
BibT-tal     1,545,00       340,000    340,000,000.00        0.001
. .- 
Textle, CrdageA Tin
1. Aski Ttile hills tnc.      Spinning facilities        89,600       61,332     61,332,000.00        0.002
2. Sothra on YD  g Corp.      Synthetic & polyester     221,0000       OOOO      90,000,000.00        0.001
filant fabric *fg.
Sub-Total      310,60       I51,332    151,332,000.00        o.Om
- - -
hlcullas  hsfaturing
I. f.nm  Iufawris Cop.        Flexible packaging        125,000       09,943     89,942,817.40        0.0C
products aftg.
Papu 4 PewpsProducts nfo.
1. hnibx Packgigt Cii.        Cerugted cartt  teole      27,000       18000      18,000,000.00        Q.0oi
MUIMg * Printfing
1. Pulp & Papl Inc.           Papr coneion & print    20,730          10,800     10,800,000.00        0.001
C     a &   nal Prd
1. United Coot Chals, Inc. CKocheicals Afg.             138,964       91,590     79,886,321.77 *     12.7
-                              -F -_



-29-                              ~~~~~Pa tt U
-29 -
Table 6.1
Plp 3 of 3
TOTAL      APPMRE                        UNAVAILS
PMJFCT COST  ICP FUNIIN                      IN
PROPONUT              WATUE OF PROJECT     IP'00)       1P00)         AAIUIETS           1
_ _ _ _ _         -                 -            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------- - --
Non-Metallic Mineral Products
1. Solac tktg. Corp./ Uni-lpel  Oriented polypropylene  120,219       30,0°0     30,00000000          0.00t
Industries           sheets *fg.
2. Union Glass   Container Corp. Glass container ntg.    68,000       20,000     20,00000.00          0.00
3. First epanto Carporatior    Glazed ceraic tile *fg..  253,300      90,000     90,00,000.0          0.001
4. Ryal Tern Ceraics Phils., lAcCeradcs .fg.            142,000       64,800     64,00,000.0          0.00
Sub-Total      503,519   204,800.00    204,800,000.00        0.00O
etal Industry
1. Benquet Mbnagement Corp.   Foundry                   101,316       52,002     52,002,000.00        0.00?
2. Phelps Dodge Phil. Inc.    Electric wires & cables    131,900      70,000     70,000,00.00         0.00
3. Metro Alloy Corp.          Ferro-alloy production    274,707       72,0o0     72,000,000.C0        0.001
4. Mindanao Ferroallty Corp.  Ferrsilicon atg.          187,431       70,000     70,000,000.00        0.00?
S. Kudos Netal Corp.          Steel & iron bars fabric    45,063      22,794     22,794,000.00        0.00O
6. Associated Wire Corp. of the PhElectric vire & cables  37,300      26,05      24,050,000.00        0.
7. Peninsula Steel NIfg. Corp.    0eforeed steel bars *fg.   187,281  0,000      "90,000,000.00       0.00t
8. tonics Circuits, Inc.      Seai-conductor hybrid      61,0l0       23,00      23,400,000.00        0.00
asseeblies Iog.
Sub-Total     1,026,798     426,246    426,246,000.00        0.001
Electricity, Gas & Vater
1. Visayan Electric Co., Inc.    Electric pwr distribut    45,750     19,765     19,765,363.26        0.00?
2. Prtce Ga   Inc.            Oyg  plant exansion        18,159       10,OO0     to1,000,00.0         0.001
Sub-Total       63,909       29,765     29,J76,363.24        0.001
Trasportatin, Storage & Cowaicatiomn
1. JAN Trait, Int.            Land transport             40,105       20,30      20S,0,000.00         0.00?
2. Phil. Rbit Jus Lims, Inc.  Land transport            110p0 -       77,40      77,49,000.00         U.ov
3. Victory Liner, Inc.        Land transport             34,800       25,000     25,000,000.00        0.00t
4. Tritran, Inc.              Land transwrt              25,400       13,288     13,7,4"0.00          0.0
5. MOrthern Mindanao Tns. Co., ISbippig                  19,000       10000      10000000.00          0.M00
6. Iilliao Nichael Shipping Corp. Shipping               10,260        6,000      6,000,000.00        0.0U2
7. Phil. Telegraph *     Tlon CorTeloun ations           43,500       30,000     30,0000000.00    0    .001
8. Uhreouse, Inc.               arehoing                133,000       42,840     33,53,03.14         10.
Sub-Total      415,945      225,18    220,894,23.1           1.91
T 0 T A I     4,421,188    1,6,2229   1,676,221t745.59       04.1
.      .        _mmuas                           -



Part III
Table 6.2
DEVELOPNENT BANK OF THE  PMILIPPINES                                      Page  1 of  3
INOUMVrIAL INVESTEN4T cREolT PROJECT
Regional Dispersal of Projects Financed
As of hJwe 30, 192
S U A 1t A R Y
APPROVED lICP ftPKOS
TOTAL               DISTRIBUT1ON               A V A I L A E N T S
No. OF     PROJECT COT                                                                       W ,  I3NAVAILED
a E 6 I O N .        PROECTS        (POOO            WPOOO     IZ to Total)      (In Pesos)       12 to Total)         I)
III -  Central Ltaon               4         1,163561         307,49           18.17?    307,490,000.00          18.34?         $.COZ
National Capital Region                      1,404,628        586,829          34.68X    582,525,420.56          34.75Z         0.73Z 
IV - SoUthOrA Luzon                7          "909969         431,590          25.502    419$88S5961.77          25.051         2.71?
VI - Wstern visayas                I           14O,000         8B,000           5.20?     88,04,000.08            5.25?         0.00?
VII - C.ntrdl Visayas              4           304,333        116,320           6.873    116,320,363.26           6.942         0.002
I -  orthern Nindinao              2           293,707         92,000           4.8$      82,100,000.00           4.89          0.0OOX
21 - Suthern Nindanao              1            18,159         10,OO0           0.592     IC.,000,000.00          0.602         0.00?
III - Central Nindanao             I           187,431         70,000           4.14      70,0,000.00             4.18?         0.001
T 0 1 A L         35         4)42t,788       t,692t229        100.00;  t,676,22V,745.59          100.00?        0.95?
tt::: s-esss:       ::S2::    ::S::S:: 2 ::2=:=S2_:==2                              ;55



- 31 -                                          wP,art II
Table 6.2
Page 2 of 3
INDUTRIAL INVESTMENT CREIIT PROJECT
Reional Dispersal of Projects Financed
(As of Jam 30, 192)
TOTAL       APROVEJ                       .  AVAILED
PROJECT cOst tIIC? FUDIS                      SAL
PRMOENI            AREA Of OPERATIOLOCATION   WP'000)         tPOO)        AIAIERtS           I I
Region III - tentral Luzon
1. Pbil. Rabbit us Lines, Inc.Tarlac, Tarlac/ orthestern    110,280         77,490     77,490,000.00          0.001
Luzon Area
2. SC San Fernando Plant      San Frnando,  pang.            528,000        10,000     80,000,000.0           0.002
3. S1C San Fernando Plant     San Fernando, Pupanga          338,000        60,00      60,000,000.00          0.002
4. Peninsula Steel Mfq. Corp. Meycauayan, iulacan            187,281        90s000     90,000,000.00          0.002
SUB-TOTAL       1,163,561       307,O49    307,490,000.00          0.00
National Capital kegion
1. SMC Polo Plant             Valenzuela, metro Manila       375,000        86,000     86,000,000.00          0.00O
2. Kudos Metal Corp.          Kalookan City                   45,063        22,794     22,794,000.00    *    0.002
3. Pulp & Paper Inc.          Kalookan City                   20,730        10,800     10,800,000.00          0.002
4. Soluac INktg. Corp./ Uni-lpelNovwliches, Quezon City      120,219        30,000     30,000,000.00          0.002
Industries
5. Unibox Packaging Corp.     Baesa, Quezon City              27,000        19,Q00     18,000,000.00          0.00Z
6. Phelps Dodge Phil. Inc.    Nandaluyong, Metro uanila      131,900        70,000     70,000,000.00          0.00Z
7. Denguet Mgut. Corp.        Randaluyong, Metro Yanila-     101,316        52,002     52,002,000.00          0.001
8. Union Glass & Container CorpPasiq, Metro Hanila            68,000        20,000     20,000,000.00          0.002
9. Associated Vire Corp. of thW asig, Metro Manila            37,300        26,050     26,050,000.00          0.00O
10.Cossas Bottling Corp.      Metro Manila to Northern Luz    80,000        0,000      40,000,000.00         0.00O
& Bicol Region
1l.Victory  iner, Inc.        Metro Maila to & fros           34,800       25,000      25,000,000.00         0.002
0aguio, Pangasinan, Oataan
and Zaubales
12.Flexo Mnufacturing Corp.  Valenzuela, Netro Manila        125,000        89,943     89)942,817.40          0.002
13.Phil. Telegraph & Telephone Legaspi Village, Makati, MM    43,50         30,000     30,000,000.00          0.00O
14.U-Narenouse, Inc.         Paranaque, Metro Manila        133,000        42,840     38,536,603.16         10.052
15.I1amis Circuits, Inc.      Pasong Taom Ext., Nakati, MN    61,800        23,400     23,400,000.00          0,00I
SUB-TOTAL       .1,404,628      596,829    382,525,420.56          0.732
Region IV - Southen Luzon
1. Asia Textile Hills Inc.    Caluba Laguna & Movaliches      99,600        61,332     61,332,000.00          0.00O
2. First Lepanto Corp.        Calaba, Laguna                 253,300        90,000     90,000,000.00          0,OOZ
3. Sothern Due Yeong Corp.   Calamba, Laguna                 221,000        90,000     90,000,000.00          0.00O
4. United Coonut Cheicals, ln8uan, Batangas                  139,964        91,5o0     79,886,321.77         12.781
5. Tritran, Inc.              linan, Laguna/ Laguna           25,000        13,022     13,287,640.00          0.002
Satangas to & from Maila
6. JAM Transit, lnc.          San Pedro, Lagunal Laguna       40,105        20,590     20,580,000.00          0.00o
Satangas to & fra Huanila
7. Royal Tern Ceratics Pnils., fien. Trias, Cavite            142,000       64,800     64,800,000.00          0.002
SU8-TOTAL         909,969       431,590    419,985,961.77          2.71X



- 32-                                           tart -I
Table 6.2
Page 3 of 3
TOTAL       APMV                          UNAVAILED
PRWECT COST  IICP fUNDINS                      LAE
PROPONENT          AEA OF OPERATIUNILOCATION    {P'o)       (P'oO)        AVAILN1 TS          I )
Region VI - Weter Visyes
1. Victories Willing Co., Inc. Victoriss, Ngros kcidental   140,000      8,"         88,000,000.0*         0.00?
tioo VIl - Central Visays
1. MIlliu Nichael Shipping CorCebu City                     10,260        4,000       6,0001,vu.00        0.002
2. Shederq Nareting Corp.   Pamt, Mndawe City               24,323        16555      16,t55,000.00         0.002
3. SIIC  anmwe Plant         Nandae, Cebu                  224,000        74,000     74,000,000.00         0.002
4. VisaMn £1ectric Co., Inc. CeW, Nandu  City and           45,750        19,765     19,765,363.26         0.002
suromunding uicipaitu
SON-TOTAL         304,333      116,320    116,320,363.26         0.002
Regin I - Northe  Nindmow,
1. NorthMr lindao Trmns.Co.Iligam  DKolod Route            1t,000        10,000     10,000,000.00        0.002
2. Metro  lloy Corp.         Phivide  Industrial Estate,    274,707       72,000     72,000,010.00         0.00O
Tqaloa, Nisais Oriental
Y-TOTAL          m29,           82,000     82,000,000.00         0.001
Region U- outhern Ninduo
1. Pryce ge Inc.             hby, Davao city                18,159        10,000     10,000,000.00         0.00?
Rein Sit - Cetral Mind..
1. Nioua F eroaloy Corp.  hur, Iligan                      187,431       70,000      70,000,000.00         0.00
-  A L 4,42978  1-2229    945 -             -
t O tA 1        4,421,19     1,49,22    1,&76,22,74L             0.90
-      uauuaua             _     _uuaa



33 -
Part U!
NVLUIENT  D        IF  1HE PIN ILI WINS
I_I IAL  INVESTE    CE1IT  FIECT
Finne       octs  Distribution  to  Pfis
h ot luw 30, am
Table 6.3
FUDIN             toto
PMTICIPATINS FINNCIAL INSTITUTIUN       I P000 I        Total          AVAILOTS            Total
All Asia CapitallI Trust Corporation  .      254,188        15.021       234,h88,003&          15.16
Asiatrust eelopmnt anak                        9,000.        0.53          9,000,000.00         0.54
China hnking Corporation                     134,000         7.92M       134,000,000.00         7.*
Citytrust Ratng Corporation                   70,000         4.142        70,000,000.00         4.102
E1uitable Banking Corporation                417,475        24.67?       417,474,017.40        24.912
Far East Dak & Trust Cony                     46,555         2.7a         46u,55,oqo.o         2.M82
Philippin Comrcial International Bak          35,000         2.072        35,000,000.00        2.092
Planters levelopment Dak                      96,94          5.71         %9,594,00.00         5.76U
Rizal  ercial Banking Corporation            204,           12.111       204,985,000.00        12.23M
Solidank Corporation                          30,000         I.m7         30,000,000.00         I.M
The International Corporate Bak               68,002         4.022        68,002,000.10        4.062
Union ank of the Philippins                   30,000         L.m          30,000,000.00        L.m
United Coconut Planters lank                 296,430        17.522       280,422,924.93       16.73Z
T 0 T A L             1,692,229       100.002     1,676,221,74.59        100.002
umaauu        uammm
Comercial Banks                      1,332,447        78.742     1,316,439,7.33         78.542
Developent Bn.ks                       105,594         &.24!       105,594,000.00        6.302
Leing & Finance Company.               254,198        15.022       254,9l8,003.26       15.162
T 0 T A L             1,692,229       100.002     1,676,221,745.59      10.002
um m.         mam 



34 
Part III
IsIEOPU   DN Oa THE PUII.IPINES                                        b      6.
Table 6.64
IKTRIAL tKST  CREDIT PROECT                                          Page 1 of 2
* Dlsbugeaent /  fav._t Iluitor
as  Jof   e 30 IM
APPROVAL       TFFt                                                                                MAL RCIPAL
A. SUIIRMY
1,144,09,1742.33    16,007,075.07    7,737,943.29
Lase                                                               236,123,003.26             0.00  117,525,216.50
T 0 T A L               1,66,221,745.59      16,00,O75.07  205,263,179.79
8.2 LOA
*   IICPOO     WICP0          Southern he Veon Coro.                90,000,000.00             0.00   10,719,714.34
t   IICP-02       AACTC           Victories Hillinv9CO., oc.            30,000,00000              0.00    J,SOO,520.OO
I  IICP-002A      COC                     - do -                        58,000,000.00             0.00   14,140,020.46
IIUF-00        AACTC          Union Glass & Container Corp.         20,0001000:0              0.00    3,955,245.98
t  i-00?7         ATC            S7C San Ferando Plant                 20,000,000.00              0.00
I  IlCF-007A      ADS                     - do -                        2,000,000.00              0.00
S  .ICP-00?8       DC                     - do -                        18,000,000.00            O.00
t   IICP07C       fog                     - do -                        6,000,000.00              O.00
t  lICP-007D      RC                      - do -                       18,000,000.00              0.00
t  IICP-O07E      C8C                     - do -                       16,000,000.00             0.00
t  IICP-0         AACTC          SIC San Fernando Plant                1,000,000.00             0.00
I  IICP-008A      ANS                     - do -                        2,000,000.00              0.00
IIUCP-08           C                     - do -                       15,500,000.00             0.00
IIUP-G           POO                     -o -                          6,000,000.00              0.00
*  IICP-0088      aCBC                    - do -                       15,500,000.00             0.00
I  IICP-00E       cac                     - do -                       10,000,000.1 00.00
S  IICP-0         AAC TE             Plo Plant                          5,000,000.1               0,O
S   ItC-009A      A0D                 - do -                            3,000,000.00             0.00
I  I CP-00I       DIC                 -do-                             30,504000.00              0.00
I  I CPO9C        FOB                 - do -                            7,00000000.              0.00
t  IICP0d0 IIUCEC                     -Go-
I   IICP09E       CmC                 - do -                           30,000,  .00              0.00
t  IP010          AACTC           IC Ifandue Plant                      8000  .S00               0.00
I  IICP-OOA       ADS                 - do -                            2,000,000.00             0.00
I  IICP-OlI       ERC                 - do -                           24,000,000.00             0.00
S   ICP-OiOC      m                   - do -                            6,0,000.00                0.00
t.  ICP-OlD       RCMIC               - do -                           24,000,000.00             0.00
t  tiC-OIQE       CeC                 - do -                            10,0,000.00               O.O
IICP-014      BeC            Asia Textile Hills, Inc.               1,332 000.00              0.00
IICP-O1Z       Ica            illil lichael Shfapino CorP.          6, 000.00                 0.00      930,339.46
iCP-016        FE0TC         Sluac Aktg. Corp./UInipel fld.        0,000,0.00                0.00    8,030,35.26
I   IICP-017      U9P            First Lepanto Corporation             30,000,000.00              0.00
t  IICP-01?A      CRC                     - do -                       30,000,000.00             0.00
I   IICF-0179     SIC                     - do -                       30,0,000.00                0.00
I  IIP-O18         MC               da    Femalloy -                   35,00,r000000              0.00    4,380,509.86
1  IICP-O1A8      aCIa - do - o35000,000.00                                                      0.00    5s33,33.2
ttt IICP-019      RCBC            anaaue Steel Corporation                      0.00              0.00
ltCP-020       OTBC          Phelps kodge Philigg Ines, Inc.       70,000;000.00              0.0    9,983,348.93
IICP-021      FEBTC          Sheoeraq   rketin Corporation         16,555,000.00              0.00    3,815,092.68
IICP-022       Pa            Kudos lltal Corporation               22,794,000.00              0.00    2,511,974.70
IICP-023      P0B            Uni Packaging Corporation              18,000,000.00             0.00    2,543,875.80
IICP-024       lCe           Senguet hnagumnt Corporation          52,002,000.00              0.00    4,900,173.40
IICP-025       itu Pa, l                                            0,00.0.0                  0.00    2941,176.45
I;CP-026      POO                                                  '0Pp.n.OO.00               0.0     1,5S8,344.70
IICP-027      UCPB           detro Alloy Corporation                72,000,000.00             0.00
IICP-028       VS            Associated hire Corporation of        26,050,000.00              0.00    2,133,333.34
IICP-029       CPB           United Cocmt Cheucals, Inc.            9,8B6,321.77     11,703,678.23
iCF-0,3'      EIC            Peninsuia Steel  fg. Corp.            70,000000.00               0.00
tt  L1CP-031A     EiiF                        - do -                   20,000,000.00             0.00
IIC-0O32      ES             Fleza Inufacturiag Corp.               89,42,817.40              0.00
IICPf-034      VS            U-karenouse  Inc.                      38,536,603.16     4,303,396.84    2,752,614.53
lICP-035        C            Royal tern IeraGics Phils.,Inc.       64,800,000.00              0.00
I!CP-0a7       E3C           Ionics Circuits, Inc.                  23,400,000.00             0.00
kb-Total                1,440,08,742.3:     16,007,075.07   87,737,963.21



- 35                                              Part IU
Table 6.4
Page 2 of 2
AOVAL                                                                                                 TOTAL PRINCIPAL
CODE           i?i s                 PROP, -   OT                 AVAIUETS       UNAVAILED BALANCE   rEAYMNTS
.  Il LEASE
I   IICP-003       AACT' C        Cosmos  ttling Curp.                   20,000,000.60               0.00   14,769,192.46
*ItCP-003A        QPBo                    - do -                          20,000,000.0               0.00     9,893,090.S5
IICP-004          ACTC           Phil. Rabbit Bus Lines, Inc.           21,555,000.0                0.00    15,9O0,0jj.16
IICP-00           RCC                    - do -                         55,935,000.00               0.00   23,97,2J.31
IICP-005       AACTC          JAN Transit, lnc.                      20,580,000.00               0.00    I    I,2?,319.
IICP-01l       ACTC           Visan Eletric Co., lnc.                1,765,363.26                0.00    5,4l32.45
IICP0412       AACTC          NWrther Nkadanao Trans.Co.,Inc.         10,0,000.00                                2.45
IUCP-013       AACTC          Tritran, Enc.                           13,287,640.00              0.0
1ICP-03        AAMT           Victory  ie    lc                                                                7163
UCP-030        AACTC          Phil. Teliner, Enc.                    25,000,000.00               0.00    3,779,486.97
E1s433   A^TC        Phil. elegraph & Telephone Cop         i30,00,000.00               -.i     3J9".9
Sub-Total                  236,123,003.26              0.00   117,525,216.50
T 0 T A L                1,676,221,745.59      16,007,075.07  205,263,179.79
8 Syndication
St Additional loan
Us Vitfdra n Novuwber 9, 1990.
Corrufspooing amounts ntt
included in the total..



- 36 -
3;;~~~ I         1- =-- ---I
I s * |        |      
_~               ~~~~~ aaa       ;1-
-l -   -  -  - -
-    | t a s                              I  
_ XI        ii l l iii I        I 1tsa   1111113
e~~-                      - - - e.i 9""



- 37 -
l I    A        132 |;la la1-1 | I
] E - - a - a 3 3 - - 
U    saE sRR - - - - - - -l -
3ji  ____ _ _____  3 
|N   1            -r !  ,  - _  -      
f E         l   __ i        511 X
1F1 XU10~~~~~~~
,} .IsiliXBEX11 t1 ts1 



- 38 -
I ! E ii   a __~a_    
L IcI a .; a       aR_ _
jEi__3_23nB33 3 _   g
a  -    ~~~--;-T  --- --E
|~~ I} ti ni *|l I i hEMs
','~~~~ - il _- -i _ - _ _ - i  S _
EE~~~-- S    



- 39 -
3s t~~~~~~~~i
P             1~P
<t    ~~~~~~~~4 6 3  l
s >   ~_ a  X 
9!               *  s1   
WS11s ? ilXllllllt
<   i"8|i



ibe
_ _    _  _    _     _  _ _  _ _  _     _  l  _ _             £
__ -_ ____*_   __            _    _  mmL** _
4 w 
am                   no
L#JA______ 7         _A=                                     SG_____  -  6"*
mettom_ i.                                                            ea       ma         aa        .      a.
U-_a&amobaIm         K*"M_k             AA                    u       Mf       a"          I"O*
_* .N-                                  asg
_~~*_m                              24
am                   A"
Cm                                       -as



- 41 -
-        - i           - --L- _ ___
__ __ - 3- -a--a - I
l       -a3R      - - 3 - a   -a  -;  __ a
EI   i S    I §IR    fl    g              
41~~~ a; a
fA    ____W



li  C   =i:Fgg =-  lil -  ---  =  m  -
,'!          I    .EIfI#f:   ii
[~ _ __8__I__      
Z     tt



-43 -
Par III
Table Me
DEVELOPENT AW  OF TIE PII INEILIbI
BALANCE SHEETS  1987-1M
IIn llillon Pesos)
<- ACTUAL --)   P
1987    198.  198'9?       W  1990  I1      192      1992
ASSETS
Current
Cash and lue iroe bnks                me      1115    1143      1492    3390      4910    4758
Investents in scurities              4223    4275    2762       3457     5622    0246      5498
AccouAts recble and others             16       13       12       15       1B       22      267
Sbort-tere advances & loans          1099      8985    1602     1835     1916     186t    2396
Current uaturities of tere lons      1851     1774    2062      1544     2420     3076    3903
Total Current Assets              6047     8142    7581      0343    133      18117   1612
Lono-term
Loas                                 3752     4314    4235      7045    11044    14033    17810
Provision for doubtful accounts    -2307   -1968   -1880   -1221         -873    -720    -868
Inv. in bondslaquitiesl.debenturis    633      388      387     1230     1400     *661    1300
Fixed assets Iffet)                   214      242      288      306      316      313      415
Other assets                          193      313      711     1449     1758     1916    1965
236
Total Long-Tern Assets            2485     3289    3741      9809    13645    16203    20622
TOTAL ASSETS                          10532    11431    11322    17152   27,011.  34320    37444
LIABILITIES & STOCK1OLDERS EQUITY
Curent
Deposits                              520     1837     2564     3960     7703    10743    9245
Accounts payable and accr. exp.      2184      S56     1506     2302     3321     3550    2935
Short-tero borrowings                  46        0        7      327       44       40       54
Current maturities of LT borrow.      682      221      218      244       47      130      178
Total Current Liabilities         3432     3614     4295     6933    11115    14463   12312
Long-Tern
Tine and special deposits             458      326       79     1215     2020     2276     1959
Deferred credits                      341      276      204      199      191      357      385
Special funds                        1946     1419       18      141      140      140      140
Long-ters berrowings                  894      689      471     1894     6295     9082    14022
'Total Long-term Liabilities       3639     2710      m       3449    8U46    11855   16506
Total Liabilities                 7071     6324    5067    10282    19161    26319    2988l
NET VORTH
Paid-in capital                      2500     2500    2500      2500     5000     5000     5000
Retained earnings                     961     2607    3755      4370     2250     3002    3626
Total Net Nortth                  3461     5107     6255     6870     7250     80C2    8626
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET NORTH         10532    11431    11322    17152    27011    34320    37444
0       0         0        0        0        0        0



_ 44i _                                                 Part III
Table 7.2,
IELEEOPlERT UAL9 OF tHE PHILIPPINES
INC4IE STMAEI   S  197-1992
tln NIllion Pesos)
( -             A CTUALt ---> PCLMJECTED
1987     1999     199       190      199       192      192
Interest on loans andi adadvancis         3        796      960      1442     2325      1474     381
Ekrning  on ftuds & seurities             i8       47t       574       63     1190       U4      1417
Other inc.e                               426     1303       416      423      359       345      466
total Incate           .                 1777     2569      1950     2728     3974      266      5764
IPEXS
Finnciml eXpeses                          253      214      227       526     1399      1207     2656
Salaries & other personnel expenses       265      292      294       433      454       229      579
Depreciation                               24       34       34        51       61        22       86
Provision for doubtful accounts           135        0         0        1       18         0        0
Provision ior probable expenses            10        5       23         5        5         6        5
Other administrative expenses             278      339      271       375      427       269      699
Total Expeases                           965       884      849      1391     2364      1733     4025
Net Operating Ircoes                      912     1685      1101     1337     1510       9S0     1739
Shtre in Net Incoa  of Equity lnv .         1        0        2         2        4.        0        0
813     1685      1103     1339     1514       950     1739
Provision for Incore Tax                   30       37        33       55       72         0       75
Final Tax Paid                              0        0         0      232      258       197      288
NET INCONE FOR THE PERIOD                 783     1648     1070      1052     1194       753     1376



- 4 5               ~                            Part M.
Table 7.3
DEVELOPIENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
FINANCIAL INOICATORS
(In Nillion Pius)
, ( - -- -    A C I U A L         ----->           PROJECEID
1997     198       1999     1990     1991      1        19l2
1.   Return on Ave. Equity (2)         25.51S   38.472   18.83Z   16.032   16.7TZ   19.752   17.33Z
2.   Return on Ave. Assets (I)          7.82X   15.01I    9.41U    7.392    5.362    4.912    4.272
3.   Net vwrthltotal Assets (2)        32.816    44.608   55.252   40.052   26.84?   23.322   23.042
4.   DebtlEquity lx)                    2.04      1.24     0.81      1.50     2.73      3.29     3.34
5.   Netorth/Risk Assets (2)           85.022   93.65£   94.122   62.9"9    45.532   42.242   34.34Z
6.   Current Ratio (x)                  2.34      2.25     1.77      1.22     1.20      1.25     1.37
7.   Liquid Assetsleposits (2)        638.752  265.192  166.02?  114.762  110.802  115.702  110.00Z
B.   Interest on loins & advances
to Gross Incose                  37.312   30.9B2   49.232   52.86X   60.022   54.942   67.332
9.   Administrative Expenses to
Bross Income                  40.072   26.092   31.902   31.712   24.91. 19.602   23.752
10.  Operating Expenses to
Cross Income                  54.311   34.411   43.542   50.99X   61.022   64.5    69.832 M
It.  Nholesale : Retail Ratio               0        0        0        19       38        42       53



-46 -                                  Part III
Table 7.4
DEVELOPNT ZBANK OF THE PEILIPPMIES
Resource Mobilization: Domestic and Foreign 1987 - 1992
(thousand pesos)
6. Domstic Currency Desou.e Ibbiliaation
Ju 30,
iii  im    1!1        Wi        ~~~~~ ~~1991  1992
uit L,^l
Savings bposit   270,410   1,,745       512,194   2,103,179   4,172,159   4,969984
Tise eposit     706,134     6,366   2,028,761   1,355,540   2,209,515   4,273,593
venand Deposit                -                    93?,737   1,407,091   1,482,965
--                       -              * *     -
976,544   2,153,111   2,541,3   4,398,456   7,78B,765  10,726,5421
SUugs   u;suam        ga:   suuna    _sa: ~
6. Foreisn Currency Resource Mobilization
under our FCDU operations:
Jue 30,
111       1!flIt                  1990       19912
it lewl
Savings Deposit    -          -        109,608     91,311     191,606    301,051
Tise Deposit       -          -         51,150    154,375     367,723    388,124
-         -           X160,75  245,696    559,329     609,175
* Figures on domestic deposit levels are based on daily
reports   submitted  by  the  branches  and   the   Cash
Management Department.



