Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3123 PH
              (Industrial Investment Credit Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
                      Dated November 9, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3123 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 9, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Republic of  the  Philippines (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having  been  satisfied  as  to  the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower has received  from  the Government of Japan
(Japan) a grant (the  Grant)  in  an  amount of Yen 235,000,000 to
assist in  financing  Part  B  of  the  Project  on  the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in an agreement  dated May 8, 1989 (the Japan
Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and Japan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Charter"  means  the  charter  of  the  Borrower  dated
December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Institutional Development Plan" means the Institutional
Development Plan  dated  March  17,  1989,  as  such  plan  may be
modified by the Borrower with the concurrence of the Bank;
     (c)  "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made  or  proposed  to  be   made  by  a  Participating  Financial
Institution out  of  the  proceeds  of  a  Subsidiary  Loan  in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
     (d)  "Investment Enterprise(s)" means  enterprise(s) to which
a Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made
a Sub-loan  or  in  which  it  proposes  to  make  or  has made an
Investment;
     (e)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;
     (f)  "Participating  Financial   Institution(s)"  means  such
financial institution(s) as may be  accredited by the Borrower for
participation in the Project;
     (g)  "Operating  Policy  Guidelines"   means  the  guidelines
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Statement  of  Policy"   means   the  policy  statement
specifying   the   Borrower's   objectives,   general  operational
principles,  investment   policies,   financial  prudence  limits,
financial policy  and  capital  structure,  and  the  statement of
lending and investment policy  approved  by the Board of Directors
of the Borrower on April 5, 1989;
     (j)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Financial  Institution  out  of  the  proceeds  of a
Subsidiary Loan  to  an  Investment  Enterprise  for an Investment
Project; "Free-limit Sub-loan" means  a Sub-loan for an Investment
Project in an amount  to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan  which  shall  not  exceed  the  sum of $4,000,000
equivalent, when added to  any  other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan;
Page  3
     (k)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the amount made available by the
Borrower  to  a  Participating  Financial  Institution  under  the
provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     (l)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement(s)"  means agreement(s) to be
entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  Participating Financial
Institution(s) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent  to   the   amount   of   sixty-five   million  dollars
($65,000,000) as the sum  of  withdrawals  of  the proceeds of the
Loan with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank  as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall so  agree,  to  be  paid)  by  the  Borrower  on  account of
withdrawals made by an  Investment  Enterprise under a Sub-loan or
Investment to  meet  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods and services
required for  the  Investment  Project  in  respect  of  which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in  a  bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be January 1, 1996 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
Page  4
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower and the
          Guarantor  of   the   Cost   of   Qualified  Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, in accordance with the Charter
and the Statement of Policy, carry  out the Project and cause each
Participating Financial Institution  to  carry  out  Part A of the
Project and conduct its operations  and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management
and personnel.
     Section 3.02. (a) The  Borrower  shall relend the proceeds of
the  Loan  to  the   Participating  Financial  Institutions  under
separate Subsidiary Loan Agreements,  satisfactory to the Bank, to
be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  each Participating
Financial Institution as such agreements  may be amended from time
to time with  the  concurrence  of  the  Bank,  for the purpose of
onlending the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to Investment Enter-
prises in  accordance  with  the  provisions  hereof. The Borrower
shall not in any way pass  on  the proceeds of the Loan to Invest-
ment Enterprises directly and  shall ensure that the Participating
Financial  Institutions  do  not   onlend   the  proceeds  of  the
Subsidiary Loans  for  ineligible  sub-sectors  identified  by the
Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower  undertakes  that,  unless  the  Bank shall
otherwise agree, each Subsidiary  Loan and Sub-loan and Investment
will  be  made  or  caused  to  be  made  in  accordance  with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
Page  5
to in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  adhere  to  the  Operating  Policy
Guidelines for the operation of  the Project. The Operating Policy
Guidelines shall, inter alia,  contain  those matters as set forth
or referred to in Paragraph 3  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
such other matters as may be  mutually agreed upon by the Bank and
the Borrower from time to time.
     (d)  The Borrower  shall  cause  each Participating Financial
Institution to exercise its rights  in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower  and  the  Participating Financial Institution;
(ii)  comply  with  its  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 3.03. No expenditures  for  goods, services and works
required for an Investment Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of a  Subsidiary  Loan,  Sub-loan  or Investment shall be
eligible for financing out of the  proceeds of the Loan unless the
procurement procedures outlined in  paragraph  4  of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement have been followed to the satisfaction of the Bank.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall implement the Institutional
Development Plan diligently  and  promptly  in accordance with its
terms.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and  of  each  Investment  Project  (including  its  cost  and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, its  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  and records and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited  in  accordance  with  sound auditing
               principles consistently applied,  by an independent
               auditor acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of  said
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditor,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning the said records, accounts and financial
               statements and the audit  thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain in accordance  with  Section  4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain until at least  one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
Page  6
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by  said auditor as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall  be  necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including the  currency  of the Guarantor) used in
its operations.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio  of  debt  to  equity  shall be greater than 5
to 1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent, the amount  of  such  debt  has become out-
               standing pursuant  to  such  contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into  but  only to the extent that
               the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means  the  sum  of the total un-
               impaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
               reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated to cover
               specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  events are specified, namely
that:
     (a)  the Charter or the  Statement  of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
Page  7
of the Borrower or  its  ability  to  carry  out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
     (b)  a change shall have  been  made  in the Operating Policy
Guidelines without the Bank's consent.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the  following  additional  events  are specified: the
events specified in paragraphs (a) or  (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  have  been executed between
the Borrower and at least two Participating Financial Institutions
acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b)  the  Operating  Policy   Guidelines   of  the  Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted and put into effect.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Chairman  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Development Bank of the Philippines
          Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
          Makati Avenue
          Makati, Metro Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               PHILDEBANK                    22197
               Manila
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  8
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
                        By /s/ Vicente R. Jayme
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works               65,000,000     100% of foreign
     and services                              expenditures and
     financed by                               60% of local
     Subsidiary Loans,                         expenditures
     Sub-loans and
     Investments
     under Part A
     of the
     Project
                                __________
          TOTAL                 65,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  or Investment unless the Sub-
loan or Investment has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
Page  9
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  improve investment
credit delivery for industry  by  assisting  the Borrower to carry
out its wholesale  banking  function  of  channeling term funds to
retail  financial  institutions  and   to  broaden  the  scope  of
financial services available to industrial enterprises.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The financing of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to and
Investments in Investment Enterprises:
1.   Line of Credit for Equipment  and Working Capital. To provide
long-term  financing  to  Investment  Enterprises,  covering plant
improvements or construction and  acquisition of equipment as well
as the working capital  requirements associated with investment in
plant and equipment; and incremental marketing and worker training
and relocation expenses.
2.   Lease  Financing.   To   provide   finance  to  Participating
Financial Institutions for the purchase  of equipment to be leased
to Investment Enterprises.
3.   Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments. To provide financing for
equity and quasi-equity Investments (including common or preferred
stock, convertible debentures or subordinated debt, which could be
used either alone or  packaged  in  combination  with debt) by the
Participating Financial Institutions  against  their financing the
purchase of equipment, goods, services and works by the Investment
Enterprises.
Part B:
     To carry out  institutional  development  and improvements in
the technical capabilities of  the  Borrower and the Department of
Trade  and  Industry  of  the  Guarantor  in  accordance  with  an
Institutional Development Plan, satisfactory  to  the Bank; and to
undertake subsectoral studies  which  would  (i) provide subsector
data, analyses, and  strategies,  and  (ii)  develop proposals for
subsectoral  restructuring,  including  measures  to  improve  the
policy and  institutional  framework  for  the subsectors selected
with the concurrence of the Bank.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
       Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
       January 1, 1995                             1,185,000
       July 1, 1995                                1,230,000
       January 1, 1996                             1,280,000
       July 1, 1996                                1,325,000
       January 1, 1997                             1,380,000
       July 1, 1997                                1,430,000
       January 1, 1998                             1,485,000
       July 1, 1998                                1,545,000
       January 1, 1999                             1,605,000
Page  10
       July 1, 1999                                1,665,000
       January 1, 2000                             1,730,000
       July 1, 2000                                1,800,000
       January 1, 2001                             1,870,000
       July 1, 2001                                1,940,000
       January 1, 2002                             2,015,000
       July 1, 2002                                2,095,000
       January 1, 2003                             2,175,000
       July 1, 2003                                2,260,000
       January 1, 2004                             2,345,000
       July 1, 2004                                2,435,000
       January 1, 2005                             2,530,000
       July 1, 2005                                2,630,000
       January 1, 2006                             2,730,000
       July 1, 2006                                2,835,000
       January 1, 2007                             2,945,000
       July 1, 2007                                3,060,000
       January 1, 2008                             3,180,000
       July 1, 2008                                3,300,000
       January 1, 2009                             3,430,000
       July 1, 2009                                3,565,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
            Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of
           Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans and Investments;
             Operating Policy Guidelines; Procurement
1.   For Subsidiary Loans from  the  Borrower to the Participating
Page  11
     Financial Institutions:
     (a)  Relending interest  rates  shall  be  determined  by the
Borrower as prescribed in the Operating Policy Guidelines.
     (b)  Subject to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1 (a) above,
interest rates shall be reviewed  by the Borrower every six months
and in the event of  any  change,  the  revised rate shall be made
applicable on both new and outstanding loans/commitments.
     (c)  Repayment of Subsidiary Loans  shall conform in relevant
part substantially to the  aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to Sub-loans and the  schedules of repayment in respect
of Investments.
     (d)  The  Participating   Financial   Institutions  shall  be
required  to  observe  the   procurement  guidelines  outlined  in
paragraph 4 hereinbelow.
     (e)  Each  Participating   Financial   Institution  shall  be
required to maintain records  adequate  to  monitor and record the
progress of each Investment  Project  and to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
operations and financial condition  of the Participating Financial
Institution.
2.   For  Sub-loans   and   Investments   from  the  Participating
     Financial Institutions to the Investment Enterprises:
     (a)  Participating Financial  Institutions  shall be required
to observe the  guidelines  for  making Sub-loans, Free-limit Sub-
loans, and  Investments  as  prescribed  by  the  Borrower  in the
Operating Policy Guidelines.
     (b)  Sub-loans, Free-limit  Sub-loans,  and Investments shall
be based on the terms and conditions prescribed by the Borrower in
the Operating Policy Guidelines.
     (c)  The Investment Enterprises shall  be required to observe
the procurement guidelines outlined in paragraph 4 hereinbelow.
     (d)  Investment Enterprises and  Investment Projects shall be
required  to  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  prescribed  by the
Borrower in the Operating Policy Guidelines.
     (e)  Investment Enterprises and  Investment Projects shall be
required to observe and  conform with relevant environmental laws,
rules and regulations in force in the Republic of the Philippines.
     (f)  Each Investment Enterprise shall be required to maintain
records adequate  to  monitor  and  record  the  progress  of each
Investment Project and to  reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise.
3.   Operating Policy Guidelines
     The Operating Policy Guidelines  shall, inter alia, prescribe
the following:
          (i)  the   accreditation   criteria   for  Participating
               Financial Institutions;
         (ii)  procedures for relending by  the Borrower and terms
               and  conditions  of  the  Subsidiary  Loans  to the
               Participating Financial Institutions;
        (iii)  the exclusion  of  the  Borrower  as  a retailer of
               funds under the Project;
         (iv)  the eligibility criteria for Investment Enterprises
               and Investment Projects;
Page  12
          (v)  procedures   for   onlending   to   the  Investment
               Enterprises   by    the   Participating   Financial
               Institutions   and   terms    and   conditions   of
               Investments and Sub-loans;
         (vi)  Investment  Project  documentation  (financial  and
               legal) requirements for  Investments, Sub-loans and
               Free-limit Sub-loans;
        (vii)  required minimum  loan  financing  by Participating
               Financial Institutions in  Investment Projects from
               their own funds;
       (viii)  required   minimum    equity    contribution   from
               Investment Enterprises;
         (ix)  minimum  and   maximum   sizes   of  Sub-loans  and
               Investments; and
          (x)  required conformance with environmental laws.
4.   Procurement
     Goods, services and works to  be financed out of the proceeds
of the Subsidiary  Loans  or  Sub-loans  and  Investments shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors  such  as,  (i)  in  the  case  of  goods, timely
delivery  and  efficiency  and   reliability   of  the  goods  and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
(ii) in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them, and (iii) in the case of works, the
technical quality and the competitive cost therefor.
5.   Disbursement Eligibility
     No expenditures for goods, works  or services required for an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan or  Investment  for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by  the  Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than  ninety  days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under the Operating Policy  Guidelines in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a  free-limit  Sub-loan   for   which   the  Bank  has  authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under the Operating  Policy  Guidelines  in  respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time  to  time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to four  million  dollars  ($4,000,000) to be withdrawn
Page  13
from the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Category,  and  in  the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the  eligible  Category  less  the  amount  of  any outstanding
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as  the  Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
Page  14
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
