Page  1
                                                    March 27, 1990
Mr. Roberto de Ocampo
Chairman
Development Bank of the Philippines
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner Makati Avenue
P.O. Box 800, Makati Commeraal Center 3117
Makati, Metro Manila
Philippines
Dear Mr. de Ocampo:
             Re: Loan No. 3123-PH
                Industrial Investment Credit Project
                Amendment of Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement
      We refer to the Loan Agreement (Industrial Investment Credit
Project), dated November 9, 1989 (Loan Agreement), between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
the Development Bank of the Philippines (the Borrower). We also
refer to the letter dated March 6, 1990 from Mr. Manual A. Reyes,
Senior Vice President, Development Bank of the Philippines,
requesting the Bank to increase the Authorized Allocation in
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement from four million dollars to eight
million dollars. We have considered the appropriate level for the
Authorized Allocation and have concluded that six million dollars
($6,000,000) would be reasonable in view of the current disbursement
projections.
      Accordingly, the Bank is pleased to inform you that, in view
of the above, it hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as
follows:
      The phrase and figure "four million dollars ($4,000,000)" in
      Paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is changed
      to "six million dollars ($6,000,000)".
      Please confirm the agreement on behalf of the Borrower, to the
foregoing amendment by signing and dating the confirrnation form on
the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for our
records.
                            Sincerely,
                          Gautam S. Kaji
                             Director
                       Country Department II
                            Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE P~LIPPINES
By ROBERT F. DE OCAMP0
   Authorized Representative
