C/2! 2 c So -
Docummt of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Rqont No. P-6534-NI
MEMORANDUM AND RECONNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA.
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 24, 1995
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6534 NI
Type: MOP



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ I = 7.2 Nicaragua C6rdobas (January 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERAP             Committee for the Reform of Public Administration
(C6mile para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica)
DIGEFUP           Directorate General for Public Administration (Direccidn General
de Funcion Pztblica)
ERC               Economic Recovery Credit
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
1DB               Inter-American Development Bank
IDF               Institutional Development Fund
INAP              Government Training Institute (Inslitufo Nicaraguense de
Administraci6n Puiblica)
LIB               Limited Intemational Bidding
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PHRD              Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SDS               Service Delivery Survey
SIGFA             Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema Integrado de
Gesti6n y A2udiloria Financiera)
TA                Technical Assistance
UCRESEP           Coordinating Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector
(Unidad Coordinadora para la Reforma de Sector Publico)
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
USAID             United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
INSTlTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                              Republic of Nicaragua
Implementing Agency:                   Committec b-or the Reform of Public Administration
(CERAP) and Ministry of Finance
Beneficiaries:                         Ministry of Finance and participating public sector
agencies to be determined
Poverty Category:                      Not applicable
Amount:                                SDR 15.7 million (US$23 million equiivalenre)
Terms:                                 Standard IDA terms with an amortization of
40 years, i-..cluding 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:                        0.50%/o on undisbursed credit balances, beginnirg 60 days after
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:                        See Schedule A
Net Present Value:                     Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                There is no StaffAppraisal Report



MEMORANDUM A ND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TEHE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDrT TO NICARAGUA
FOR AN INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of Nicaragua for SDR 15.7 million, the equivalent of US$23.0 million, on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to help finance a project for Institutional
Development.
2.    Background: When the current Government of Nicaragua assumed office in April, 1990
it faced severe challenges. The economy, devastated by mismanagement and civil war, was
characterized by a cumbersome, centralized public sector, a small overregulated private sector,
and atrophied market institutions. During 1991 and 1992 the Govenmment implemented a strong
stabilization program supported by the IMF and initiated an IDA supported structural adjustment
program aimed at transforming Nicaragua into a market economy capable of achieving sustained
growth. Despite considerable progress, by early 1994 private sector investment and economic
activity had not rebounded as anticipated. A major contributing factor was the continuing drag of
the public sector on the economy. Even after privatizing over 300 firms, sizable reductions in the
public sector labor force, and major efforts at budget restraint, the non-financial public sector
remains large, accounting for 40 percent of GDP, and the 1994 fiscal current deficit in the non-
financial public sector, before donations, is about 8 percent of GDP. Moreover, service delivery
is weak as public sector financial management processes are rudimentary, human resource
management is nearly non-existent, and the mission, structure and function of individual rninistries
remain, in many instances, outdated and inadequate.
3.    To address these problems the authorities embarked on an intensified program of
adjustment with increased attention directed at fiscal restraint and public sector reform. IDA
supported this initiative with a second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) approved in June,
1994, which aims at, among other goals: (i) a 15 percent reduction in public employment; (ii)
continued privatization of public enterprises; and (iii) reform of state banking institutions.
Preparation of a Technical Assistance (TA) project to provide further design assistance for public
sector modernization began in early 1994. In light of the progress achieved during project
preparation in both assessing public sector weaknesses and in designing a comprehensive reform
program, the authorities requested that the TA credit be expanded into an implementation
oriented Institutional Development Project.
4.    Project Objectives: President Violeta Chamorro issued Decree 44-94 in October, 1994
launching a public sector modernization program and creating a cabinet level Commnittee for the
Reform of the Public Administration (CERAP) to oversee the program. CERAP has been
empowered to articulate policy and strategy, approve draft laws for submission to the President
and legislature, and oversee program implementation and the institutional restructuring process.
CERAP is chaired by the Minister of the Presidency and is comprised of the Ministers of Finance,



2
Construction and Transport, Social Action, Economy, Government, the two Vice Ministers of the
Presidency and the Vice Minister of Finance. Several members will chair sub-commissions
overseeing specific reforms issues (e.g. financial management, infrastructure, decentralizatiorn,
etc.). The goal of the reform is the creation of a state which is "small, strong, efficient... [and
which] acts as a facilitator to the private sector." In direct support of this program, which aims to
advance the country's structural adjustment, the proposed project's objectives are to assist the
Government: (i) implement its program for restructuring the public sector; (ii) improve the
delivery of essential public services; and (iii) further rationalize fiscal expenditures.
5.    Project Concept: Institutional restructuring is the heart of the reform program. It would
involve the systematic re-engineering of up to 20 ministries and decentralized agencies over a five
year period. Project execution would be phased with no more than five institutions joining the
program in any given year in order to limit demands on the Govermnent's overall reform
management capacity. An important degree of institutional "self-selection" would be utilized in
determining the order of entrance into the program to ensure commitment and "buy-in" by the
participating institutions. Institutional Restructuring Agreements (IRAs), negotiated betweern
CERAP and each candidate institution, would serve to guide and discipline the institutional
restructuring process. The IRAs would establish objectives and performance benchmarks for an
initial two year restructuring period, as well as delineate the resources (technical assistance,
training, information technology, etc. financed by IDA or other donors) to be made available to
each participating IRA institution. In addition to IDA and other donor resources, Government
sponsored incentives would include increased responsibility in budget fornulation and execution,
improved human resource management and training, and scope for selective pay adjustments for
essential professional and technical personnel in each participating IRA institution. Annual
performance reviev.s would establish the basis for modifying, terminating or enhancing the IRA
for the following year. Three cross-cutting project components (civil service reform, financial
management reformn, and investments in information technology) would provide critically
important complementary support to sustain improved service delivery in the participating IRA
institutions. Training would also constitute an important aspect of the reform effort, to be
delivered by the substantive consultants in each project component. The focus of these cross-
cutting components would be first targeted on those organizations with IRAs. The credit would
also complement the Government's on-going decentralization policy and prograrm by providing
training to local officials and by facilitating and deepening, through the IRA process, various
decentralization initiatives currently underway in several central govermnent institutions.
6.    Project Description: The proposed project activities and outputs would provide the
Government with the means to effect a coherent reform program based on critically needed and
mutually reinforcing components. The credit would finance long and short term consultant
services, training, and information technology. The attached Technical Annex provides a detailed
project description, including the linkages among the various components. Terms of reference for
all major consultancies, as well as several background studies completed during project
preparation are available in the Project File. The Technical Annex also provides details on project
administration and implementation arrangements. The Matrix of Key Project Activities and
Implementation Targets, which summarize objectives, activities, and timetables for project
supported outputs, are presented in the Technical Annex Schedule I (a) and 1 (b). The project



3
Training Plan is presented in Schedule 2. The proposed credit would support the following four
major components:
7.    The Institutional Restructuring Component ($7.05 million, including training, 22% of
total base costs) would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm
with relevant international experience to: (i) assist the CERAP Commission for Administrative
Reform establish and operate the IRA process in all participating institutions; (ii) provide direct
assistance (both management and sector specific) to the institutions implementing IRAs; (iii)
design and carry out diagnostic studies for prospective IRA institutions; (iv) support CERAP in
its effort to establish and implement Service Delivery Surveys; (v) help CERAP conduct annual
IRA performance reviews; (vi) provide professional expertise to design and implement core
management training programs; (vii) assist CERAP establish the overall management framework
to implement the public sector modernization program; and (viii) assist in the coordination of
other component contractors providing technical assistance to participating IRA institutions.
Additionally, this component would assist the Nicaraguan Institute for Public Administration
(INAP) expand and replicate the management training programs for participating IRA institutions
initially developed and pilot tested by the technical assistance contractor.
8.    The Civil Service Component ($3.34 million, including training, 10% of total base costs)
would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm specialized in
human resources management and with relevant international experience to assist the Civil Service
Commission and the Directorate General for Public Functions (DIGEFUP) within the Ministry of
Finance to: (i) draft, and implement upon enactment, a merit based civil service code; (ii) develop
a standard code of regulations covering all aspects of personnel administration; (iii) further
develop and maintain a government-wide job classification system and supporting computerized
establishment register; (iv) develop a service-wide, incentive based salary structure and the
capacity to periodically update the salary schedule through labor market wage surveys; (v) design
and carry-out effectively targeted staff reductions arising from the functional review and
institutional restructuring process; (vi) develop and apply appropriate recruitment and staff
selection processes; and (vii) strengthen the management and technical capacity of DIGEFUP to
meet its responsibilities as the rector of the civil service system. At the participating IRA
institutional level, the contractor, in conjunction with DIGEFUP, would provide technical
assistance to: (viii) upgrade personnel management divisions and practices. The contractor would
also: (ix) assist DIGEFUP and INAP design and carry out a core program of training in human
resources management; and (x) coordinate the training activities associated with the Integrated
Financial Management and Information Technology components (see paras. 9 and 10). This
training would be initially developed and delivered by the consultants retained under the
respective components and administered by INAP and UNDP. The Government, IDA, and
UNDP have reached understandings on the administrative and financial agreements to effectively
manage training activities under each of the respective project components.
9.    The Integrated Financial Management Component ($11.16 million, including training,
34% of total base costs) would assist the Ministry of Finance and the Commission for
Govemment Financial Administration and Control develop an Integrated Financial Management
System (SIGFA) based on the concept of operational decentralization of financial management



4
authority and responsibility to spending units within the framework of centralized policy guidance,
anchored in the establishment of a uniform and automated accounting system. The Government
has secured assistance from several donors to support discrete sub-components of the overall
SIGFA system, including: $4.4 million from USAID to develop the accounting sub-system and
strengthen the external audit capacity of the Comptroller General's Office; $0.9 million from
UNDP to train audit staff, and $1.5 million from the IDB to develop the treasury, public credit,
and procurement sub-systems. The IDA component would finance a competitively awarded, two
year renewable contract with a firm with relevant international experience and the associated
training costs to assist the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Administration Commission and
participating institutions to: (i) strengthen and better execute budget formulation, programming,
and evaluation processes, and (ii) establish well functioning internal audit units in each
paiticipating IRA institution. These two activities constitute critical components of the
Government's integrated financial management program. Consultants working on individual
SIGFA sub-systems, regardless of the source of donor financing, would be members of a team
supervised by an internationally experienced Technical Director reporting to the Minister of
Finance and Comptroller General, wvithin the overall policy framework of CERAP. The
Government would seek USAID, IDB, and IDA advice in the selection of the Technical Director,
who will be financed by USAID.
10.   The Information Technology Component ($6.91 million, including training, 21% of
total base costs) would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm
with relevant international experience in information technology systems. The selected firm
would assist the National Directorate for Information Systems design and implement its
information technology development program specifically related to financial management and
human resources systems development. IDA would also finance the procurement, installation,
and core training for the hardware, software, and network communications required for the
Ministry of Finance and all participating institutions. This investment would take account of
existing information technology in the public sector, but is considered the minimum necessary to
support the policy and procedural reforms contemplated in the institutional restructuring, financial
management, and civil service components. Like the other component activities, information
technology support would b_ structured and delivered through the IRA process.
11.   The Reform Management Component ($4.24 million, including training, 13% of total
base costs) would support the development of the policy-making and management capacity of
CERAP and the Coordinating Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector (UCRESEP). The Vice
Minister of Finance has been appointed as the CERAP Executive Secretary responsible for the
continuous oversight and management of the public sector modernization program and the
project. The Executive Secretary would be supported by a Project Coordination Unit
(UCRESEP) with a full time staff including a Director, Chief Financial Officer, a Procurement
Officer and other Nicaraguan professionals respectively assigned to oversee the following central
project activities: Institutional Restructuring; Civil Service Reform; Integrated Financial
Management; Information Technology; Decentralization; Training; and Service Delivery Surveys.
These surveys, being developed with the support of the Economic Development Institute (EDI),
would be an innovative and essential management tool both in establishing initial IRA
performance objectives and assessing annually service delivery performance improvements for



5
each participating IRA institution. IDA financing would provide technical assistance, training and
equipment to UCRESEP, and support the analytic2' work of the various commissions created
under Presidential Decree 44-94, the Service Delivery Surveys, and annual project audits.
12.   Project Cost and Financing: The credit would finance the cost of consultant services,
training, information technology, and reform management requirements. Total project costs are
estimated at $33.5 million equivalent of which $23.5 million (70 percent) would be foreign
exchange. The $23.0 million IDA credit, of which approximately $16.5 million would cover
foreign exchange costs, would finance approximately 69 percent of project costs. Already
committed financing to the project includes inputs by USAID ($4.4 million) and IDB ($1.5
million), with the UNDP expected to contribute up to an additional $2.3 million. The
Government would provide counterpart financing of $2.3 million (consisting of counterpart staff,
local consultants, purchase of some equipment, office space, supplies, secretarial services, vehicle
operation and training support costs). Approximately $16.9 million of the IDA credit would
finance consultant services including training and $2.6 million would be allocated for the purchase
of computer hardware and software. Cost estimates and the financing plan are shown in Schedule
A. Procurement and disbursement tables are provided in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Nicaragua are provided in
Schedules C and D.
13.   Project Implementation Arrangements: CERAP would be responsible for overall
project implementation. As indicated in paragraph 11 above, the Vice Minister of Finance would
oversee project implementation as well as serve as Executive Secretary to CERAI The
Executive Secretary would be supported by UCRESEP, which would be staffed by I licaraguan
professionals responsible for specific project components and oversight of the relevant
institutional contractors. The IRAs to be negotiated by CERAP with c .didate institutions would
constitute the principal management tool to guide and give discipline to the institutional
restructuring process. The Government has developed a model IRA (Technical Annex, Annex 1)
and, as a condition for loan effectiveness, it would negotiate and sign at least one institution
specific IRA satisfactory to the IDA. UCRESEP would be responsible for all administrative tasks
relating to the project including procurement, disbursements, and audits. Once core training has
been developed and pilot tested by consultants under the four institutional contracts (i.e. training
of management and mid-level staff and of trainers), INAP would manage the remainder of the
training program with assistance from UNDP as the disbursing agent, with the fee to be financed
from the IDA credit (Technical Annex, Schedule 2). The project would be jointly reviewed by
IDA and the Government annually. A comprehensive mid-term review to monitor implementation
progress and agree on any necessary changes to the project would be conducted after the second
year of project implementation.
14.   Procurement: Contracts for goods (computer equipment and software) shall be
packaged in lots valued at $100,000 equivalent or more and would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) for an estimated aggregate amount of $2.6 million. LIB procedures
are justified given the small number of providers with after-delivery service in Nicaragua.
Contracts for other goods and equipment with estimated values of less than $100,000 equivalent
would be procured using international shopping procedures; and contracts below $25,000



6
equivalent for other goods and equipment would be procured through local shopping. Local and
international shopping proccdures combined would be applied to contracts up to an aggregate
amount of $500,000 equivalent. Standard IDA bidding documents would be used for LIB. All
procurement for training under the various components would be in accordance with IDA
guidelines. INAP would administer training activities with the assistance of UNDP (see Technical
Annex, Schedule 2, para. 4). Consultant services would be procured in accordance with IDA
Consultants Guidelines dated August, 1981. For the four large institutional consulting contracts,
IDA's standard consulting services contract would be used. Terms of reference for all consultant
contracts would be satisfactory to IDA. All LIB procurement of goods, all iiidividual consulting
contracts above $50,000 equivalent, and all contracts with consulting firms above $100,000
equivalent, including the four major institutional contracts, would be subject to prior review by
IDA. The exemption from prior review for consulting contracts below the $50,000 and $100,000
thresholds would only apply to contracts up to an aggregate value of $1 million equivalent.
Finally, to ensure consistency in the administration of individual consultant contracts valued below
$50,OUC equivalent, the first three contracts in each calendar year would be subject to prior
review by IDA. These review arrangements would provide for IDA review of approximately 80
percent of the value of all contracts financed by IDA.
15.   Disbursements and Financing: The project is expected to be implemented over a five
year period. Disbursements would be made as specified in Schedule B and would be administered
by UCRESEP. All withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures
under contracts for goods valued below $100,000 equivalent, individual consultant contracts
valued at or below $50,000 equivalent after the first three approved each year and consultant firm
contracts valued at or below $100,000 equivalent up to $1 million which would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which detailed documentation would be retained
by the UCRESEP and made available for review by auditors and by IDA staff. UNDP would
provide "bridge" financing, as needed, to cover project activities initiated prior to credit
effectiveness. Retroactive financing up to SDR 1,360,000 ($2.0 million equivalent),
approximately 9 percent of the credit, would be authorized for eligible expenditures incurred after
January 30, 1995. This financing would cover the cost of additional diagnostic work and project
start-up activities. A Spccial Account in US dollars would be opened in the Central Bank, with an
authorized allocation of $1.5 million equivalent. Annual audit reports would be produced,
starting in December 1995, at the end of each calendar year and submitted to IDA within six
months after year end. Thte expected project completion date is June 30, 2000 and the credit
closing date would be December 31, 2000. An implementation completion report would be
prepared by the Governmmnt and submitted to IDA no later than June 30, 2001.
16.   Lessons Learned and Project Design: The preparation of this project has benefited
from previous LAC regional TA experiences in which the following constraints were identified: (i)
lack of well-designed and monitorable action plans for TA implementation; (ii) soft budget
guidelines and weak management that allowed the use of resources for purposes beyond the
objectives of the project; (iii) widespread proliferation of individual consultancies that became
difficult to coordinate and control and costly to administer; and (iv) weak counterpart
participation and support of the beneficiary institutions. The design of the proposed project has
addressed these constraints as follows: (i) specific but flexible actions plans have been prepared



7
for each component focusing on outputs and defining evaluation criteria and performance
indicators to judge project progress; (ii) criteria to ensure careful administration and IDA
supervision of the project, especially with respect to procurement and supervision of consultants,
have been established and agreed with the Government; (iii) the use of four large institutional
contractors, satisfactory to IDA would facilitate accountability and supervision. Additionally,
UNDP would be engaged to assist INAP in the management of the sinall training consultancies;
and (iv) counterpart responsibilities of the beneficiary agencies, i.e. those institutions participating
in the institutional restructuring process, would be clearly spelled out in each IRA, monitored on a
continuous basis and formally reviewed annually.
17.   Rationale for IDA Involvement: The proposed project is fully consistent with tlhe
Country Assistance Strategy and Policy Framework Paper discussed by tlr Board of Executive
Directors on June 21, 1994, which emphasized the need to consolidate and deepen the adjustment
process, particularly with respect to institutional development and Lhc modernization of the state.
The proposed project would support implementation of Nicaragua's adjustment effort as
embodied in ERC II, by supporting the Government's ability to plan and implement public
employment reductions and modernization of institutions. It would facilitate coordination of
technical assistance from other donors, contributing to a more coherent program which reinforces
and promotes the execution of the Government's structural adjustment and institutional capacity
building programs. The Government has also requested further IDA support through a third
adjustment credit, whose design would be supported by the proposed project.
1 8.   Agreed Actions: During negotiations agreements were confirmed on: (a) the matrix of
key activities and implementation targets for each component, including a clear understanding
with the government on component objectives, activities, outputs, performance indicators,
technical assistance, and institutional arrangements; (b) the five institutions to join the institutional
restructuring process during the initial project year; (c) the requirements and incentives to be
included in each IRA; (d) the staffing requirements of UCRESEP; (e) the counterpart contribution
of the government, including support for INAP overhead training expenses; (f) coordination of
cfforts among the various donors and the creation of a Public Sector Reform Donor Advisory
Group; and (g) the project performance review schedule, which includes: (i) submissions no later
than November 30 of each year, starting in 1995, of the CERAP/UCRESEP Reform Management
Action Plan for the coming year, and agreement thereon with IDA; (ii) annual reviews no later
than March 30 of each year, starting in 1996, of project performance during the previous year;
and (iii) a joint mid-term review under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to be held no later
than June 30, 1997. Conditions for credit effectiveness include: (a) the publication and
application of CERAP's operating procedures; (b) the complete professional staffing of
UCRESEP as agreed with IDA; and (c) the signing of at least one IRA between CERAP and a
participating ministry or decentralized agency. A condition of disbursement for training funds to
be administered by INAP (i.e., other than for the training activities specified under the institutional
contracts) is the signing of an agreement or other arrangement satisfactory to IDA between
CERAP and INAP.
19.   Environmental Aspects: The proposed project has an environmental category of "C".
The component for strengthening the institutional and legal framework for environmental



S
management would support, inter alia, the incorporation of environmental cost/benefit analysis
into the decision-making process for public investment projects.
20.   Program Objective Categories: By helping improve the Governmelit's institutional
capacity and assisting in a sustained reduction in the size of the state and redefinition of its role,
the project would support Nicaragna in economic management and private sector development.
21.   Project Benefits: The Government's program and the supporting Institutional
Development Project reflect a coherent and comprehensive approach to public sector
modernization. The project would help the Government shed activities best conducted by the
private sector while simultaneously strengthening the public sector's capacity to perform its core
functions. The focus of the credit on well designed institutional restructuring programs supported
by IRAs, annual performance reviews and surveys, and incentives to participating institutions,
reflect the Government's desire for measurable and timely improvements in the delivery of
essential public services to its citizens. Supported by horizontal reforms in the civil service and
financial management, selective investments in information technology, and training for key staff,
the proposed program should measurably improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency
of public sector operations. Success in terms of improved delivery capacity and lower costs, in
turn, would permit the Government to better implement its investment and social programs,
provide basic services to the poor, reduce demands on scarce national and international resources,
and positively affect business confidence and investment.
22.   Project Risks: The credit faces two main risks. Fi rst,political uncertainties in Nicaragua,
including elections in late 1996, could jeopardize timely implementation of the reform measures.
This risk is balanced by the Government's track record of satisfactory implementation of
stabilization and structural adjustment programs, a perceptible lessening in political polarization
and violence in Nicaragua during 1994, complemented by a moderate improvement in
macroeconomic performance, md the Government's recognition that intensification of public
sector reform is critical to continued macroeconomic progress. Moreover, supervision of the
project would be intensive and a mid-term review scheduled for June, 1997 would ensure
continued agreement between the Government and IDA on the uses of the credit. Second, the
project is complex and would tax the capacity of the Government to implement and IDA to
supervise. The authorities recognize this risk but believe that all project components are both
critical given the serious weaknesses within the public sector and mutually reinforcing. A
coherent reform management structure has been designed taking into account the strengths of the
Government, including its commitment to reform and willingness to take and implement decisions.
The structure of CERAP should facilitate appropriate commitment and timely support from the
highest levels of Government. The reliance of UCRESEP on institutional contractors (inevitable
given current technical capacity limits in the public sector) should reduce the difficulties in project
implementation, especially as each project component would be supervised one on one by a
Nicaraguan counterpart. Close project supervision by IDA and the use of a long term resident
advisor to assist in overall reform oversight would provide additional support for program
implementation.



9
23.   Recommendation: I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Ernest Stern
Acting President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 24, 1995



10
Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
NICARAGUA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ Millions equivalent)
|Institutional Restructuring             4.6      _      1.              6.3
Civil Service Reform                    2.2             0.8             3.0
Integrated Financial Mgt.               7.7             2.3            10.0
Infbrmation Technology                  2.4              1.2            3.6
Sub-Total Consultancies      16.9            6.0            22.9
Computer Hardware/Software              2.6              O              2.6
l                              ~~~      ~      ~~~     ~      ~~~~1.8  1.6  3.4
1.6            2.2             3.8    l
BASE COST ESTIMATE             22.9            9.8            32.7
Contingencies                           0.6             0.2             0.8     l
TOTAL COST           23.5             10.0           33.5
Government              2.3
IDA                   23.0
USAID                   4.4
UNDP                   2.3
IDB                     1.5
Total Cost             33.5



II
SCHEDULE B
PAGE I OF I
NICARAGUA
INTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Procurement Methods and Disbursement
(US $ million equivalent)
_~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1. Consultant Services                                             17.1           7.2 b/        24.3
l ______________________         __________    __________          (17.1)         (0.0)          (17.1)
2. Goods/Equipment                                                 3.3                           3.3
l________                          (2.9) c/                      (2.9)
3. Training/Travel Tours                                           3.0            0.6 bl         3.6
l_________                         (3.0) d/       (090)          (3.0)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                                    2.3            2.3
0.0)          (0.0
Note: IDA financing is in parentheses
aq/    Non-Bank Financed.
b1     Consultant services financed in parallel by USAID/IDB/UNDP; procured
in accordance with each donor's regulations and acceptable
to IDA.
-.     Procurement of computer equipment under LIB and other equipment
under local shopping up to US$500,000.
d/     All training procurement in accordance with IDA guidelines.
DISBURSEMENTS
| 1. Consultant Services                16.0                                                     100%
2. Goods/Equipment                      2.5                               100% of foreign expenditure
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 85% of other locally procured imported items
3. Training/Travel Tours                2.5                                                      100%
4. Unallocated                          2.0
Total                                  23.0
Annual                   ~~~~~ ~~3.0a/  5.5           6.2           5.6          2.7
Cumulative                   ~~~     ~ ~~3.0±  8.5      14.7          20.3         23.0
a/    Includes initial deposit of 1.0 million to the
Special Account and up to US$2.0 million of
retroactive financing for eligible expenditures
iin-i9rrPr  einrP T2nniinru ;n I QQs



12
Schedule C
Page 1 of I
NICARAGUA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
a)        Time Taken to Prepare:      Sixteen months
b)        Prepared by:                The Govenmment with IDA Assistance
c)        First IDA Mission:          December 1993
d)        Appraisal Mission Departure:  January 1995
e)        Negotiations:               Febrary 1995
f)        Planned Date of Effectiveness:  April 1995
g)        List of Relevant Documents:   None



Schedule D
13                                         Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Credit/             Fiscal
Loan No.            Year  Borrower   Purpose                              Bank       IDA    Undisburse
28 loans and 9 credits fully disbursed                                    229.61     197.00
Of which SECALs, SALs, and Program Loans
Cr. 2302-NIC       1992    Nicaragua  Economic Recovery Credit                       110.00
Cr. 2302-1 -NIC    1992    Nicaragua  Economic Recovery Credit                        10.30
Subtotal                                    120.30
Cr. 2434-NIC       1993    Nicaragua  Social Investment Fund                          25.00      10.21
Cr. 2536-NIC       1994    Nicaragua  Agric. Technology & Land Mgmnt.                 44.00      41.07
Cr. 2556-NIC       1994    Nicaragua  Health Sector Project                           15.00      14.80
Cr. 2631- NIC      1994    Nicaragua  Economic Recovery Credit II                     60.00      30.79
Cr. 2631-2-NIC     1995    Nicaragua  Economic Recovery Credit II                      6.30       6.38 '
Sub-total             150.30    103.25
Total                             229.61     347.30
Of which has been repaid         184.16       6.73
Total now held by Bank and IDA    45.45    357.19
Amount sold:              5.62
Of which has been repaid:   5.62
Total Undisbursed                  0.00       0.00    103.25
* SAL. SECAL, or Program Loan.
Difference due to exchange rate fluctuations between SDR and USS.
MdeS: LA2CO
File: N:tMdeSilva\disburse%nicaragu\NI-12-94.xIs
Jan. 19. 1994



Schedule D
14                                         Page 2 of 2
NICARAGUA
SUIMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of December 31, 1994
(US$ Millions)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal Year    Obligor                           Type of          IFC     IFC    Participant Total  by    Held by  Undisbursed
Committed                                        Business        Loan   Equity                    IFC  Participants  (including
Participants)
1968           Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, SA    Textile Mill  0.50    0.64   0.93    2.07   -         -          -
(FABRITEXI
1976           Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd.      Sugar Mill      6.50      -         -      6.50   -
1976           Posada del Sol *                  Hotel           0.70    0.20        -      0.90   -
Total Gross Commitments                           7.70    0.84      0.93    9.47
Less: Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment & Sales   7.70    0.84  0.93    9.47
Total Commitments Now Held c                     0.00-   0.00       0.00    0.00
Total Undisbursed Commitments                    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
a Investments which have been fully canceled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b Gross Commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c Held Commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.






