Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23379
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26900; TF-22481)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Cordobas
NI$ = US$ 0.07
US$ 1 = NI$ 14.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI                  Institutional Restructuring Agreement
CERAP                Executive Committee for Reformn of the
Public Administration
CGR                  Comptroller General's Office
EMTAC                Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit
ENITEL               State Telecommunications Company
ERC II               Economic Recovery Credit
DIFUP                Public Employee Directorate of the Finance Ministry
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IDA                  Institutional Development Association
IDC                  Institutional Development Credit
INAP                 Public Administration Institute
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resources Development
SETEC                Technical Secretariat
SIGFA                Integrated Financial Management and Audit System
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
USAID                United States Agency for Intemational Development
UCRESEP              Coordinating Unit for Reform of the Public Sector
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:  Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ronald E. Myers



NICARAGUA
NI INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                         14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8. Status of Policy Actions                                                  27






Project ID: P03 5080                                     Project Name: NI INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR
Team Leader: Ronald E. Myers                            I TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: NI INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                      L/CITF Number: IDA-26900; TF-22481
Country/Departnment: NICARAGUA                                         Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/29/94                              Effective: 06/16/95           05/12/95
Appraisal:  12/23/94                                 MTR: 07/01/98             07/01/98
Approval:  03/16/95                               Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT. OF NICARAGUA/CERAP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed, Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                      Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Ronald E. Myers                          Robert Mark Lacey
Team Leader at ICR:  Ronald E. Myers                          Ronald E. Myers
ICR Primary Author:  H. Nissenbaum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Ltkely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In 1990, Nicaragua emerged from a decade of civil war, during which the country had been transformed
into a highly unsuccessful centrally planned economy. It had a cumbersome and centralized public sector,
a small and over-regulated private sector and atrophied market institutions. Nicaragua's macro imbalances
were severe, and it had become one of the most heavily indebted countries in the world. A new
administration headed by President Violeta Chamorro pursued an ambitious stabilization and reform
program. After several years, the program began to produce results, with growth finally turning positive in
1994 and then accelerating.
With regard to the public sector, the civil service was reduced and a vast number of public enterprises were
divested. Still, the public administration remained large and costly, and service delivery was widely
perceived to be very poor. The Governnent possessed only rudimentary financial management processes, a
weak human resource base and an organization structure which was not well adapted to the country's
priorities.
To address these problems, the authorities embarked on a second stage of adjustment in the mid-1990s,
focussing on public sector reform and modernization. IDA supported this program with the Second
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II), approved in June 1994. The Governnent and IDA also developed a
parallel technical assistance project to support the design and launching of the public sector modernization
program. The resulting Institutional Development Credit (IDC) was approved in March 1995. In line with
CAS objectives, the IDC aimned to assist the Government in restructuring the public sector, improving the
delivery of essential public services and further rationalizing public expenditures. It was expected that the
project would achieve these objectives by reforming the macro structure of the central government,
re-engineering selected ministries and agencies, upgrading informnation technology in the aforementioned
ministries and agencies, and preparing cross-cutting civil service and financial management reforms.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Institutional Development Project was augmented during its execution to include three additional
activities discussed in para. 3.4. As these fell within the project objectives of assisting the Government to
restructure the public sector, improve the delivery of essential public services, and further rationalize fiscal
expenditures, no revisions were made to the original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The original Project components were:
(i) histitutional restructuring--diagnostic studies of the Central Government and selected agencies
and their subsequent restructuring
(ii) Civil service reform--preparation of a civil service code and support for its implementation
(iii) Integrated financial management--design and implementation of a unified financial management
system, with emphasis on budget formulation, programming and evaluation
(iv) Information technology--design and implementation of financial management and human resources
information technology systems
(v) Training--preparation and conduct of training of managers, technicians and administrative
personnel for implementation of the aforementioned activities
(vi) Reform management--direction and administration of the Project
3.4 Revised Components:
-2 -



Several activities were added over the life of the IDC, including: (i) support for the privatization of the
state telecommunications agency (ENITEL); (ii) some preliminary work on corruption issues, through
assessment of citizens' attitudes regarding public sector corruption and the launching of a national integrity
program; and (iii) the establishment of an economic advisory capacity in the Office of the Presidency.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. When the Government initiated discussions with IDA on a public sector technical assistance
operation, there were concerns about the capacity to carry out institutional changes in the prevailing
political environrnent, which was highly polarized and with elections scheduled for late 1996. The risks of
possible discontinuity in economic policies and related reform efforts were considered to be fairly high. In
the circumstances, consideration was given to limiting the scope of the IDC to only the design phase of the
reform measures. However, while noting the risks, it was decided to proceed with support for both the
design and initial implementation of a comprehensive public sector modernization effort.
In part this decision was a response to the Government's desire to move quickly in rationalizing public
administration, as evidenced by a series of important measures. First, a 1994 Presidential Decree
established the goals and organizational arrangements for modernization of the public sector, and a strong
management structure, guided by a high level cabinet committee (CERAP), was created to provide policy
oversight and direction. The Vice Minister of Finance was designated as CERAP's Executive Secretary,
supported by a unit within the Ministry (UCRESEP). Second, the Ministry of Finance began actively
negotiating with various agencies to encourage their restructuring. Third, agreements were reached with
USAID and IDB for coordinated support for the integrated financial management component of the project
(IDB would assist public credit, debt and procurement functions, while USAID would support accounting,
external audit, public awareness and project management). Fourth, the design reflected lessons from other
Bank-supported technical assistance operations in Latin America, in particular the need for detailed but
flexible action plans which defined good outcome-based indicators to monitor progress for each component.
Finally, an imaginative design feature called for the Government agencies participating in restructuring
activities to carry out service delivery surveys linked with their perfornance management systems, in order
to take account of beneficiaries' views. The plan for the surveys was agreed upon before project
implementation began and they were launched early on. WBI was designated to manage the surveys, so as
to draw on its performance management experience.
Design of other parts of the strategy was less effective. The Project plan called for the establishment of
institutional restructuring agreements (ARIs) for up to 20 ministries and other agencies to guide their
re-engineering. This number proved to be too optimistic, as the project ultimately assisted seven
institutions. Also, the ARIs did not develop into the full scale rigorously enforced contractual
understandings between the central authorities and executing agencies, as had been envisaged originally.
The notion of parallel, coordinated progress in agency restructuring, integrated financial management
(SIGFA--Integrated Financial Management and Audit System) and personnel administration also proved
difficult to achieve, and the components actually proceeded comparatively independently. SIGFA's
implementation, for example, began one year earlier than the others. The ICR considers that the concept of
the linkage was valid, as it was reasonable to try to solve government-wide problems in tandem with
individual ministries' internal reforms, but the difficulties of doing so were underestimated.
Another design problem concerned differences of opinion between the Government and the
IDB/IDA/UNDP/USAID about whether the consultants needed for project implementation should be hired
individually or under an institutional umbrella, as well as with or without an overall project manager. Thus
approaches taken varied, as did the results. In addition, the scheme called for close coordination of training
-3 -



assistance with other components, and this was really achieved only in the case of SIGFA.
The Project's original $33.5 million funding plan (including the envisaged collective $8.2 million
contribution from IDB, UNDP and USAID under parallel financing arrangements) fell short of the
resources actually needed to carry out the various public sector reform activities, especially since several
new tasks were taken on during implementation (Section 3.4). This funding situation was also affected by
negative exchange rate movements. The task team took a flexible approach, with IDA country
management support, and funded the new activities even though this meant the total credit would run short.
Indeed, credit resources were drawn in three years, and IDA moved on inmmediately to support a follow up
project. The ICR considers that this was appropriate and enabled IDA to provide timely support to an
evolving reform agenda:
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The Project accomplished its core objectives and resulted in some significant institutional
strengthening (ref. para. 4.5). The work on several components advanced slower than expected, and
consequently produced less than originally intended. However, this was more than offset by the substantial
progress achieved in several other respects. The operation helped build a framework and install the
machinery for higher standard management of public finances and should provide much better information
for making decisions on Government spending and influencing its costs and benefits. The assistance also
began to put in place potentially important foundations for reforms in personnel management.
The Project also triggered and helped the Government develop the bases for public sector reforms in areas
which were not originally on its agenda: public administration integrity and economic policy-making. All
these accomplishments, taken together with their realization under relatively challenging conditions, are
judged sufficient to rate the outcome satisfactory.
The Project created a strong basis for broader future public sector modernization efforts. It provided useful
examples for the evolving experience in the "Second Generation" reforms that began in the mid-1990s in
the sector. Likewise, it helped to raise state reform's prominence on Nicaragua's future policy agenda.
There is already in fact a step in this direction in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that
indicated that one of the Government's future guiding principles would be to pursue "continued
modermization of the state to increase both its focus and efficiency in providing services to the poor."
The authorities pursued a two-pronged organizational reform strategy under the Project. At the macro
level, they concentrated on the revision of the public sector's legal framework and on the Executive
Branch's mission, functions and organization, The Government proposed far reaching legislation which
ultimately became Law 290 approved in 1998. This resulted in an impressive streamlining of the
macro-structure of the Central Government. The project succeeded in reducing the number of government
entities, as well as resolying issues of overlapping missions, unclear boundaries between institutions and
duplication of functions. On the more micro level, the Project focused institutionally on restructuring
several ministries, the Social Security Institute and the municipal development agency. It also supported the
movement toward creation of a civil service administration. Overall, these measures led to important
improvements, but theyistill left the ,Government burdened by imbalances, over centralization and a poor
service orientation.
Relatively little was accomplished towards rationalizing fiscal expenditures since it was not expected that
the Project's institution building activities would net very sizeable spending reductions during the project
-4 -



period. But the Project-related refonns did result in the aforementioned elimination of ministries and
reduction in other agencies, as well as the creation of more efficient cash management and movement
toward tightened financial reporting. Over time, these should generate fiscal benefits. In this connection,
UCRESEP has forecast that Law 290, when fully effective, should be capable of producing sizeable annual
savings.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Institutional Restructuring Component: Satisfactory
A Government paper of July 1994 cast institutional restructuring as the keystone of its public sector reform
program. For this purpose, the Project employed the concept of explicit performance contracts to guide the
process, which were to be implemented through the ARIs. In the event, these were agreed to by CERAP
and the agencies selected for re-engineering: the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce, Transport
and Infrastructure, Natural Resources, the Social Security Institute and the Institute for Municipal
Development. This was considerably less than the up to twenty institutions planned.
The participating institutions first undertook diagnostic reviews of their missions, structure and functions.
They organized "change teams" from within their ranks to work with consultants in conducting these
diagnoses. These in turn led to re-engineering these organizations' operations, largely concentrated on
improving their administrative processes and service deliveries. Some 70 processes were redesigned. These
concerned budget execution and modification, renewal of operating licenses, project environmental impact
statements, forest and mine concessioning, child adoption procedures, etc. The teams also reviewed
administrative structures and outstanding legal issues.
The resulting new work processes are projected to generate 40-50 percent reductions in the recurrent costs
and other expenses of their activities, particularly in the areas of natural resources and transport. In
addition, the organizations' diagnoses helped the Government in its preparation of the 1998 budget. They
have also facilitated better inter-ministerial coordination regarding the management of natural resource
administration. Moreover, these diagnoses and parallel sector analyses contributed to the design of the
Executive Branch reorganization set out in Law 290.
On the other hand, the participating organizations' achievements consisted mainly of the redesign of
administrative processes and the creation of the "change teams" themselves, although there were also
significant reorganization steps taken in the Transport and Natural Resource Ministries and in the Social
Security Institute. But these organizations credit these changes more to Law 290 or stimuli from other
sources (including different IDA Credits) than to the IDC.
Despite these problems though, the concept and initiative of the ARIs were worthwhile. Their usage
successfully created a model for public sector institutional reform. In addition to the work process changes
and their effects, the participating institutions reported that their staffs accepted fully and followed the
restructuring agreements as worthy efforts. Several moreover said that they kindled interest in reform
measures generally.
But the process requires improvements. A main one would be to have sturdier ARI provisions for greater
performance incentives, and to see that these are in fact made available. Another would be to provide more
direct funding of the measures to be taken by the participating agencies in order to prepare for and enact
restructuring and comparable reforms. In addition, the ARIs needed to have more specific and rigorous
performance targets.
- 5-



(ii) Civil Service Reform Component: Satisfactory
Project assistance helped to define a model of a professional civil service system ("Modelo de Funcion
Publica") and its governing principles. Also, a draft comprehensive Civil Service and Administrative
Career Law was prepared to provide a more performance-based human resources structure, as were new
manuals to guide job descriptions and the methodology for performance evaluation and measurement. An
information system for managing human resources was designed, along with model job classifications.
Consultants also drafted a model for a public sector wage structure.
Experts helped eight Government agencies analyze and classify an estimated 983 positions. A total of 782
civil servants from 48 public sector agencies (including some legislative offices) were trained in
2000-2001, and there were workshops on personnel procedures in the restructuring institutions. The
Government meanwhile advanced the design of a proposed senior technical and management service.
Furthermore, the Finance Ministry's Directorate General for Public Functions personnel department
(DIFUP) began a transition from the Govemrnent's payroll manager to move towards an administrator of
the civil service. Technical assistance helped develop DIFUP's structure, redefine its functions and train its
staff. If the Career Law is passed, it could enhance DIFUP's readiness to become the Government's rector
personnel institution possibly outside of the Finance Ministry for greater autonomy.
These achievements constituted valuable steps and met the IDC objectives, but their potential benefits were
limited by the fact that the civil service law has not been approved. This has prolonged uncertainty about
the basic policy framework, and restricted the potential benefits from institutional restructuring.
To its credit, the Government successfully continued downsizing the civil service. Total public sector
employment declined steadily from 218,000 (1990) to 78,000 (1999). Meanwhile, average remuneration
increased after 1997, reversing the previous declining trend. This was consistent, after economic growth
resumed, with the national trend of rising real wages and salaries, especially in the second half of the
decade. The increased Government salaries helped produce a positive annual 2.8 % trend in its real wages
over 1991-2000. A follow-up IDA-financed project, the Economic and Financial Technical Assistance
Project (EMTAC), provides continuing support for civil service reform. Revisions to the draft civil service
law are being negotiated with stakeholders, and the Executive expects to present it to the Assembly for
approval later this calendar year.
iii) Integrated Financial Management Component: Satisfactory
Perhaps the most significant Project achievement was the start-up of an integrated financial management
system. The SIGFA concept was one of a single government system supporting the needs of the executive,
legislative, judiciary branches, as well as the Comptroller General's Office (CGR). The scheme envisaged
establishing the system at two levels: SIGFA-Central in the Finance Ministry as the primary financial
management regulatory authority; to be followed by installing SIGFA-Local in individual agencies linked
to SIGFA-Central.
SIGFA Central became operational in 1998. It integrated budget, accounting, treasury and public credit
systems, and four subsystems were subsequently introduced. The entire system rests on a common set of
rules and procedures, and accounting data base. Formal standards for the areas encompassed were defined
and became obligatory throughout the Central Government.
The budget process is improving considerably through these changes. The budget has become more
comprehensive, the document now provides richer detailed expenditure data, and its preparation has been
- 6 -



streamlined. Budget execution programming is becoming more decentralized and its automation has
improved the predictability of fund flows. Budget classifications have been linked to a chart of accounts.
During the Project period, it was too early to determine that better future overall budget performance was
assured but some positive indications exist. For example, the availability of on-line processing of
reallocation requests facilitated the urgent budget changes which were needed after Hurricane Mitch.
An entirely new system was created for accounting reform. This encompassed improved institutional
arrangements and integrated computerized recording and processing of transactions. A new accounting
manual defined principles, standards, guidelines and financial reporting requirements. A Government chart
of accounts was developed and is being enforced throughout the public sector. Accrual accounting was
introduced for budgetary expenditures, and there is now a single unified system covering both expenditures
and revenues. Double-entry financial accountmg was introduced, integrated with accrual accounting.
Central accounting responsibilities are now more clearly defined. The accounting department was
strengthened and replaced the budget department in responsibility for accounting postings. Finance
Ministry officials say that the innovation of accrual accounting has produced cultural changes among
financial managers, who can no longer think in terms of historical budget execution statistics or paper
processing. Accounting has been substantially upgraded as a result of these changes.
Of equivalent importance was the transformation of treasury operations with the opening of a single bank
account ("Cuenta Unica") for managing cash. This captures almost all domestically generated (but not all
extemally-financed) revenues and the expenditures of some 150 government units. Treasury operations
were effectively integrated with budgeting functions as well. The changes have helped strengthen central
level liquidity for faster settlement of suppliers' bills, and for paying Government workers' wages in the
future.
In addition, the Project included measures for modernizing the framework for public procurement and
creating an effective oversight body for line agencies' purchases. A new law established a Finance Ministry
unit for this purpose and defined its regulatory functions. An automated central registry was implemented.
Meanwhile, the authorities moved to decentralize to the line agencies procurement, whose system is to be
incorporated into the SIGFA system.
By comparison with other project activities, the strengthening of Nicaragua's auditing capabilities was less
successful under the Project. The plan called for links between financial management and control and audit
functions. Although these were not effected, some good initial work was carried out, and this task
continues under the follow-up EMTAC operation.
As a result of all these changes, the financial management system is now better equipped for controlling
overall expenditures in line with resources. It is also more capable of ensuring that budgets are executed as
planned. In both areas, Nicaragua's capacity has improved considerably since the mid-I 990s. In this
connection, Bank analysis has found that the volatility of budget allocations decreased over 1992-2001 for
current expenditures, contributing to improved fiscal discipline. It also indicated greater budget credibility,
in terms of the extent to which spending agencies receive the resources initially allocated. In addition, the
changes made have facilitated the production of more timely financial statements. Those for 1998 were
available in the first week of January 1999, a process which took 6-10 months previously.
These improvements are partly due to the installation and implementation of modem electronic information
technology. This provided a single relational database system on which the new products depend. It was
installed in the Finance Ministry, whose previous IT platform for financial management was rudimentary
and becoming obsolete. The new application was installed on a modem hardware platform, combined with
- 7 -



the adaptation of a software package donated by the Government of Argentina. Another valuable input for
the project's accomplishments was the training of 3,418 financial staff and of SIGFA's work groups.
Finally, a basic legal framework for the changes has been created, although it lacks the authority of organic
legislation.
All these developments signify distinct progress toward the envisaged goal of operational decentralization
of financial management within the framework of central policy guidance and the boundaries of a uniform,
automated accounting system. It cannot yet be said that the progress achieved has given Nicaragua a well
functioning integrated financial management system. However, this first stage of its implementation has
already markedly changed the situation in the ways the Project sought. In contrast with the past, the budget
process is no longer so rudimentary and subordinated to short-term management priorities. Spending
agency budgeting is now more related to planned budgets. Cash control is much less of a monthly rationing
exercise.
Still more remains to be done though, largely to deepen and extend the refonns supported by the project, as
some challenges remain: the framework for SIGFA-Local was designed but not installed in line agencies
under the Project (which the Government expects to do in 2002). There is also still a "soft" budget issued
(related to foreign aid funds which need to be tackled. Capital spending originating from foreign aid is very
significant in Nicaragua's public finances. Yet the capital budget document does not accurately reflect all of
these flows. The EMTAC is already helping to advance some improvements to address this problem (ref.
para. 6. 1). Furthermore, the Government's undertakings for the planned HPIC arrangement call for further
actions to incorporate extemally financed resources in the financial management system.
Finally, SIGFA is not yet being used to determine if funds are being used efficiently or effectively for the
intended purposes. Expenditure reporting has been focused on fiscal balance and execution rates, with less
attention to physical achievements, operational efficiency or historic trends. In addition, the Government
needs to improve the quality of and public accessibility to information about the budget and its execution.
Here too, EMTAC is making significant progress in addressing these issues.
(iv) Telecommunications Privatization Component: Satisfactory
A new component of the Project provided assistance for the Govemment to privatize the state
telecommunications company (ENITEL). ENITEL contracted specialists with IDC funding to help
promote a September 2000 bidding process, which ultimately failed because of limited investor interest and
the need to better prepare ENITEL for privatization. The Government took further action to address
ENITEL staffing and tariff issues, and a subsequent bidding process in August 2001 proved successful.
After the improvement of the privatization law, the Government carried out the auction of ENITEL in
September 2000. For these purposes, the Govemment had requested and the Bank approved a new project
to further support the refomis of the telecommunication sector (the Telecommunications Reform Project).
Partly with funds of this new Project, the Government continued its effort to privatize ENITEL. This
auction failed, because the only bid presented by France Telecom was lower than the base price fixed by
the Government.
The Government modified again the privatization law, making the terms of the transaction more attractive
to investors in May of 2001. New advisors were hired and a new privatization effort was launched. The
Government also improved the financial conditions of ENITEL by reducing some of its debt and staff and
increasing tariffs to boost revenues. This new effort was successful. The Govenmment concluded the
privatization satisfactorily in August 2001, when a consortium led by Telia of Sweden and EMCE of
- 8 -



Honduras won the auction for 40% of the shares of ENITEL and management control. The consortium
promised to pay $83.3 million for these shares and the management contract for ENITEL. The
transaction closed on December 18, 2001.
IDA's collaboration with the Government in the area of ENITEL'S privatization under the IDC, also
provided the basis for a Telecommunications Reform Project currently under implementation. The IDC
Project also provided technical assistance to strengthen ENITEL's fnances, accounting and organization,
as well as on sector legislation and regulation.
(v) Anti-Corruption Component: Marginally Satisfactory
An anti-corruption component added to the Project during implementation helped the Government to
establish a National Integrity Committee, with a citizens advisory body. A widely attended national seminar
was held on the subject with IDA and IDB support, and a survey of citizens' perceptions was completed (to
which WBI contributed). The ICR rates this activity as marginally satisfactory because, while the National
Integrity Committee was established and seminar and survey carried out, the previous administration
provided very little follow-up in addressing the corruption agenda. The current government, which
campaigned strongly in governance issues, is expected to make far more progress in this area.
(vi) Improved Macro-Economic Management Component: Satisfactory
After passage of Law 290, the Government obtained assistance from the Credit to create a small technical
secretariat (SETEC) for economic and financial advisory services. Its task is to advise the President and his
cabinet on macro-economic issues, monitoring macro performance, overseeing public investment and
coordinating policies across ministries. IDC's assistance for staffmg SETEC only began in May 2000 and
was delayed by contracting problems. Nonetheless, the Secretariat was able to provide analyses on a range
of matters, and to assist the Government in the preparation of its poverty reduction strategy (PRSP). The
new government has retained SETEC, strengthened staffing and expanded its role.
(vii) Service Delivery Surveys Component: Satisfactory
The Project supported seven Ministries and other agencies in carrying out some twenty service delivery
surveys in various sectors. The surveys gathered public opinion on public transportation, customs, the
social security system's health activities, and industry and commerce's as well as police functions. In
addition, the authorities contracted local experts develop service delivery evaluation methods and
capacities. These new strands of Govermment activity contributed to building appreciation for the process
of improving service delivery. WBI also assisted the Government team in trying to overcome ministry
staffs' reservations about the introduction of performance measurement, to which the surveys were
intended to be linked. While the performance review system was not implemented during the project
implementation period, the survey led to the creation of an Executive Branch catalogue of 922 services
which 37 agencies provide. For example, the Social Security Institute's survey stimulated actions for
upgrading its health activities. The survey of transport services also generated improvements, as well as
attracted the substantial participation of line managers.
(viii) Training Component: Satisfactory
This component suffered some lag but ultimately 3,418 staff were trained in financial administration in
connection with SIGFA's implementation, both from the Finance Ministry and line agencies (e.g.,
Transport). Similarly, 782 officers from 48 legislative and executive branch units were briefed on the new
personnel administrations methods in September 2000-June 2001. Government officials said that the
-9-



training activities were useful and contributed to an overall helpful transfer of technology. However, some
also indicated that it would have been desirable to have had closer coordination with project institutional
restructuring activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
SubstantiaL  The Project helped implement an impressive array of organizational reforms and
innovations. Law 290, the main contributing agent, resulted in a streamlining of the macro-structure of the
central government (ref. para.4. 1) Among others, it advanced the rationalization of the functions of the
Finance Ministry, enabling it to assume a greater regulatory and guiding role. Similarly, it helped establish
the framework for a prospective civil service administration through the design of an entirely new role for
the Directorate Geneml for Public Functions. Furthermore, the Project put in place a mechanism for
enabling public sector organizations to assess their shortcomings and to develop plans for upgrading their
development. It led several institutions to change some practices in the interests of better supplying public
services. In addition, the creation of CERAP, SETEC and UCRESEP contributed to strengthen the overall
capacity of the Government to manage its resources more effectively. And the support provided to
ENITEL's privatization could contribute to improvement of the telecommunication sector organization.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Exogenous factors affected the project's budget, including exchange rate movements against the SDR
(which reduced the funds available by $2 million) and the decision to support several priority activities that
were not in the original project plan. This made it necessary to supplement the resources initially provided
by IDB, UNDP and USAID under the Project's parallel financing arrangements, and for IDA to accelerate
preparation of the follow-up EMTAC project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project execution was delayed early on--but not seriously marred--by a constitutional dispute between the
executive and legislative branches. The dispute had nothing to do with the project, but caused a delay in all
congressional actions until it was resolved. CERAP's leadership was affected negatively by changes in
senior officers responsible for project implementation. Over five years, these included two ministers of
finance, five vice-ministers of finance, three budget directors, three chief accountants, three treasury
directors, three procurement directors and two public debt directors. During the same period, which did
include elections and a change of government, CERAP itself had four executive secretaries and its
membership changed twice.
The change in Government in 1997 affected the Project in several other ways. It led to the separation of
SIGFA's implementation from the other components. The new team also first reviewed and then revised the
previous administration's ARIs. In addition, the training scheme called for the Nicaraguan Public
Administration Institute (INAP) to expand training programs designed as part of individual ministries'
restructuring plans, and to replicate them. However, the new administration dissolved INAP. This and the
slow progress of training activities resulted in the reprogramming of the funds planned for training to other
components. Some other consequences of the new team's introduction were more positive. In early 1998,
CERAP's role was reinvigorated. The Government upgraded its Project support, especially with the
- 1 0 -



guidance of the new Vice President. Neither of the two administrations involved in the Project pressed for
passage of the Civil Service Career Law.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
UCRESEP's leadership became progressively stronger during the project, particularly towards the end of
the implementation period. It also undertook to directly manage the implementation of some Project
components. It continued to develop during the follow-up EMTAC project and is now also providing
efficient project administration support to several other IDA-financed projects in Nicaragua.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
A total of $28.47 million was recorded to have been spent on the project (ref. Annex 2). This is based on
IDA disbursements of $21.4 million, USAID's $4.5 million, IDB and Swiss Government expenditures of
$1.9 million, and the Nicaraguan Governnent's own contribution of $490,000. However, the Borrower's
contribution actually exceeded the last mentioned sum, which does not include the costs of its personnel,
infrastructure and equipment provided for the Project. In addition, it should be noted that the costs of
training provided under the project were incorporated in the sums disbursed for the components of
institutional restructuring civil service reform, SIGFA, etc. They were not accounted for separately.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The improvements made under the Project are likely to be sustained. The reform at the
SIGFA-Central level is sufficiently firm that integrated financial management is well on the way to
becoming a fully established system. The other components' initial successes and their positive Government
endorsement indicate good possibilities of even more extensive future development. There is, however,
uncertainty about the fate of the personnel reform efforts if the proposed civil service code is not enacted or
comparable authority is not established by the Executive Branch.
EMTAC is helping the Government enlarge and consolidate the gains made. It has, in fact, already applied
some of the IDC lessons, e.g., by narrowing the focus of future institutional restructuring, concentrating on
core economic ministries, and upgrading the IT platform. Also, there is widespread recognition in
Nicaragua that the progress of state modernization is still incomplete. Moreover, the prospects for
continuity are buoyed by the well functioning and staffed administrative structure in place (with which
UCRESEP is managing EMTAC).
In the final analysis though, public sector reformn depends on good govemance, the conditions for which are
still fragile in Nicaragua. The Government is just beginning to identify and root out corruption, and the
instruments for obtaining high level transparency and accountability are still in the making. Patronage
pressures could continue to interfere with efforts to instill greater professionalism and expertise in public
sector employment. In addition, the planning units in many of the public sector institutions are weak, and
their program monitoring, evaluation and control activities still need considerable strengthening.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
EMTAC constitutes a firm arrangement for the future operations of the major parts of the IDC. It aims at
expanding the integrated financial management reform effort, implementing fundamental reform of the civil
service, meeting demands for further streamlining the central administration, targeting for reform key
services in several priority agencies and advancing the initiatives taken toward increasing national integrity
and improving macroeconomic, public investment and fiscal policy formulation and implementation. The
PAD for EMTAC describes appropriate technical, financial and institutional provisions to ensure effective
operation of these activities.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. IDA's preparation and appraisal of the Project were marked by a careful assessment of the
risks of moving ahead relatively boldly. While project results show some original plans to have
been excessively optimistic, overall they confirm that the judgments made were appropriate.
In addition, the Project's design systematically applied lessons from past TA operations for trying to avert
implementation difficulties. The task team's successful mobilization of a large PHRD grant helped to
produce intensive project preparation, which provided valuable material on institutional weaknesses and
other potential problems. Other prudent measures included providing only a relatively modest sized Credit
for a somewhat risky operation.
There was however a shortcoming in the task team's limited coordination with other IDA teamns who were
supporting institutional reforms under other IDA projects (e.g., in the Health and Education Ministries).
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The task team complied fully with IDA supervision requirements and helped ably overcome
implementation problems while exercising considerable flexibility. It processed, less than four months after
effectiveness, a Credit amendment to authorize IDA financing of a larger proportion of the costs of
administering the Project than originally agreed, because of both a tightening of Government budget
ceilings in order to comply with IMF program conditions and an expansion in the scope of the envisaged
public sector reforms. Similarly, when it became apparent later that the Project's funding plan was
insufficient to meet the planned objectives and execution pace, the task team then moved quickly therefore
to mobilize EMTAC.
Conversely though, some Government officials criticize some aspects of IDA's management of SIGFA on
several counts (but all commended its concept and the results achieved so far). One view faulted its
technology and consultant arrangements. Others complained that SIGFA's initiation was unduly delayed
and excessively costly.
The task team is seen to have maintained effective coordination with the IMF and the financing partners.
There was quite useful collaboration with the Fund on key structural adjustment issues, as well as SIGFA.
There was collaborative dialogue and flexibility with the IDB and USAID. As a result, due dates were
extended and project content was changed smoothly, but better arrangements could have been put in place
to permit consolidated accounting of the support from these three donors.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. The Bank made farsighted, prudent judgments in preparing and supervising the Project with
relatively secondary exceptions.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance and other officers responsible for financial management systems,
fiscal affairs and the civil service made valuable contributions to the quality of project preparation. The
Government overall readily assumed "ownership" of the Project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
- 12 -



Satisfactory. The Government showed a generally positive, albeit un-even, commitment to the public
sector reform program. This particularly tended to diminish during periods of political stress. CERAP, the
executive committee for sector reform and modernization, displayed good initial interest in the program but
this tailed off. The shift in responsibilities between the Vice President's Office and the Finance Ministry
also affected the project, but ultimately led to stronger support for public sector modernization. The
passage of the Executive Branch reform legislation in 1998 after protracted negotiations at the highest
levels gave the Project a substantial boost. Some momentum was again lost during the run-up to the 2001
elections, but the current administration has again placed public sector modernization among the priorities
of its agenda.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Government's project management was quite good, a commendable accomplishment given its weak
operational capacity at the outset. UCRESEP effectively administered the funds, and performed oversight
of and coordinated various reform elements. In doing this, UCRESEP provided strong national leadership
and effectively transmitted foreign expertise. It played an especially important part in SIGFA's early
development and its integration in the overall public sector reform program. Also, it became the Borrowers
principal agent for the institutional restructuring activity, despite its lack of adequate high level
Government political support and authority. To some extent, in fact, carrying out the Project's managerial
responsibilities simultaneous with "line" direction of some of its components represented an undesirable
mixture of preferably independent roles, but UCRESEP merits credit for bridging and performing the two
roles effectively, as well as for taking helpful operational initiatives on its own.
Under strong leadership, UCRESEP gained significant expertise during project implementation with the
support of able consultants. In the process, it developed a core staff of knowledgeable professionals who
became familiar with methodologies and contracting goods and services, as well as their quality control.
The unit developed a good (but limited) project monitoring system and created an impressive project
library. All these contributed valuably to UCRESEP's expanded role over time to become the Government's
administrator for several IDA-supported projects, including EMTAC.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. On balance, the overall level of Government performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons were observed from this project:
a. Efforts to install performance contracts between government agencies which are intended to bring
about (particularly behavioral) changes need to include provisions for sufficiently attractive incentives to
overcome resistance to change and to generate support.
b. Performance contract efforts need to be based on realistic, clearly enunciated assumptions regarding
how the expected performance changes would be judged--and what would occur if they are not
accomplished.
c. The staffs of institutions targeted for reforms should be informed of the goals and methods to be
used in these activities simultaneously with, and as comprehensively as, the staffs of the organizations
charged with managing these activities. This may help to ensure consistency and common understandings
of the tasks and assignments of responsibilities.
- 13 -



d. Plans for comprehensive institutional reforms should call for careful sequencing of the steps
involved, accompanied by provisions for broader approaches when there is evidence of capacity increases
or other favorable indications of readiness for expansion.
e. Implementation of the new financial management system was enhanced by the application of a
comprehensive goveming concept: the adoption of a rule-based system, accompanied by consistent
procedures and regulations affecting sub-systems, supported by modem information technology and closely
supervised by rector organizations.
f. Different contemporaneous Bank-financed projects aiming at institutional reforms should be
coordinated to minimize inconsistencies and dissimilar provisions.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(See annex 8 for the Government's comments). A summary follows:
Governments wishing to successfully reform and modernize their public sectors in such situations as
Nicaragua's are advised to have the following elements:
--An integral plan with clear strategies for intervention and effective mechanisms
--Institutional and political leadership ensuring that the reform plan is developed with a suitable
political strategy, consistent with a national vision for sustainable, equitable development
--Strong commitment from the main Government authorities
--Effective central control of the reform plan, accompanied by continuing monitoring and evaluation
of its execution
--Ongoing assessments of the plan in the light of national policies and conditions
--Active involvement and interactions of the main reform agents
--Training activities accompanying the reform measures
--Ensuring the involvement of local experts and staffs as valid interlocutors and drawing on their
institutional knowledge
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
Initiabon of reforms to improve public  None of the indicators shown in the left  -A new nabonal law (No 290) on the
insitubons' performances and rabonalize  hand column were amended          Execubve Branch structure led to a reduced
their operatons                                                            number of public entities, and clearing out
duplicabons and overlapping missions.
- A basic framework for modemizing
- Establishment of the Insttutonal                                        Govemment agencies is now in place.
Restructurng Agreement (ARI) process as                                    Institutional restructunng agreements (ARls)
the method for modemizing public sector                                    with pilot ministries and other agencies set
agencies                                                                   models for designing and canying out their
changes.
- Identrficabon of individual agenaes'                                      - The ARIs constituted weaker
weaknesses and other defidendes, and                                       performance agreements than were intended.
undertaking their remediabon                                               However, they initiated changes in the pilot
institutons which carried out some+ parts of
their promised undertakings
- Ministry teams were trained to partcipate
in diagnostic studies and to plan
improvement measures. The ARls' principal
product was the redesign of some 70 work
processes and services in the
aforemenboned insttutons and other
agencies carrying out similar actvibes. These
redesigns are pmjected to generate 40-50%
reductions in the recurrent and other
expenses of these functons.
-The Natural Resource and Industry
Ministries are reported to have had 44% staff
cuts in administratve areas as a result.
Service delivery surveys were conducted to
gauge public perceptions of some
participating agencies' performances. Their
results led to changes in some seven
agencies' functions, e.g., urban transport
operations and the Social Security Instituftes
health services.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
- Establishment of the bases for a career civil                            -The proposed code in a draft law would
service system                                                             create a foundabon for a more professional,
merit-based Govemment personnel system,
-Legislative considerabon of a proposed                                    as well as Its management However, the
basic civil service code                                                   legislabon has not yet been passed.
- DIFUP is being changed from the
Govemment paymaster to becoming a cvil
service administation (subject to passage of
the aforementioned code)
- -Transformation of the Public Employee                                   -DIFUP moved to upgrade personnel units in
Directorate of the Finance Ministry (DIFUP)                                the line agencies. Steps were taken to
into a rector insttubon to govem personnel                                 establish a human resource management
administration                                                             information system, and provide manuals
regarding job descriptions and perfomiance
-Strengthened human resource                                               and job evaluabon.
management in line agencies
- 15 -



-Job dassificabon efforts were initated in
eight state organizatons covering 983
positions -
- Development of a job classification system                              - Work was begun on developing a model for
for the public administration                                             a public sector salary structure. The
Govemment meanwhile successfully
contained the cMi service's wage bill, which
-Rationalization of public sector wages                                   increased 2.8% (in real temms) over
1991-2000.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT-
-Establishment of an integrated system for                               - The first phases of the global "SIGFA"
planning, administeunng and controlling public                            program have been integratng elements of
funds on a potentially Government-wide                                    public financial management within the
basis.                                                                    Cental Govemment. 'SIGFA Central" links
budget, accounting, treasury and public
credi functons with common rules and
procedures A single database was
established for budget, accounting and
treasury actvitles. 'SIGFA CentraE began
operatng in the Finance Ministry in 1998 and
-Upgrading of budget formulation and                                      Is fully implemented. .
execution                                                                 -The budget has expanded significantly and
contains more detailed expenditure data. its
preparabon has been streamlined. .
Spending agencies now receive and
spend the amounts closer to budgeted levels.
Although full decentralizabon of budget
execution was not achieved, the agencies
gained greater discretion for budget
-Upgrading of accounting systems for                                      programming and reallocation of authorized
obtaining more accurate, timely data for                                  funds.
budgetng, allocating, controlling and
recording the uses of public funds                                        - The upgraded accountng system
encompassed improved organizatonal
arrangements and integrated computerized
recording and processing of btansactions.
-The system covers expendibures and
revenues. Double-entry and accrual
accountng were intrduced. Accounting
-Managing Govemment's cash assets on a                                    responsibilities were danfied. Financial
-Managing Govemmenfs cash assets on a                  ~~statements have been produced miore rapidly
more uniied, systematic basis                                             since 1998, along with realtme budget
executon infomaton.
- The "single bank account" concept is being
implemented in the Treasury. It would link
cash flow programming wdh budget
execution requirements in some 150
Govemment institutions.
- Central level cash management and
liquidity would consequently be improved.
Payrments to suppliers would be accelerated
-improvement of audit systems                                             - Some improvements are beginning to be
put in place. However, they have not yet
produced significant changes. And auditing
functions have not yet been integrated with
the budgetng and accounting system
-lightening procurement controls                                          changes.
- The Finance Ministrys surveillance of
Govemment purchasing was strengthened by
the creation of an oversight unit and a central
registry
- 16-



- Simultaneously, procurement actvities
have been decentralized following enactment
- Implementation of supporting modem                                       of a new law on Government contracbng and
informaabon technology network                                             purchasing. .
-More advanced IT platform and software in
the Finance Minisbry have provided a central
integrated database. This has enabled
registration of all financial transactions of
ministies and entties since January 1998.
-Comparable informabon systems had not
yet started up for "SIGFA Locar for other
agencies, or for the proposed new personnel
administration functions or management
-PRIVATIZATION                                                              -PRIVATIZATION
- Further Govemment effort to privatize the                              -Renewed assessment of market prospects
state telecommunications company (ENITEL)                                  for ENITELs privatzation and preparabon of
a September 2000 auction failed to elidt
satisfactory purchase offers. But the scheme
succeeded subsequently. In addition, the
Govemment in consultation wih IDA moved
to improve ENITEL's finances and
management
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT                                                        -A new technical secretariat analyses macro
performance and issues for the Presidents
-Strengthening of Govemnment economic                                      Office.
and financial analytc capabilites
-Measures were taken to launch, with civic
-Initiation of anti.corruption activities                                  groups parbcipating, a natonal campaign to
address problems regarding corrupton in
the public sector.
Output Indicators:
j$A;@      tcxtr/           Sx     i,r     jectd      InIatAPSRJ: +Z, AW/li                e    3    st'l
INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING
-CERAP was assisted to establish the
-Assist the cabinet Committee for the                                     management framework for, and to oversee,
Reform of the Public Administrabon                                         the overall sector modemizabon program.
(CERAP) to launch further public sector                                    The Coordinating Unit for Reform of the
modernization actvities, especially for Central                            Public Sector (UCRESEP) was assisted to
Govemment restructuring, integrated                                        carry out program operabons, as well as to
financial management and civil service                                     direct and supervise the implementabon of
reform                                                                     the Insttutional Development Project.
- Law 290 for streamlining the Central
Govemment's macro structure was prepared.
-Institutional restructuring agreements
(ARls) were signed with the Ministries of
Finance, Industry and Commerce, Transport
and Infrastructure, Environment and Natural
Resources, plus the Social Security Institute
and the Instite for Municipal Development
-Similar actvities were launched and partly
implemented by other institubons (e.g.,
Fomento, Familia, Accion Social), some
under the auspices of other Projects.
-Carry out diagnosbc studies in pilot                                       -Diagnostic studies were conducted in the
agencies and implement the refomis                                          economic, social, infrastructure, agriculture,
identfied                                                                   natural resource and public enterprise
sectors. These reviewed agencies'
- 17 -



structures, functions and legal issues, and
identfied requirements for changes in
processes.
-Carry out service delivery surveys for
montoring and evaluatons of insbtituional                                  - The Finance, Industry and Commerce,
performance                                                               Transport, Natural Resource ministies and
the Social Security and Municipal
Development instiutes and the National
Police conducted 20 service delivery surveys.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
-Designed legislabve proposals for approval
-P-opose the models for a merit-based civil                               of a basic code to govem public sector
service system and a supporting                                           personnel administrabon,
management information scheme                                              -Designed a supportng management
informabon system
- Strengthen the Directorate General for                                 -Assistance given to improve DIFUP's
Public Functons (DIFUP)                                                   structure, redefine its functions, train its staff
-Develop standard regulations to implement                                -Assistance given to prepare administrabve
the code and materials on supporting                                      regulabons for implementng the proposed
personnel functons                                                        legislaton, beginning job cdassifications in
pilot agencies, issuing manuals on
perfofmance evaluabon
- Deveiop a service-wide incentive-based
salary structure                                                          -A model for a Govemment-salary scheme
was drafted
- Train managers and staff of "ARI"
agenaies in new human resource                                            -Some 782 civil servants from 48 agencies
management procedures                                                    in both the Execubve and Legislative
Branches were trained in the projected new
personnel management system from
September 2000 to June 2001
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
-Develop and implement an integrated                                      -The first phases of the 'SIGFA Central"
financial management system's policies,                                   program were defined, designed and put in
standards and procedures                                                  place, mainly in the Finance Ministry. Core
subsystems were initiated for budgeting,
accounting and cash management
-A framework was designed for the
'SIGFA-Local" system to be installed in line
agencies, linked to "SIGFA Central"
-Passage of new organic legislation 
-Proposals were drafted for a projected
new financial administrabon law, which has
not yet been approved
-Upgrade budget formulabon and execution                                  -Designed and installed new policies and
procedures to govem budget preparation,
programming and evaluaton in the Finance
Ministry and other institutons -
-Designed and installed budget classificabon
charts related to new accounts charter
-Designed expansion of national budget
document to more fully encompass Central
Govemment operatons
-Designed and assisted in decentralizabon
-Upgrade accounting system to better                                      of budget execution to spending agencies
classify, record and faciltate analysis of
Central Govemment financial transacbons                                    -Designed and helped install common
accountng framework, and chart of accounts
based on new budget classificabon and
information registry system
- 18 -



-Developed a new accountng manual
prescribing principles, standards, reporting
requirements
- Helped strengthen the Finance Ministry's
accounbing departrnent, which was charged
with posting accounting
-Strengthening auditing
-Designed computerized recording and
processing of financial transachons
-Designed changes in auditng systems
-Manage Govemment cash assets centrally
to better unify receipt and control of                                     - Helped diagnose intemal audit units of
revenues, and monitor flows and payments                                   Central Govemment agencies and train
many of their auditors
-Designed "single bank account concept' in
Treasury as part of the integration of
Govemment payment activties
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                                                     INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
-Assist in the installation of computerized                                -Installed hardware and software for
system for financial management within the                                 advanced electronic information technology,
Finance Ministry and other Central                                         supporting modemized financial management
Govemment institutions                                                     concepts, for 'SIGFA Centrar'.
-Designed a similar system for "SIGFA
Local'
-Conduct comprehensive training programs                                   -Trained 3,418 managers and technicians in
for development of and sustaining the new                                  these systems' concepts and rules
systems
PRIVATIZATION                                                               PRIVATIZATION
- Assist preparation of new campaign for                                   -Specialist services provided to advise on
proposed sale of some ENITEL shares                                        the promotion of the sales transaction
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT                                                        ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
-Establish macroeconomic policy staff in the                                -Created and staffed a secretariat (SETEC)
Office of the Presidency                                                   to provide economic and financial analyses
- Assist in strengthening public sector                                    - Helped a Nabonal Integrity Committee
integrity                                                                  convene a national seminar and survey
citizens' opinions regarding public sector
corTuption.
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  Actual1Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component          US$ million  US$ million
Consultant Services                              22.90         22.83         99.69
Goods and Equipment                               2.60          1.98         76.15
Training                                          3.40          1.70            50
Operating Expenses                                3.80          0.78         20.53
Total Baseline Cost                              32.70         27.29
Price Contingencies                              0.80          1.18         147.5
Total Project Costs           33.50         28.47
Total Financing Required           33.50         28.47
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E-xpenditure Category    CB       Pcurement Method           NB.F.     To   Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                   0.00         0.00         3.30        0.00        3.30
(0.00)      (0.00)       (2.90)       (0.00)      (2.90)
3. Services                0.00         0.00        17.10        7.20        24.30
(0.00)      (0.00)       (17.10)      (0.00)     (17.10)
4. Training                 0.00        0.00         3.00        0.60         3.60
(0.00)      (0.00)       (3.00)       (0.00)      (3.00)
5. Operating Expenses      0.00         0.00         0.00        2.30        2.30
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00        23.40        10.10       33.50
(0.00)      (0.00)       (23.00)      (0.00)     (23.00)
Project Costs b Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                   0.88         0.00         1.01        0.00        1.98
(0.88)      (0.00)       (0.87)      (0.00)      (1.75)
3. Services                8.05         0.00         8.78        6.00       22.83
(8.05)      (0.00)       (8.78)      (0.00)      (16.78)
4. Training                0.00         0.00         1.35        0.35        1.70
(0.00)      (0.00)       (1.35)      (0.00)      (1.35)
5. ENITEL                                            1.00                    1.00
______________________  ____________  ___________   (1.00)        (1.00)
-20 -



6. CNI2                                                     0.18                        0.18
(0.18)                      (0.18)
5. Operating Expenses           0.00          0.00          0.77          0.01          0.78
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.42)        (0.00)        (0.42)
Total                        8.93          0.00          13.09         6.45          28.47
(8.93)        (0.00)        (12.60)       (0.00)        (21.53)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21
CNI - National Integrity Component
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Institutional Restructuring  5.70  0.57               7.47                0.49    131.1   0.0
Civil Service Reform     2.70      0.27               3.32                        123.0   0.0
Integrated Financial     2.90      0.29     6.80      5.44                5.96    187.6   0.0    87.6
Management
Information Technology   5.60      0.56               2.81                         50.2   0.0
System
Training                 2.70      0.27     0.40                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Reform Management        2.60      0.26      1.00     1.32       0.49              50.8  188.5   0.0
ENITEL                   0.80      0.08               0.99                        123.8   0.0
CNI 1/                                                0.18
"CNI - National Integrity Component
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Ratirig
*3(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS,-etc.)        Implementation I)velopment
Month/Year,   Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/11/95                    4   PSM, Specialist                   S             S
3   Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/12/96                    3   Civil Service, Information,       S             S
4   Consultants
Supervision
06/30/1998                  9   PS, FIN, INFO, ECO, PRO,          S             S
Train, HR
ICR
05/11/2001                  5    PS, IT, HR, Procurement          S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Nqo. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             44.50                     105.80
Appraisal/Negotiation                  16.90                      43.90
Supervision                            75.20                     175.92
ICR
Total
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
Fl Macro policies                     O H O SU * M    O N O NA
Oi Sector Policies                    OH   *SUOM ON        O NA
OI Physical                           O H  OSUOM      O N * NA
L Financial                           O H OSUOM       O N * NA
L Institutional Development           0 H  * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OL Environmental                      O H OSUOM       O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM O N * NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development          0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
I Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      ON * NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
Oi Lending                                         OHS*S       Ou     OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS      OU     O HU
rO1 Overall                                        OHS OS      O U    Q HU
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
D Preparation                                      OHS OS      O    U  Q HU
OI Government implementation performance           O HS I S    0 U    0 HU
LO Implementation agencyperformance                O HS OS     O U    0 HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS      O U    O HU
-25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide memoire, IDA supervision mission, September 28, 2001 (project file)
-26 -



Additional Annex 8. Government Statement
Balance General del Proyecto de Desarrollo Institucional
TABLA DE CONTENIDO
I.   Introducci6n
II.  Antecedentes
III. Organizaci6n del Provecto
IV. Desarrollo v Eiecuci6n del Provecto v sus Componentes
V.   Logros v Resultados: Avrendizaie metodol6sico v generacion
de un lengiuaie comun
A.    Reestructuracion de Instituciones Puiblicas
B.    Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera Integrada
C.    Reforma del Servicio Civil
D.    Capacidad Local: Transferencia de conocimientos y
herramientas
E.    Probidad y Transparencia en los 6rganos del Estado
F.    Administraci6n del Proyecto
VI. Evaluaci6n Critica del Provecto
A.    Supuestos del Proyecto
B.    Disefio y monitoreo
C.    Organizaci6n
VII. Lecciones v rincipales desafios
-27-



I. Introducci6n
La Modernizaci6n del Estado es uno de los temas de mayor relevancia en la agenda politica de los
gobiemos de la America Latina. En efecto, el Estado es afectado por el contexto intemacional en el cual el
desarrollo del mercado mundial pone de relieve la incidencia de las actividades puiblicas sobre la
competitividad nacional e intemacional. Al mismo tiempo, se percibe que la globalizaci6n no solamente es
econ6mica, sino tambien "la consecuencia de la transformaci6n de los modos de producci6n ligada a la
tercera revoluci6n industrial de la informaci6n y la informatica" (Pierre Rosanvallon, La Globalizaci6n
exige un Nuevo Contrato Social, PNUD, Santiago de Chile, 1999).
El uso de las nuevas tecnologias de informaci6n nos lleva a nuevos modelos de sociedad; en este caso la
sociedad en red, una nueva economia, la economia informacional global. La tecnologia de la informaci6n,
hoy en dia, es la herramienta indispensable para la puesta en marcha efectiva de los procesos de
reestructuraci6n econ6mica. Esta realidad es la que transforma todos los ambitos de la actividad huinana,
cultural, politica, social y econ6mica; es un nuevo momento, de gran velocidad y aceleraci6n de los hechos.
Asimismo, y este no es un dato menor, los niveles de desigualdad y pobreza han aumentado
considerablemente en los uiltimos 20 afios. Arn6rica Latina posee hoy rnas de 220 millones de pobres.
Algunos de los rasgos centrales de nuestra regi6n, y por ende de Nicaragua, son la desigualdad y la
polarizaci6n social crecientes, la concentraci6n de la renta por parte de sectores minoritarios, y el declive y
estancamiento en el acceso al ingreso y a los bienes y servicios de mis de 70 % de la poblaci6n.
En este marco, se revela la necesidad del Estado Nicaraguense de realizar cambios sustanciales en el
funcionamiento del sector puiblico. Es una convicci6n acerca de la necesidad de emprender profundas
reformas, las cuales tienen relaci6n con el fortalecimiento de la capacidad del Estado para responder a estos
desafios y asumir los nuevos disefios y roles para operar los cambios necesarios. Estas son cuestiones
cruciales que determinan las opciones de las autoridades politicas, la actividad de los funcionarios, la vida
de los ciudadanos y que, en consecuencia, afectan los fundamentos mismos del Estado. Se impone, desde
nuestra particular realidad, por un lado, redisefiar y reorganizar la estructura del Estado segin las actuales
exigencias y desafios y por otro, mejorar la gesti6n de sus instituciones en vista de prestar mejores servicios
a la ciudadania.
El Gobierno de Nicaragua, teniendo presente este tipo de desafios, asumi6 -a trav6s del Proyecto de
Desarrollo Institucional del Programa de Reforma y Modernizaci6n del Sector Piiblico-la tarea de disefiar
y ejecutar un esfuerzo coherente de fortalecimiento institucional del Poder Ejecutivo, que diese un sentido
de racionalidad y orden al proceso de reducci6n del tamafio de la Administraci6n Nblica nicaraguiense,
iniciado desde 1990.
Este documento intenta recuperar la historia, las limitaciones y los alcances del Proyecto de Desarrollo
Institucional desde su inicio en 1994 a la fecha de cierre en Junio de 2001. Es un Balance General, de orden
cualitativo, cuyo contenido central esta dado por dos grandes ejes: los logros y aprendizajes adquiridos y
los aspectos criticos del Proyecto de Desarrollo Institucional, mas conocido como el credito 2690-Ni, con el
que se financi6 parcialmente.
II. Antecedentes
En 1990, despues de una decada de polarizaci6n politica y social, conflictos armados y altos niveles de
inflaci6n, el Gobiemo de Nicaragua implement6 con el apoyo del Fondo Monetario Internacional (FMI), un
-28 -



Programa de Estabilizaci6n Macro-econ6mica y, con el apoyo de la Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento
(AIF) del Banco Mundial, un programa de Ajuste Estructural de la economia nicaragiiense. Ambos
programas buscaban transformar la economia nicaragiiense en una economia de mercado capaz de permitir
el desarrollo econ6mico sostenible del pais.
Estos programas permitieron alcanzar significativos logros de estabilizaci6n y ajuste, contribuyendo al giro
del pais hacia la economia de mercado, la competitividad y Ja modemizaci6n de sector privado que
demandaba un giro similar en el quehacer puiblico. Esto ultimo, sumado al predominio mundial de la idea
de un nuevo papel del Estado dieron lugar a una serie de transformaciones en diversos sectores en que
operaba el Estado. Uno de ellos es la propia Administraci6n Publica con el Programa de Reforma y
Modernizaci6n del Sector Nblico establecido en Octubre de 1994, mediante el decreto presidencial No.
44-94, con el fin de crear un sector publico modemo, pequefio, fuerte, eficiente y que facilitara la gesti6n
privada.
El Programa de Reforna y Modemizaci6n del Sector Publico estA dirigido a efectuar la reorganizaci6n
estructural y administrativa de la administraci6n piiblca nicaragiiense, revertir la baja productividad del
gasto puiblico, elevar la eficiencia y calidad de las prestaciones, mejorar la asignaci6n, administraci6n y
utilizaci6n de los recursos, jerarquizar sus cuadros gerenciales y tecnicos, y fortalecer la capacidad de
decisi6n y gesti6n de los servicios en las areas o funciones indelegables del Estado, todo ello en el ambito
del Poder Ejecutivo.
Para fines de 1994, el sector puiblico no financiero era muy grande y caracterizado por una entrega
ineficiente de servicios, procesos burocriticos y rudimentarios, administraci6n de recursos humanos
practicamente inexistente, tecnologia obsoleta y perdida de recursos humanos valiosos, ademAs de misi6n,
objetivos, funciones y estructuras inadecuadas Esta situaci6n demandaba una reforma estructural del
aparato piublico con el fin de facilitar el disefio y la implantaci6n de politicas puiblicas de desarrollo de
mayor impacto econ6mico y social.
Ante esta situaci6n, el Gobiemo de Nicaragua aceler6 el proceso de puesta en marcha de un Proyecto de
Desarrollo Institucional comprehensivo y coherente, que pernitiera reducir el tamaino del sector piiblico y
corregir las deficiencias que aun prevalecian en este. Para ello solicit6 la asistencia tecnica y financiera a
organismos bilaterales y multilaterales como la Agencia para el Desarrollo Internacional del Gobiemo de
los Estados Unidos de America (USAID), el Banco Mundial y el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(BID).
Asi, en Marzo de 1995, el Gobiemo de Nicaragua y la Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento (AIF) del
Banco Mundial suscribieron el Convenio de Credito No. 2690-Ni para la ejecuci6n del Proyecto de
Desarrollo Institucional.
Los objetivos del Proyecto acordados en el Convenio fueron: (a) mejorar la prestaci6n de los servicios
publicos de las instituciones reestructuradas por el Proyecto y (b) racionalizar el gasto piiblico a fin de
incrementar los ahorros puiblicos.
Para el logro estos objetivos, el Proyecto se desagreg6, en un undco, en los sigtlentes componentes:
A.     Reestructuraci6n de Instituciones Nblicas (Reestructuraci6n Institucional).
B.     Refonna del Servicio Civil.
C.     Reforma Integral de la Administraci6n Financiera (mAs conocido como SIGFA).
D.     Tecnologia de Informaci6n.
- 29 -



E.     Administracion del Proyecto.
m. Organizaci6n del Proyecto
Casi en paralelo con la suscripci6n del Convenio de Cr6dito No. 2690-Ni, el gobiemo de Nicaragua creo en
octubre de 1994, mediante el mismo Decreto Presidencial No. 44-94, el Comite Ejecutivo para la Reforma
de la Administraci6n Publica (CERAP), siete Comisiones Sectoriales de Reforma, la Secretaria Ejecutiva
para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica y la Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Programa de Reforma y
Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico (UCRESEP).
CERAP fue creada en el anbito de la Presidencia de la Repu.blica, a fm de "integrar y dar continuidad a las
politicas emprendidas por el Gobiemo tendentes a consolidar la estabilizaci6n econ6mica y crear una
Administraci6n Publica, moderna, pequefia, fuerte, eficiente y facilitadora" y con la responsabilidad de
dirigir el Programa de Reforma y Modemizaci6n del Sector PuTblico.
Inicialmente, CERAP estuvo coordinado por el Ministro de la Presidencia y su sede administrativa
funcionaba en el Ministerio de la Presidencia. A partir de Febrero de 1998, segun el Decreto Presidencial
No. 10-98 que reforma al Decreto Presidencial No. 44-94, la coordinaci6n de CERAP pas6 a estar a cargo
del Vicepresidente de la Republica y su sede administrativa a funcionar en la Vicepresidencia de la
Republica.
Las Comisiones Sectoriales de Reforma se crearon con el objeto de actuar como "responsables de asegurar
la implantaci6n de los procesos de reformas estructurales que conllevan la participaci6n de varias
instituciones o empresas del sector correspondiente, para diseiiar y proponer planes y programas de las
reformas del sector acordes con las politicas gubemamentales y sobre la base de propuestas presentadas
por los consultores y/o equipos tecnicos, a fin de presentar altemativas viables" al CERAP para su decisi6n
final. Estas comisiones son: Comisi6n Sectorial para la Descentralizaci6n; Comisi6n Sectorial para la
Reforma de las Empresas Puiblicas; Comisi6n Sectorial para al Reforma del Sector Financiero Estatal;
Comisi6n para la Reforma del Servicio Civil y Carrera Admninistrativa; Comisi6n para Reforma de la
Administraci6n Financiera y Control Gubemamnental; Comisi6n para la Reforma Administrativa; y
Comisi6n Sectorial para la Reforma de la Seguridad Social y Bienestar.
La Secretaria Ejecutiva para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica es ejercida por un Secretario
Ejecutivo que tiene la responsabilidad de velar por la ejecuci6n, supervisi6n y seguimiento de los planes y
programas que sean aprobados por el CERAP. Hasta febrero de 1998 el Secretario Ejecutivo era el
Viceministro de Finanzas por mandato del Decreto Presidencial No. 44-94, pero a partir de esa fecha, y
segmn el Decreto Presidencial No. 10-98, es nombrado por el Presidente de la Repuiblica.
UCRESEP, por su parte, fue creada inicialrnente en el ambito del Ministerio de Finanzas (ahora Ministerio
de Hacienda y Credito Piblico) con la responsabilidad de "brindar apoyo tecnico y operativo a la
Secretaria Ejecutiva (de CERAP), servir de enlace con los Organismo Intemacionales y administrar los
recursos fmancieros del Banco Mundial y de cualquier otro Organismo multilateral y/o bilateral que asi lo
requiera". Con el Decreto Presidencial No. 10-98, UCRESEP paso a funcionar en el ambito de la
Vicepresidencia de la Repuiblica.
Esta Unidad es dirigida por un "Coordinador Tecnico con la funci6n de brindar apoyo tecnico y operativo
en la ejecuci6n de los Proyectos de la Reforma a fin de poder centralizar toda la informaci6n y
documentaci6n respectiva".
- 30 -



En este marco, siguiendo lo previsto en la fase de disefno del Proyecto y lo acordado por el Gobierno de
Nicaragua con el Banco Mundial en el marco del Convenio de Credito No. 2690-Ni, el Ministerio de
Finanzas procedi6 en 1995 a la contrataci6n del Coordinador Tecnico y del equipo t6cnico y operativo de
UCRESEP, conformado por consultores nacionales responsables de la coordinaci6n tecnica de los
componentes del Proyecto y del manejo administrativo y financiero del credito. Estos consultores fueron
responsables de preparar las condiciones para la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, lo que en ese momento consisti6,
primordialmente, en la selecci6n y contrataci6n de la asistencia tecnica internacional para la ejecuci6n de
cada uno de los componentes del Proyecto. Esta labor se extendi6 hasta el segundo semestre de 1996.
IV. Desarrollo y Ejecuci6n del Proyecto y sus Componentes
El mecanismo de ejecuci6n y desarrollo del Proyecto, tal como fue disefiado, se estructur6 de la siguiente
manera:
-      Establecimiento del componente de Reestructuraci6n Institucional como eje central del Proyecto,
que a su vez ejerceria la coordinaci6n general de los demas componentes Esto en vista de dos elementos
centrales: el primero tene que ver con la facultad de mejorar la capacidad de gesti6n del Estado a traves del mejoramiento de
los procesos y procedimientos de sus instituciones y que estos se traduzcan en una politica orentada a resultados; generando
asi ahorro del gasto publico. El segundo es el hecho de que este mejoramiento s6lo tiene su raz6n de ser en la medida que se
traduzcan en servicios de calidad y pertinentes para los ciudadanos..
-      Suscripcion de Acuerdos de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (ARI) El ARI, con vigencia de dos aflos, es
una especie de contrato en el cual se establecen los objetivos de la reforma institucional; un plan de acci6n para lograr esos
objetivos; la obligad6n de la instituci6n de implantar todos los procesos de reforma necesarios para su modemizaci6n y
fortalecimiento; y los recursos que CERAP aporta al proceso en forma de asistencia tecnica, bienes de tecnologia de la
informaci6n y capacitaci6n necesaria para el cambio. entre CERAP y las instituciones participantes, como
instrumento clave para llevara a cabo la ejecuci6n prevista para cada componente en dos niveles: asistencia
tecnica y capacitaci6n.
-      Contrataci6n, de manera independiente, de asistencia tecnica con experiencia internacional para la
ejecuci6n de cada componente. El consorcio Cincorp-Hay, la firma Coopers & Lybrand y un grupo diverso
de firmas pequenias para el SIGFA (Dai-Sidepro, Tekii, etc.) fueron seleccionadas y contratadas por
UCRESEP, sobre la base de competitividad.
-      Capacitaci6n transversal pero centralizada en el Instituto Nicaragiuense de Administraci6n Piblica
(INAP). Posterior a la fecha de cierre del INAP en 1997, la capacitacion se descentraliz6 en cada
componente y fue asumida, principalmente, por la misma asistencia tecnica intemacional contratada.
De esta forma, la firma Coopers & Lybrand, posteriormente PricewaterhouseCoopers, fue contratada con
el fin de ejecutar el componente de Reestructuraci6n Institucional, especificamente para:
-      Asistir al CERAP para establecer y operar el proceso de los Acuerdos de Reestructuraci6n
Institucional (ARI) en las instituciones participantes.
-      Proveer asistencia tecnica directa a las instituciones ejecutoras de los ARI.
-      Diseniar y elaborar diagn6sticos para las instituciones que entrarian en los procesos ARI.
-      Apoyar al CERAP en sus esfuerzos para establecer e implementar el Sistema de Evaluaci6n de
Servicios (SES) para establecer el punto de partida de cada instituci6n que entrara en el proceso ARI y
evaluar peri6dicamente la mejora en la capacidad para entregar servicios.
-      Apoyar al CERAP para conducir las evaluaciones de ejecuci6n de los ARI.
-      Proveer experticia profesional para diseniar e implementar programas de entrenamiento gerencial y
tecnico.
-      Asistir en la coordinaci6n de otros contratistas institucionales que esten proveyendo asistencia
- 31 -



tecnica a las instituciones participantes en los ARI.
Por su parte, el consorcio denominado Cincorp-Hay fue contratado para apoyar a la Comisi6n Sectorial de
Servicio Civil y a la Direcci6n General de la Funci6n Publica (DIGEFUP) del Ministerio de Finanzas, en lo
siguiente:
-      Elaborar y someter a aprobaci6n un c6digo de servicio civil basado en el merito.
-      Desarrollar un conjunto de regulaciones estandarizadas que cubran todos los aspectos de la
administraci6n de personal.
-      Profundizar el desarrollo y mantenimiento de un sistema gubemamental de clasificaci6n de puestos
y el apoyo para el establecimiento de un registro computarizado.
-      Desarrollar una estructura salarial con base en incentivos y la capacidad para mejorar
peri6dicamente los salarios a traves de investigaciones del mercado salarial.
-      Disefiar y ejecutar efectivamente reducciones de personal que resulten del analisis funcional y del
proceso de reestructuraci6n institucional.
-      Desarrollar y aplicar procesos apropiados de reclutamiento y selecci6n de personal.
-      Fortalecer la capacidad tecnica y Gerencial de DIGEFUP para poder cumplir con sus
responsabilidades como rector del sistema de servicio civil.
Adicionalmente, a nivel de las instituciones que participaron en el proceso de los ARI, Cincorp-Hay en
conjunto con la DIGEFUP, proveeria asistencia tecnica para mejorar las divisiones de recursos humanos y
sus practicas, asistirfa a DIGEFUP e INAP en el disenlo y ejecuci6n de un programa de entrenamiento en
administraci6n de recursos humanos, y coordinaria las actividades de entrenamiento asociadas con el
componente de Administraci6n Financiera Integrada y Tecnologia de Informaci6n.
En cuanto at componente de Reforma Integral de la Administraci6n Financiera se refiere, bajo la direcci6n
de un experto nacional seleccionado para tal tarea, se contrat6 a un grupo de empresas para asistir al
entonces Ministerio de Finanzas y a la Comisi6n Sectorial de Administraci6n Financiera y Control en el
desarrollo de un programa de fortalecimiento y mejora del ciclo de formulaci6n, programaci6n y evaluaci6n
presupuestaria; de los metodos contables y de tesoreria; de la administraci6n de las contrataciones del
Estado; y del manejo de la deuda puiblica intema y extema. Adicionalmente, se pretendia fortalecer los
metodos de trabajo de las Unidades de Auditoria Interna para que funcionaran apropiadamente en las
instituciones participantes en el proceso de Reestructuraci6n Institucional.
Lo anterior fue reforzado con la concepci6n del Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera, Administrativa y
de Auditoria (SIGFA), sistema basado en una aplicaci6n informatica donada por el Gobierno de la
Repuiblica de Argentina. El SIGFA funcionaria bajo el concepto de descentralizaci6n operativa y
centralizaci6n normativa, fundado -a su vez-en el establecimiento de un sistema contable uniforme y
automatizado.
Con la asistencia tecnica intemacional contratada con recursos del Cr6dito No. 2690-Ni se cubrieron los
aspectos presupuestarios y de auditoria intema de las instituciones participantes. Con los recursos de la
USAID se trabajaria el subsistema contable, se fortaleceria la capacidad de auditoria extema de la
Contraloria General de la Repuiblica y se contrataria la direcci6n internacional del componente. Con los
recursos del BID se desarrollarian los subsistemas de tesoreria, credito pu.blico y compras.
Finalmente, en el componente de Tecnologia de Informaci6n, la asistencia t6cnica nacional e intemacional
contratada asistiria a la Direcci6n General de Informatica Nacional del Ministerio de Finanzas en el disefio
e implementaci6n de los sistemas de informaci6n relacionados con el SIGFA y Servicio Civil. Tambien se
- 32 -



harian, en el marco de este componente y bajo la Direcci6n Tecnica Nacional del SIGFA y la DIGEFUP,
las compras, instalaci6n y entrenamiento sobre hardware, software y comunicaciones requeridos por el
Ministerio de Finanzas y las instituciones participantes. Al igual que en las ofras actividades de los otros
componentes, el apoyo en tecnologia informAtica seria estructurado y entregado a traves de los ARI.
V. Logros y Resultados: Aprendizaje metodol6gico y generaci6n de un lenguaje comuin
Un resultado no expresado como tal en el diseiio del Proyecto de Desarrollo Institucional, pero claramente
necesario y alcanzado durante su ejecuci6n (1995-2001), ha sido el posicionamiento del tema de la
Reforma del Estado en la agenda politica. Todos los sectores aceptan, hoy en dia, que el tema de la
modernizaci6n y el mejoramiento de la capacidad de gesti6n de las instituciones puiblicas es una de las
tareas criticas para impulsar el desarrollo de Nicaragua.
Precisamente de este posicionaniiento, que se tradujo en agendas concretas de trabajo a nivel institucional y
de todo el Poder Ejecutivo en su conjunto, es que se derivan los productos, resultados y logros obtenidos a
lo largo de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto que se sintetizan en este apartado.
A. Reestructuracion de Instituciones Puiblicas
Cultura de los resultados y adopci6n de herramientas de gesti6n
A traves de los cuatro ejes temAticos del Proyecto, pero principalmente a traves de Reestructuraci6n
Institucional, se introdujo una cultura de orientaci6n al usuario; se entregaron elementos de planificaci6n
estrategica, definici6n de objetivos y mejoramiento de infraestructura; y se produjeron infornes de
diagn6sticos institucionales y sectoriales sobre la situaci6n y actuaci6n de las instituciones puiblicas.
Todo esto llev6 a enfatizar que el sector puiblico nicaraguense debia pasar desde una l6gica y estilo de
gesti6n basado en los procedimientos y controles burocratico-administrativos a una l6gica gerencial basada
en los resultados.
Estrategias y Metodologias de Intervenci6n
El Proyecto introdujo una estrategia y metodologia que merece ser destacada, a lo menos como principio,
tanto en la idea de establecer diagn6sticos, como en la intervenci6n'a traves de los ARI y la creaci6n de
equipos de alto rendimiento como elemento fumdamental para el fortaleciiniento de capacidades instaladas
en las instituciones puiblicas.
Tambien puso especial enfasis en el mejoramiento de procesos y de la calidad de atenci6n al usuario. Esto
mediante programnas y aplicaci6n de instrumentos de satisfacci6n al usuario (como las Encuestas de
Prestaci6n de Servicios del Sistema de Evaluaci6n de Servicios - SES) y la formulaci6n de metas con sus
respectivos indicadores, los que tuvieron su expresi6n mayor en la constituci6n de los compromisos de
ARI.
Con esto, se puede decir, el Proyecto introduce en los funcionarios puiblicos de los organismos
participantes, un lenguaje comun en materias relativas a instrumentos y herramientas de gesti6n. En otros
terminos, el Proyecto permiti6 que el sector puiblico nicaragilense iniciara, con miras a seguir mejorando y
perfeccionar, una cultura de la gesti6n y de los resultados, para lo cual se cuenta hoy en dia con nuevas
practicas y formas de gesti6n incorporadas al ciclo de vida permanente de las instituciones publicas.
- 33 -



Reingenieria de procesos y mejores servicios para los usuarios
CERAP suscribi6 siete ARI, un Convenio de Asistencia T6cnica y brind6 asistencia tecnica, sin un
convenio formal, a dos entidades del Poder Ejecutivo. Como resultado de ello se identificaron y redisefiaron
alrededor de setenta procesos clave con ahorros estimados, para algunos procesos, de mas del 40% del
costo recurrente de personal y 50% de otros gastos al momento de ser implantados los redisenios.
Adicionalmente, en el marco del denominado Sistema de Evaluaci6n de Servicios, se diseinaron y
desarrollaron Encuestas de Prestaci6n de Servicios como una herramienta de gerencia para definir,
monitorear y evaluar acciones de reforma y modernizacion de los procesos de entrega de servicios, con el
fin de mejorar su prestaci6n a la poblaci6n usuaria. Un caso exitoso fue la mejora en la atenci6n medica a
los asegurados del Modelo de Salud Previsional del Instituto Nicaragulense de Seguridad Social.
Reordenamiento del sector publico: Funciones y responsabilidades
Como producto del mandato legal de que el Presidente debe entregar su organizaci6n, competencia y
procedimientos al Poder Legislativo (Ley Marco, Ley No. 199, y Ley de Reforma Parcial de la
Constituci6n, Ley No. 192), se incorpor6 al Proyecto el aspecto macro-organizacional orientado
fundamentalmente a la reducci6n -ordenada, coherente y con criterios de eficiencia-del nrumero de
Ministerios de Estado, entes descentralizados y desconcentrados del Poder Ejecutivo.
Esta reducci6n se realiz6 a partir de la aprobaci6n de la Ley de Organizaci6n, Competencia y
Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo (Ley No. 290) y de un conjunto de decretos ejecutivos que pusieron las
bases para ordenar el Poder Ejecutivo, entre los cuales destaca el Reglamento de la Ley No. 290. En este
reglamento se definen las estructuras organizativas, responsabilidades y competencias fundamentales, de
los Ministerios de Estado, a partir de las cuales se conforma el Presupuesto General de la Repiublica desde
el afno 2000.
Este esfuerzo tuvo como resultado la reducci6n del nuimero de instituciones de la administraci6n puiblica de
67 a 60 y de los cargos ejecutivos de los Ministerios de Estado de un total de 476 a 300 plazas e instancias;
el fortaleciniento de los niveles de coordinaci6n y direcci6n estrategica del accionar del sector puiblico; la
eliminaci6n de duplicidades y redundancias y la redefinici6n de funciones en areas clave; la creaci6n de
instancias estrat6gicas para fortalecer las capacidades del Gobiemo en areas criticas de formulaci6n de
politicas puiblicas; y la clara asignaci6n de roles a instituciones fundamentales.
Un producto de la reorganizaci6n del Poder Ejecutivo que merece especial menci6n es la creaci6n de la
Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia (SETEC), con el fin de proveer asistencia tecnica al Presidente de la
Republica y los Gabinetes de Gobiemo en materia de politica econ6mica y social, dirigir el disefio de un
plan socio-econ6mico de corto y mediano plazo, monitorear el desempenio macro-econ6mico, dirigir el
Sistema Nacional de Inversiones Puiblicas, promover la consistencia de la politica social y econ6mica, y
participar en la formulaci6n de politicas de privatizaci6n.
B. Sistema de Administracidn Financiera Integrada
Con el fin de fortalecer el manejo integrado de las fmanzas del sector publico y elevar su transparencia, se
adapt6 el Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera (SIDIF), sistema informatico donado por el
Gobiemo de la Argentina que operaba de manera centralizada. En su adaptaci6n y puesta en marcha se
amplio conceptualnente de tal forma que permitiera la descentralizaci6n operativa, y la gesti6n
- 34 -



administrativa y de control interno y extemo.
A partir de este punto de adaptaci6n,  se instaura el Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera,
Administrativa y de Auditoria (SIGFA) como "un conjunto de normas tanto legales, reglamentarias y
procedimentales que tienen como funci6n establecer controles intemos, a traves del cual se administran y
contabilizan la ejecuci6n fmanciera del Presupuesto General de la Repuiblica, asi como de los recursos bajo
la responsabilidad de la Tesoreria General de la Repuiblica".
Con el SIGFA, el Proyecto cumpli6 con una primera etapa de fortalecimiento de los sistemas
administrativos y de orden normativo a nivel central en el Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(MHCP) al permitir a los entes rectores el registro centralizado de las transacciones presupuestarias y la
generaci6n automatica de la contabilidad patrimonial. Quizas el principal resultado alcanzado se resuma en
el hecho que el 31 de Diciembre de 1998, por primera vez en la historia de las finanzas puiblicas de
Nicaragua, se obtuvo un cierre de la ejecuci6n del presupuesto del afno, con sus respectivos estados
contables y patrimoniales, y con informaci6n confiable y perfectamente auditable. Sin embargo, hay
algunos otros productos dignos de ser retomados:
-      Se desarrollaron, implantaron y documentaron los procesos de formulaci6n, programaci6n y
evaluaci6n del presupuesto.
-      Se desarroll6 un sistema de Contabilidad y Control que ha fortalecido la capacidad para ejecutar
auditoria intema y auditoria extema.
-      Se moderniz6 el sistema de administraci6n de la n6mina fiscal.
-      Se implant6 el sistema SIGADE para el registro y administraci6n de la deuda puiblica interna y
extema.
-      Se desarroll6 una aplicaci6n informAtica para la administraci6n de compras y contrataciones del
Estado.
Adicionalmente, se fortaleci6 la Tesoreria General de la Repuiblica organizando un sistema de Caja UJnica
integrada al sistema de contabilidad, el cual permite una mayor racionalidad en el manejo de los flujos de
fondos del gobiemo, conciliaciones automaticas de las cuentas bancarias del Tesoro, y se dieron los
primeros pasos para organizar un sistema de programaci6n financiera.
C. Reforma del Servicio Civil
Se desarroll6 y propuso una politica de Recursos Humranos basada en el m6rito, para lo cual se diseni6 el
modelo de funci6n piblica, se elaboraron los manuales metodol6gicos de cada uno de los sistemas de
gesti6n de Recursos Humanos que preve el modelo, se disefi6 el Sistema de Informaci6n del servicio Civil
(SISEC), se prepar6 un Anteproyecto de Ley de Servicio Civil y de Carrera Administrativa y su
Reglamento, y se desarroll6 un proceso de transferencia metodol6gica sobre dicho modelo y sus diferentes
sistemas a traves de la capacitaci6n del personal t6cnico de la DIGEFUP y de las areas de Recursos
Humanos de las instituciones piblicas participando en el proceso.
En este marco, y para dar continuidad a las acciones de reforma, se cre6 la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto
de Reforma del Servicio Civil en el Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piblico (MHCP) con el fin de dar
seguimiento al proceso de aprobaci6n del Anteproyecto de Ley y crear las condiciones necesarias para
implantar el nuevo modelo de funci6n piublica una vez que esta sea aprobada.
Cabe destacar que estos productos se obtuvieron como resultado de un proceso altamente participativo e
interactivo, acompaniado de un fuerte plan de capacitaci6n sobre cada uno de los sistemas de gesti6n de
- 35 -



recursos humanos que conforman el modelo. Esta labor conllev6 que en varias instituciones de la
administracion publica se creara conciencia sobre la importancia y necesidad de contar con instrumentos de
gerencia de recursos humanos. Esto iltimo se ha traducido en la iniciativa de al menos cuatro Ministerios
de fortalecer sus instancias de recursos humanos con la aplicaci6n de algunos de los sistemas dentro del
marco de la legislaci6n vigente actual como es el C6digo del Trabajo.
En cuanto a la calidad de los logros y de los resultados obtenidos en estos dos filtimos componentes
(Reforma de la Administraci6n Financiera y Reforma del Servicio Civil), hay que reconocer dos variables
significativas que incidieron en ello: una fue la voluntad y el apoyo politico del Ministerio de Hacienda y
Credito Publico, lo que hizo que el Ministerio y su entomo se apropiaran de estas labores. La otra fue el
dialogo franco con los organismos intemacionales financiadores del proyecto, lo que permiti6 una
conducci6n agil y apropiada. A su vez, estas dos variables contribuyeron al desarrollo de la credibilidad
necesaria para la correcta conducci6n del proyecto.
D. Capacidad Local: Transferencia de conocimientos y herramientas
Capacitaci6n y entrenamiento
De manera transversal, se disenio un plan de capacitaci6n integral de todo el Proyecto ejecutado
inicialmente a traves del INAP. Despues de su cierre, en 1997, la capacitaci6n se llev6 a cabo a trav6s de
cada componente del Proyecto, usando los recursos intemacionales contratados, y con el apoyo pedag6gico,
t6cnico y logistico de la Unidad de Capacitaci6n del MIHCP.
El plan de capacitaci6n tenia por objeto preparar a los funcionarios publicos y crear competencias e
instancias de entrenamiento en metodologia e instrumentos de gesti6n aplicadas a las instituciones puiblicas
que habian suscrito un ARI. De manera particular, estuvo orientada a los niveles de direcci6n a cargo de la
conducci6n del programa de reforma en sus instituciones y a los funcionarios mas relacionados con dicho
proceso.
La introducci6n de herramientas y tecnicas de gesti6n por parte de la asistencia tecnica intemacional
contratada estuvo siempre acompaniada de una pertinente capacitaci6n que se tradujo en la construcci6n de
capacidad local y la formaci6n de interlocutores validos tanto dentro de la estructura del Proyecto mismo
como dentro de las instituciones participando en el Proyecto a traves de los distintos componentes. Esto
pernite afirmar que la estrategia de entrenar altos funcionarios puTblicos fue bien enfocada, asi como la
pertinencia y los conteridos de la capacitaci6n impartida.
Asi, en el marco de los objetivos y los alcances de cada componente, con recursos del Credito No. 2690-Ni
se capacitaron mas de 600 funcionarios en metodologias, aplicaciones y herramientas vinculadas a
Reestructuraci6n Institucional; cerca de 4,000 funcionarios en administraci6n financiera, adquisiciones y
control gubemamental; y alrededor de 1,000 funcionarios y empleados en gesti6n de recursos humanos.
Capacidades instaladas y Redes en el sector puiblico
Durante los afios de ejecuci6n del Proyecto, tanto por la capacitaci6n formal ofrecida como por el alto nivel
de participaci6n e interacci6n de los funcionarios puzblicos con el equipo del Proyecto y la asistencia tecnica
intemacional, se ha dejado capacidad instalada en el sector puiblico nicaragulense.
La creaci6n de equipos de profesionales de alto rendimiento, asi como las contrapartes institucionales
existentes, nos habla de personas altamente profesionalizadas, con un alto grado y sentido de servicio
- 36 -



puiblico. Ellos son muestra de la existencia de capacidades nacionales que han adquirido tecnicas y
herramientas de gesti6n, han hecho un buen uso y son la base para una buena gesti6n del conocimiento, y
han hecho posible la introducci6n de una 16gica de trabajo en equipo y gesti6n de redes interinstitucionales.
E. Probidady Transparencia en los drganos del Estado
Aunque los objetivos del Proyecto y los propios de cada uno de sus componentes tienen estrecha relaci6n
con la transparencia en la gesti6n puiblica, en especial en materia de servicio civil y administraci6n
financiera integrada, al momento de su disenio no se incluy6 de manera explicita un componente
especificamente dedicado a la promoci6n de la transparencia en el sector puiblico. Es hasta 1998 cuando se
formaliza en el Convenio de Credito No. 2690-Ni el apoyo a la constituci6n del Comite Nacional de
Integridad y la elaboraci6n de un Plan Nacional de Integridad.
Se crearon el Comite Nacional de Integridad (CNI) y la Oficina Ejecutiva del mismo (Marzo de 1998) que
dirigieron y organizaron el Primer Foro Nacional de Integridad (Febrero de 1999), a partir del cual la
Oficina Ejecutiva del CNI elabor6, divulg6 y promovi6 el Plan Nacional de Integridad.
Adicionalmente, esta oficina, en el marco de lo establecido en Plan Nacional de Integridad, ha colaborado
en la elaboraci6n de varias iniciativas legales tales como el Anteproyecto de Ley de Acceso a la
Informaci6n y el Anteproyecto de Ley sobre Probidad, y elabor6 el C6digo de Etica del Servidor Publico.
Con todo esto se ha establecido las bases par transitar hacia un Estado mas transparente y probo en lo que
se refiere a sus acciones y el comportamiento etico de su personal en la busqueda del imperio de la etica
puiblica en la administraci6n del Estado.
F. Administracidn del Proyecto
Aunque el pleno del Comite Ejecutivo para la Reforma de la Administracion Publica (CERAP) no lleg6 a
funcionar totalmente y se careci6 de una visi6n estrat6gica del Programa de Reforma y Modernizaci6n del
Sector Nblico prevista en su decreto creador, las grandes directrices eran consensuadas con la Secretaria
Ejecutiva para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica y formalizadas por su medio.
Sin embargo, a partir de que el Comit6 pas6 a estar presidido por el Vicepresidente de la Repiublica y
UCRESEP pas6 al ambito de la Vicepresidencia, el Programa y el Proyecto de Desarrollo Institucional
obtuvieron mayor visibilidad, apoyo politico y direcci6n estrategica, al menos en cuanto a prioridades se
refiere. Incluso se logr6 la conformaci6n de una especie de "petit CERAP" conformado por el
Vicepresidente de la Republica, el Secretario Ejecutivo para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica, el
Director de UCRESEP y, en ocasiones, el Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico como principal
beneficiario del Proyecto que dio, a partir de 1998, direcci6n estrategica al Proyecto.
Por su parte, la Secretaria Ejecutiva para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Publica, desde su creaci6n hasta
fines de 2000, ejecut6 activamente su tarea de velar por la ejecuci6n, supervisi6n y seguimiento de los
planes y programas del Proyecto, apoyandose siempre en UCRESEP como su brazo tecnico y
administrativo. El cambio de la Secretaria asumida por el Viceministro de Hacienda a la de un Secretario
nombrado por el Presidente de la Repuiblca para que' se desempeiara exclusivamente esta labor, tuvo una
incidencia positiva en el Proyecto al inyectarle mayor dinamismo por la diaria interacci6n del Secretario
con UCRESEP y los directores tecnicos de cada componente del Proyecto, lo que facilit6, ademis, la
reactivaci6n parcial del CERAP.
- 37 -



En cuanto a UCRESEP se refiere, y desde la 6ptica de un balance general, cabe sefialar el papel
desempefiado por esta Unidad que, a traves de los afios de disefio y ejecuci6n del Proyecto, ha jugado un
papel fundamental en la animaci6n de los procesos de reforma, representando al CERAP cuando fue
necesario, con exito, innovaci6n y creatividad, y yendo mas alla de las funciones propias que le estaban
asignadas en cuanto a la administraci6n de los recursos provenientes del Credito No. 2690-Ni. A tal punto
que es apropiado senialar a UCRESEP como la instituci6n con mayor legitimidad en lo referente a materias
relacionadas con Reforma del Estado, tanto en el sector puiblico nicaragiuense como ante organismos
multilaterales y agencias bilaterales de cooperaci6n para el desarrollo.
Lo antes expuesto quiere decir que en tenninos de objetivos alcanzados, las responsabilidades y finciones
de UCRESEP no s6lo respondieron a su papel tecnico y administrativo, sino que ademas suplieron -y con
6xito-- funciones estrategicas.
Resumiendo, se puede concluir que, a pesar de las dificultades que se presentaron a lo largo de la ejecuci6n
del Proyecto, se logr6 lo siguiente:
-      Posicionamiento del tema de la reforma y modernizaci6n del Estado en la agenda gubernamental y
la percepci6n de este como un factor critico de exito para impulsar el desarrollo del pais y su
competitividad.
-      Introducci6n de una estrategia y una metodologia de intervenci6n efectiva, ya sea en el ambito de
los diagn6sticos como en la gesti6n de redes de trabajo, y el disefio de un instrumento poderoso a nivel de
modernizaci6n institucional como fueron los ARI.
-      Reordenamiento eficiente del Poder Ejecutivo y aprobaci6n de la Ley 290, siendo 6sta una
referencia obligatoria al momento de revisar responsabilidades y funciones en el sector pfiblico
nicaragiiense.
-      Sensibilizaci6n creciente y adquisici6n de una cultura hacia los resultados y una orientaci6n al
usuario.
-      Introducci6n de elementos de gesti6n, incluyendo el uso de las tecnologias de informaci6n.
-      Creaci6n de capacidad institucional en el Poder Ejecutivo para transformarse y adaptarse a los
cambios en la visi6n de Estado que pueda darse en un futuro.
-      Construcci6n de capacidad de gesti6n de Proyectos relacionados con reformas del Estado de
"segunda generaci6n" y de indole de Desarrollo Institucional en general.
En general, se fueron dando los pasos y se siguieron los cronogramas aunque no siempre de la forma como
se hubiese querido. Asi lo atestiguan las ayudas memorias de las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco
Mundial y los informes fmancieros, de auditoria extema, y de actividades presentados por el Gobiemo de
Nicaragua los cuales evaluan positivamente los estados de avances del Proyecto en su conjunto.
VI. Evaluaci6n Critica del Proyecto
Lo que se expone a continuaci6n es una mirada critica respecto al disefio, desarrollo y ejecuci6n del
Proyecto. Como todo proyecto, adoleci6 de algunos desaciertos que aqui se seialan con el animo de
ampliar de una forna objetiva el aprendizaje de las distintas partes involucradas y mejorar la
conceptualizaci6n y la ejecuci6n de nuevos proyectos en la segunda generaci6n del Programa de Reforma.
A. Supuestos del Proyecto
Estabilidad y enfoque de las politicas puiblicas
- 38 -



A nivel de los supuestos que estaban presentes en el Proyecto, uno de ellos tiene relaci6n con la estabilidad
de las politicas puiblicas en las instituciones para el exito del Proyecto.
Uno de los primeros problemas a los que se vio enfrentado el Proyecto esta directamente vinculado con el
contexto politico en que se inicia. El credito fue firmado en 1995, pero en la prictica comenz6 a ser
ejecutado a finales de 1996, aiio en que se produjo la elecci6n de nuevas autoridades, las cuales asumieron
en Enero de 1997. El cambio de autoridades no s6lo signific6 carnbio de enfoque de las politicas publicas,
sino un cambio de personas y el inicio de un proceso de establecimiento y aprendizaje. En efecto, hubo los
inevitables cambios de ministros y viceministros, por una parte, y por otra, cambios en las direcciones
institucionales hasta el nivel de Directores Generales, y en algunos casos de Directores Especificos. Esto
tuvo como consecuencia una salida obligada de personal que habia sido entrenado y capacitado, lo que
unido al desconocimiento relativo de las nuevas autoridades con relaci6n al Proyecto, le restaba apoyo
tecnico y politico. En este marco, hubo que realizar una estrategia de convencimiento para asentar
nuevamente el Proyecto y lograr la adhesi6n y alineaci6n politica de parte del nuevo Gabinete, y muy en
especial de las autoridades de las instituciones que participaban en el Proyecto.
Esta problematica, compartida por muchos gobiernos respecto a la continuidad / discontinuidad de las
politicas y programas puiblicos, produce estancamiento en los procesos de cambio que se quieren imnpulsar
y en donde los principales afectados son los ciudadanos en cuanto usuarios del sector puiblico.
El supuesto de la relativa estabilidad no se dio, traduciendose en demoras en la ejecuci6n real de las
actividades.
Experiencia y capacidad de las frmas internacionales
Un segundo supuesto era que los que tenian experiencia, capacidad y visi6n en este tipo de Proyectos eran
las empresas y firmas consultoras intemacionales. De alguna manera la historia del Proyecto demuestra
que las capacidades nacionales en varios de los componentes resultaron m$s eficaces y mAs econ6micas y
con mayores aportes en materias de transferencia t6cnica que las empresas y firmas consultoras
intemacionales.
Posiblemente, la experiencia -especialmente en las areas muy tecnicas-ha llevado al convencimiento de
que es preferible contar con firmas intemacionales en los proyectos. Sin embargo, en materia de reforma y
modernizaci6n del Estado, la experiencia esta en los organismos intemacionales y en los funcionarios de
gobiemo que han venido trabajando sobre este tema. La experticia de firmas intemacionales -por el
momento-parece que debe ser utilizada en asuntos puntuales y dejar la direcci6n de los procesos de
reforma en manos de fumcionarios o expertos que conozcan y dominen los asuntos de la cosa publica.
Capacidad de ejecuci6n del Gobierno Nacional y Supervisi6n-del BM
En cuanto la capacidad de ejecuci6n del Gobiemo de Nicaragua fue y es mayor que la prevista, y dado que
se cuenta con la experiencia acumulada de primer orden en los funcionarios del Banco Mundial, lo que
habria que buscar es una forma de ejecuci6n y supervisi6n distintas, tal vez orientadas a que el gobiemo
asuma un papel mas protag6nico, que le de mayor direcci6n politica al Programa de Reforma y
Modemnizaci6n. En proyectos complejos, la fuerza tiene que radicar en los que conocen la realidad. En este
sentido, hay que optimizar el uso de las dos experticias basicas: la del gobiemo y la del Banco Mundial.
B. Disefioy monitoreo
- 39 -



Disefio
En lo que respecta al disefio, se considera que el Proyecto fue muy coherente desde el punto de vista
te6rico, pero -posiblemente por la presi6n de los serios desajustes macroecon6micos y las variaciones
politicas-no tom6 suficientemente en cuenta las acciones previas o condicionantes de un Proyecto que
enfrentaba el reto de transformar un aparato puiblico. Tal vez el hecho de que hubiese problemas
macroecon6micos de mayor envergadura, hizo que la reforma pasara a ser vista como un proyecto de
menor categoria e imprmii6 la percepci6n -tal como otros proyectos en la regi6n-que el Proyecto se viera
como una forma de continuar reduciendo el tamafio del sector puiblico mas que como una estrategia de
hacer un Estado altamente eficiente, orientado al ciudadano y facilitador de la actividad del sector privado.
Por lo tanto, debe haberse dado una discusi6n expedita del diseiio, el que se llev6 a la practica a traves de
componentes con mucha fuerza propia pero de baja interrelaci6n. En vez de la l6gica ahrededor de la
Reestructuraci6n Institucional (componente que implicaba mejores diagn6sticos y una mucho mayor
asignaci6n financiera), cada componente busc6 la forma de establecerse de manera independiente,
dominando asf la percepci6n que el proyecto estaba relacionado con el ajuste estructural acordado durante
el gobiemo precedente, la disminuci6n del gasto piuiblico, la reducci6n de ministerios y de personal per se,
mas que con la entrega eficiente y con calidad de los servicios a la ciudadania.
Asimismo, aunque se persigui6 mejorar la calidad en la entrega de los servicios, ninguno de los
diagn6sticos consider6 la definici6n e identificaci6n de estos servicios. A pesar que uno de los "focos" eran
los servicios -al constatar que las instituciones tenian una pesima infraestructura y formas de conducci6n
poco participativas, que incidian en la actitud de un personal no acostumbrado a emprender camnbios
organizacionales planificados y bien fundamentados-se tuvo que darle mas peso al anAlisis individual de
cada instituci6n que habia suscrito ARI, la revisi6n de misiones y visiones, de sus macroprocesos,
identificaci6n de procesos y propuestas de rediseiio.
Objetivos y programaci6n de actividades
Tomando en cuenta que la realidad es dinanica y cambiante, y que el detalle de los problemas es
desconocido hasta que se da una intervenci6n met6dica, hay que ver a las sucesivas reprogramaciones y
enmiendas que se hicieron al Proyecto no como "fallas", sino como un necesario aprendizaje para disefiar y
ejecutar de mejor manera los proyectos de reforma y modernizaci6n del Estado, especialmente cuando son
desconocidos por el pais, en este caso Nicaragua. El hecho que se hayan programado 20 ARI y que, por la
variable costos, se hayan tenido que'reducir a 7, demuestra que hay que afiar el proceso de diseiio y
calculo de los costos de los proyectos de reforma y modernizaci6n del Estado, y ejecutarlos modularmente
de acuerdo a las condiciones y particularidades de cada administraci6n puiblica.
Por otra parte, los tiempos programados -en los primeros afios del proyectos-no tomaron en
consideraci6n el recargo que se da en el tiempo total del proyecto debido a procesos complejos o en
extremo pormenorizados de contrataciones y adquisiciones. Igualmente, no se consider6 que, a diferencia
de los paises desarrollados, el periodo eleccionario y de asunci6n de nuevas autoridades incide' en la
velocidad delaparato de gobierno y en su proceso de toma de decisiones, hecho que afect6 al proyecto
durante los afios de 1996.y 1997.
Monitoreo
En las condiciones descritas, resultaba muy dificil establecer una forma habitual de monitoreo o defmirlo
de manera muy explicita. De ahi la dificultad para monitorear el Proyecto, modificarlo objetiva y
-40 -



oportunamente, y evaluarlo. En este caso, no se pudo establecer indicadores constantes y se tuvo que
recurrir a seguimiento de metas que se iban ajustando en el tiempo. A su vez, las propias firmas
consultoras no tuvieron la capacidad de monitorear un proceso mas complejo y distinto del que ellas
esperaban. Parad6jicamente, hubo algunas auto-evaluaciones realizadas por las propias empresas en las
que se atribuian resultados altamente positivos.
Estas caracteristicas, en cuanto al monitoreo del Proyecto se refiere, si bien contribuyeron a ajustes y
reprogramaciones positivas, puede dejar la sensaci6n que varios de los esfuerzos -principalmente el de
reestructuraci6n institucional-no tuvieron resultados concretos. Sin embargo, se avanz6 en la preparaci6n
de muchas condiciones y se prepar6 a parte del gobierno para reformas mas concretas y mas orientadas a la
ciudadania.
C OrganizaciJn
Liderazgo y conducci6n
Con relaci6n a los inconvenientes de los cambios imprevistos o inesperados relacionados con la
organizaci6n en el Proyecto, se considera que un factor no menor que contribuy6 negativamente al
desarrollo del Proyecto fue el escaso liderazgo y conducci6n durante los primeros anios; lo cual.tiene
relaci6n con la escasa conducci6n politico-estrategica del CERAP, el cual durante 1995 hasta inicios de
1997 pricticamente no se reuni6 ni cont6 con el liderazgo de quien lo presidia. Por lo tanto el Proyecto
careci6 de conducci6n y visi6n. Esto indica ademis, el limitado interes mostrado por las autoridades de la
epoca por el Proyecto en si mismo, las cuales nunca sopesaron la envergadura y el alcance del Proyecto, lo
que llev6 a una ausencia casi total de toma de decisiones de gobiemo respecto a materias relativas al
Proyecto de Reforma y Modernizacion del sector puiblico. No fue sino hasta 1998, cuando el Presidente de
la Repuiblica deleg6 en el Vicepresidente de la Republica la direcci6n del Programa de Reforma y
Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico (1o que se formaliza en el Decreto No. 10-98), que el Proyecto cont6 con
el respaldo politico del Gobiemo.
Sin embargo, mirando en retrospectiva se puede decir que el Proyecto no tuvo todo el apoyo politico que un
Proyecto de este alcance necesita. Ejemplo de ello es la aun no aprobada Ley de Servicio Civil y Carrera
Administrativa. Como dato ilustrativo, este componente interrumpi6 su avance entre septiembre de 1988
hasta mediados del 2000.
En este mismo anmbito, los sucesivos problemas presentados durante el desarrollo e impiantaci6n del
SIGFA,, los periodos de completa paralisis que sufri6 este Proyecto, sus variaciones, estancamientos y
retrocesos, muestran que no hubo una conducci6n ni un sistema de toma de decisiones pertinentes para
resolver este tipo de problemas. Esto puede explicarse debido a que, durante la mayor parte del periodo de
ejecuci6n el Director Nacional tuvo un escaso liderazgo y hubo dos direcciones (una nacional y otra
intemacional) con relaciones, visiones y enfoques distintos y diferentes estilos de liderazgo.
Responsabilidades y funciones
Se considera que el Proyecto debi6 haber sido mayormente consensuado con equipos nacionales. El hecho
de haber entregado a una Finna consultora su disenlo y organizaci6n e incluso, en casos como
Reestructuraci6n Institucional, su coordinaci6n, no fue un correcto enfoque, puesto que se tranisfonna en
juez y parte. La coordinaci6n debiera haber sido distinta a la de los contratistas. De esta forna se habrian
dado los dos componentes fundamentales: autoridad y legitimidad en la coordinaci6n de los diferentes
componentes. La 16gica de la fragmentaci6n impidi6 la coordinaci6n. Mis aun, UCRESEP como unidad
-41 -



coordinadora, manejaba los fondos del credito y los procesos de adquisiciones y a la vez actuaba como
unidad ejecutora, entrando asi en una dualidad de roles que limitaba la capacidad de su staff.
Por otro lado, esta misma fragmentaci6n facilit6 que no hubiera una priorizaci6n institucional adecuada.
En efecto, cada componente fue acomodandose de acuerdo a sus prioridades. Esto se observa mas
claramente en el caso de reestructuraci6n institucional, en que cada instituci6n fue modificando sus planes
de trabajo de acuerdo a las prioridades de la autoridad ministerial del momento, lo que refuerza lo
mencionado sobre la ausencia de coordinaci6n central que mirase y condujese de manera integral el
Proyecto.
En resumen, y de manera muy sintetizada, se pueden sefialar algunos elementos centrales de este balance
critico. Ellos son:
-      El Proyecto tuvo una conducci6n politico-estrat6gica puntual, intermitente y por lo tanto con una
ausencia prolongada de liderazgo. Esto llev6 a que desde el gobiemo no se produjera un respaldo real, o
explicito, ni alineaci6n politica del conjunto de las autoridades respecto al Proyecto de Modernizaci6n de la
Administraci6n Nblica. Caso contrario, no se hubiese producido, por ejemplo, los estancamientos en los
componentes de Servicio Civil y las confusiones y vacilaciones en el componente de Administraci6n
Financiera Integrada, que posteriormente fue subsumida por el SIGFA.
-      El modelo de fragmentaci6n predominante en la concepci6n del Proyecto, impidi6 desarrollar un
factor critico de exito que es la coordinaci6n integrada del Proyecto a fm de facilitar la toma de decisiones
y conducci6n del mismo.
-      La estabilidad de las politicas puTblicas fue rota por el periodo electoral y la transici6n a un nuevo
gobiemo. Asi, en el anbito de la programaci6n de acciones, no se consider6 o no se tuvo mayormente en
cuenta en un horizonte pr6ximo el contexto politico, la rotaci6n de ministros y autoridades y de
contrapartes institucionales que afect6 considerablemente el desarrollo del programa de Reforma y
Modernizaci6n de la Administraci6n Publica.
-      No se valor6 adecuadamente la participaci6n, aportes y el rol que debian haber tenido las
capacidades nacionales versus las intemacionales. Probablemente, los costos hubiesen sido menores y la
apropiaci6n del proyecto hubiese sido mayor.
-      Las distintas reprogramaciones y/o enmiendas, hechas basicamente por la interacci6n con la
realidad de los ministerios, deben verse en terminos positivos ya que muestran la capacidad estrategica de
modificar sobre la marcha y seguir el espiritu del proyecto, en vez de aferrarse a su letra.
VII.   Lecciones y principales desafios
Para el exitoso disefio, desarrollo y ejecuci6n de esfuerzos de reforma y modernizaci6n del sector puiblico,
del nivel y de la complejidad de los iniciados en la administraci6n puiblica nicaragiiense, se requieren los
elementos que se listan en este apartado, los cuales en si representan un gran desaflo para cualquier
Gobiemo:
-      Contar con un plan integral de reforma y modernizaci6n del sector puiblico, con estrategias claras
de intervenci6n y mecanismos efectivos.
-      Liderazgo institucional y politico, pues estos esfuerzos, aunque tecnicos, se desarrollan en el
ambito politico estrategico y, en esa medida, debieran formar parte, a la vez que contribuyen, de cualquier
plan de gobierno que busque el desarrollo sostenible con equidad.
-      Legitimidad, adhesi6n y alineamiento politico de las autoridades de gobiemo.
-      Coordinaci6n central efectiva del plan de reforma y modernizaci6n del sector puiblico, y monitoreo
y evaluaci6n permanentes de la ejecuci6n descentralizada de sus distintos Proyectos.
-42 -



-      Revisi6n permanente del plan respecto al contexto y variables politicas del Estado nicaraguense.
-      Participaci6n activa e interactiva de y entre los actores de estos esfuerzos.
-      Capacitaci6n pertinente acompanando siempre toda acci6n de reforma y modemizaci6n.
-      Voz y voto a la capacidad nacional como interlocutores validos y memoria institucional que son.
De cara al futuro, el Gobierno de Nicaragua, a partir de multiples ejercicios de evaluaci6n del Proyecto de
Desarrollo Institucional y del Programa de Reforma y Modernizaci6n del Sector nPblico, ha realizado los
ajustes necesarios para orientar y focalizar mejor los esfuerzos y los recursos destinados a la consecuci6n
de los objetivos de este ultimo.
Resultado de esto ha sido el Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica a la Gesti6n Econ6mica, tamnbien financiado
parcialmente por el Credito No. 3314-Ni extendido por la AIF al Gobierno de Nicaragua, que permitira
profundizar y extender la reorganizaci6n del Poder Ejecutivo, la reforma del servicio civil y el SIGFA, asi
como tambien mejorar la capacidad institucional y operativa de instituciones directamente vinculadas con
la gesti6n econ6mica, incluyendo la simplificaci6n de tramites y el mejoramiento de servicios al puiblico,
entre otras iniciativas.
-43 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         23379
Type:     {CR
__



