Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6534-NI
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 24, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = 7.2 Nicaragua C6rdobas (January 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERAP              Committee for the Reform of Public Administration
(C'omite para la Reforma de la Andministracion Publica)
DIGEFUP            Directorate General for Public Administration (TDirecci6n General
de [Fincion Piiblica)
ERC                Economic Recovery Credit
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Association
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IDF                Institutional Development Fund
INAP               Government Training Institute (Instiluto Nicaraguense de
Administracion Puiblica)
LIB                Limited International Bidding
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
PHRD               Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SDS                Service Delivery Survey
SIGFA              Integrated Financial Management System (,Sisema IJtegrado de
Gesti6n y A uditoria Financiera)
TA                 Technical Assistance
UCRESEP            Coordinating Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector
((nidad Coordinadora para la Reforma de Sector PIublico)
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
USAID              United States Agency for International Development



NICARAGUA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.    When the current Government of Nicaragua assumed office in April, 1990 it faced severe
challenges. The economy, devastated by mismanagement and civil war, was characterized by a
cumbersome, centralized public sector, a small over-regulated private sector, and atrophied
market institutions. Exports and GDP per capita had declined to 40 percent of the levels attained
in the mid 1970s, and macroeconomic imbalances, inherited from the previous administration, had
resulted in hyper-inflation and a massive external debt more than five times the size of the GDP.
During 1991 and 1992 the Government implemented a strong stabilization program supported by
the IMF. It also began a structural adjustment program, supported by IDA, aimed at transforming
Nicaragua into a market economy capable of achieving sustained growth. An element in the
structural adjustment effort were programs to fundamentally alter the size and role of Government
through employment downsizing, privatization of parastatal enterprises, and the reduction of
Government policy intervention in economic decision making.
2.    Despite considerable progress in stabilization and adjustment, by early 1994 private sector
investment and economic activity had not rebounded as anticipated. A major contributing factor
was the continuing drag on the economy of the public sector. Even after privatizing over 300
firms, labor force reductions, and major efforts at budget restraint, the non-financial public sector
remained large, accounting for 40 percent of GDP. Despite a high tax burden, the 1994 fiscal
current deficit in the non-financ:al public sector, before donations, is about 8 percent of GDP.
Moreover, service delivery remains weak as public sector financial management processes are
rudimentary, human resource management is nearly non-existent, and the mission, structure and
function of individual ministries remains, in many instances, outdated and inadequate.
3.    The authorities, fully cognizant of these deficiencies and the failure of the economy to
respond as anticipated to the earlier adjustment measures, embarked on an intensified program of
adjustment with increased attention directed to public sector reform and modernization. IDA
supported this initiative with a second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II), approved in June,
1994, which aims at, among others: (i) a 15 percent reduction in public employment; (ii)
continued privatization of public enterprises; (iii) reform of state banking institutions; and (iv) the
design and launching of a comprehensive public sector modernization program. Preparation of a
Technical Assistance (TA) project to support reform design began in early 1994. Using both
PHRD and IDF grants, the Government was able to prepare diagnostic studies and action
programs focused on institutional restructuring, civil service and financial management reform,
and the development of an information technology improvement program for the public sector.
Given the progress achieved in reform design and their strong desire to accelerate reform
implementation, the authorities requested that the proposed TA credit be expanded into a more
comprehensive, implementation oriented Institutional Development Project.



2
4.     Project Objectives: President Violeta Chamorro issued Decree 44-94 in October, 1994
initiating a public sector modernization program and creating a cabinet level oversight C'ommittee
for the Reform of the Public Administration (CERAP), headed by the Minister of the Presidency.
The goal of the reform is a public sector which is "small, strong, efficient.. and [which] acts as a
facilitator to the private sector." Successful implementation of a comprehensive, coherent, and
well-targeted public sector modernization program would represent an important advance in
Nicaragua's ongoing structural adjustment effort. The proposed project would be a major source
of support for the reform effort. Its objectives would be improvement in service delivery by those
institutions restructured under the program and increases in public savings attributable to the
program.
5.    Project Concept: Institutional restructuring is the heart of the reform program and the
proposed project. It would involve the systematic re-engineering of up to 20 ministries and
decentralized institutions over a five year period. Project execution would be phased with no
more than five institutions joining the program in any given year in order to limit demands on the
Government's overall reform management capacity. An important degree of "self-selection"
would be utilized in determining the order of entrance into the program to ensure commitment
and "buy-in" by the participating institutions.
6.    IDC financed consultant services would assist CERAP undertake diagnostic studies of the
mission, structure, and function of institutions nominated to enter the program as well as design
and support implementation of the institutional restructuring process. Institutional Restructuring
Agreements (IRAs) would be negotiated between CERAP and each participating institution
Each IRA would establish objectives and performance benchmarks focused on identifying the
appropriate mission and enhancing the main service delivery capacities of the participating
institution, as well as delineating the resources (technical assistance, training, information
technology, etc. financed by IDA or other donors) to be made available by CERAP to support the
restructuring process. Each IRA is expected to remain in force for at least two years. Annual
performance reviews, including Service Delivery Surveys (SDS), being designed with the support
of the Economic Development Institute (EDI), would measure the institution's progress against
agreed objectives and establish the basis for any modifications in the IRAs for the following year.
While the Government is confident that all ministers and heads of institutions would actively
support the restructuring process, Government sponsored incentives, in addition to those
provided through IDA and other participating donor resources, would include increased
responsibility in budget formulation and execution, improved human resource management and
training, and scope for selective pay adjustments for essential professional and technical personnel
financed out of reform related savings.
7.    The project would also finance three critically important cross-cutting components (civil
service reform, financial management reform, and investments in information technology)
necessary to sustain improved service delivery in the restructured institutions. These systems
must be designed as overarching, enabling systems for the public sector as a whole. The
installation of these components, however, would be targeted first on those institutions with IRAs
in force. Although not a separate component per se, training would be an integral aspect of the
reform effort, to be delivered initially by the substantive consultants in each project component.
The project would also implicitly complement the Government's decentralization efforts by



3
providing training to local officials and supporting, through the restructuring process, the
expansion of decentralization initiatives currently being piloted in several institutions.
Project Components
Institutional Restructuring ($7.05 million, including training, 22% of total base costs):
8.    The Problem: Diagnostic studies' of seven ministries, two decentralized institutions, and
five local governments commissioned by IDA during project preparation, as well as a separate
assessment of pay and employment practices, have documented a generic set of institutional
weaknesses in the public sector. Among the salient findings are the following:
* Most ministries, especially those whose controlling legislation sets multiple objectives, are not
fulfilling their stated missions nor ensuring that their activities fully reflect current Government
priorities;
* Confusion and fragmentation of responsibilities is common due to overlapping legal mandates
among institutions;
*  Various services could be provided more productively by the private sector,
* Within institutions there is organizational confusion and fragmentation. Some ministries have
more than one organization chart, of which none reflects reality;
* Departments within ministries frequently operate with excessive autonomy, pursuing
independent agendas,
* Weak mechanisms for target setting and performance measurement, the poor state of
information systems, and the lack of feedback into the budgetary process in all institutions
studied attenuate performance and accountability,
* The high proportion of donor funding to total resources available to some ministries increases
the influence of donors' interests and objectives, which may diverge with those of the
government, heightening confusion and fragmentation of purpose;
* Ministries appear to be overstaffed at the top and bottom, and
* Across ministries there are large numbers of small "management units" whose existence
appears to respond to pressures other than rational work organization. Out of 20 institutions
studied, 12 had an average of less than four employees per manager. One ministry has 17
administrative units in its Central Activities Program, of which two have an average of 25.5
employees, while the other fifteen average only 3.01 employees per unit. Another ministry has
three units averaging 20.3 persons and 19 averaging 2.07 persons. Whether or not this
Nicaragua: Institutional Diagnosis and Restructuring Study, November, 1994



4
pattern also reflects the impact of separate donor projects and ad hoc attempts to overcome
low pay levels, there appears to be too many supervisors for too few employees.
9.    As indicated above, the Government has pursued public sector reform and downsizing
since assuming office in 1990. It has reduced public sector intervention in the market,
demobilized much of the military, privatized over 300 parastatal companies, and initiated sector
programs with important institutional development components utilizing assistance of IDA, IDB,
and USAID in the agriculture, health, and education sectors. The Government also implemented
a voluntary labor force reduction program between 1991 and 1993, financed by USAID, which
resulted in the separation of approximately 25,000 employees. The combined impact of these and
other initiatives is demonstrated in Table l.
Table 1: Public Sector Employment 1977-93
(thousands)
Government Unit          1977           1990           1993
Central government                   24.1           67.2         57.3
Security and defense                  9.2          109.2         24.9
Rest of non-financial sectors         7.7           20.9         16.2
Flinancial sector                     2.2            9.1          3.5
CORNAP (holding company for           0.0           78.0          4.3
state owned companies)
Total                                43.2          284.8         106.2
GDP per public employee         679,225.0       63,734.0    169,654.0
(1980 cordobas)
Source: Ministry of Finance
10.   In spite of the substantial progress made in reducing the size of the public sector, the 1994
ratio of GDP per employee is still only about a fourth of its 1977 level. Similarly, the ratio of
total population to the public sector as a whole, less defense and security, dropped from 98.1
persons per public servant in 1977 to 63.5 in 1990, recovering to 76.9 by April 1994. While these
figures must be used with caution and recognition accorded to an increased commitment to social
sector investments, the analysis suggests further global reductions are warranted within the
context of carefully prepared institutional restructuring programs.
11.   The Government's Program: In a Public Sector Management Development Policy letter
to IDA in March, 1994 the Government indicated its intention to consolidate past reforms and
launch a more comprehensive public sector modernization program. A Government white paper
in July, 1994 identified institutional restructuring as the keystone of the reform program. The
Government subsequently advanced the concept of explicit contractual agreements (i.e., IRAs)
between CERAP and participating institutions to govern and discipline the institutional
restructuring process. During project appraisal the Government and IDA agreed on a model, or
generic, IRA (see Annex 1). CERAP, with IDA assistance, is presently developing the initial four
IRAs which would serve to launch the institutional restructuring program no latter than mid 1995.
The authorities and IDA have agreed that at least one IRA would be formally contracted prior to



5
credit effectiveness. Assurances were provided by the authorities that IRAs would be negotiated
between CERAP and participating institutions as a condition for entrance into the program.
12.   Institutional restructurings would be based on diagnostic reviews of the mission, structure,
and function of the institution, with a view toward eliminating duplication and fragmentation,
contracting out or privatizing functions wherever appropriate, strengthening program formulation,
human resources capacity, and financial management and, in general, strengthening the
institution's ability to execute a well defined, service oriented mission. The Government has
nominated the ministries of Finance, Government, Environment and Natural Resources,
Transportation and Construction, and the Social Security Institute to initiate the restructuring
process during 1995. Diagnostic studies have been, or will soon be, completed in all these
institutions. An additional five institutions would join the program during 1996. Diagnostic
studies to prepare for these and subsequent restructurings would be carried out with IDA financed
assistance. Subject to the progress achieved in the initial ten institutions, the availability of funds
and the Government's ability to manage program expansion in a systematic and efficient manner,
up to 20 institutions could be restructured during the five year life-of-project (see Table 2). The
Government and IDA have agreed to undertake a mid-term review of the program after the
project's second year. A central concern of this review would be to determine if the third and
fourth rounds, each respectively involving up to five institutions, should go forward as indicatively
planned or, alternatively whether the available resources should be used to further deepen and
extend the institutional restructuring process underway in the initial 10 IRA institutions for an
additional one or two years. Both the authorities and IDA agreed during appraisal that a
decision to continue to expand institutional coverage during the project's outer years, versus a
more intensively focused, institutional deepening of the ongoing program, could not be decided a
priori, but should await the results of the mid-term review.
Table 2: Institutional Restructuring Schedule
Year             1          2             3             4          Total
1995        1996         1997           1998
Number of
Institutions          5           5            5              5          20
Beginning
Restructuring
13.   Proposed IDA Assistance ($5.7 million in Technical Assistance and $.26 million for
Training): IDA would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm
with relevant international experience. The firm would: (i) assist the CERAP Commission for
Administrative Reform establish and operate the IRA process, (ii) provide direct technical
assistance (both management and sector specific) to the selected institutions implementing IRAs,
(iii) design and carry out diagnostic studies for prospective restructuring institutions; (iv) assist
and support CERAP in its effort to establish and implement the SDS; (v) assist CERAP carry out
the annual IRA performance reviews, (vi) provide selected professional expertise to support
relevant training programs, (vii) assist CERAP establish the overall management framework and
implement the Public Sector Modernization Program, and (viii) oversee the coordination of the
contractors responsible for providing technical assistance to the other components of the
program. The proposed consulting services are expected to be about 144-person months of long
term residential assistance and 124 person-months of short term advisory support. Additionally



6
this component would cover management training activities to be designed and initially
implemented by the technical assistance contractor and subsequently replicated and extended by
[NAP to participating institutions.
14.   Expected Outputs: The expected outputs of the Institutional Restructuring component
would be: (i) enhanced service delivery by participating institutions as recorded and measured
through annual service delivery surveys and institutional performance reviews to be carried out
by CERAP; and (ii) more rational and cost effective recurrent and capital expenditures at the
individual institutional level, expressed in terms of each participating institution's contribution to
public savings.
Civil Service Reform ($3.34 million, including training, 10% of total base costs):
15.   The Problem: Improvements in institutional performance will require complementary
reforms in several areas including the civil service system. A comprehensive diagnosis2
undertaken during project preparation identified a range of legal, institutional, and policy
weaknesses in managing human resources, including the following:
*  Public sector employment in Nicaragua has never been governed by a civil service code. The
Government vetoed civil service legislation passed by the outgoing administration, believing
that it would not establish an appropriate framework for a professional and merit based civil
service;
* There is no national establishment register with a file on each employee, no job classification
system, no government-wide occupational based salary schedule, and no uniform set of
policies and procedures guided by a central personnel agency,
* The policy framework for the functioning of the civil service is based on custom and tradition,
augmented by separate laws and individual collective bargaining agreements negotiated at the
ministry level,
* Ministries often have separate and distinct codes which govern human resource management.
Consequently pay, grievance procedures, medical benefits, occupational injury regulations,
leave, death and severance benefits, and fringe benefits relating to food and clothing vary
widely among institutions. Staff in some ministries work a five-hour day for eight-hours pay.
Some agreements give employees the right to strike. Although many agreements have not
been renegotiated upon expiration, they continue in force;
* Personnel administration is rudimentary within each institution. Recruitment, hiring, firing,
and promotion are generally handled outside of the personnel division, without uniform
institutional standards and procedures. Performance evaluation, except during a probationary
period at the onset of employment, does not exist;
2 Nicaragua Civil Service Diagnostic Revicw: October. 1994.



7
*  Training opportunities for staff at all levels is extremely limited. Much of the training that
exists is initiated and financed by international donors as ad hoc interventions rather than part
of a coherent public sector human resource management and career enhancement program;
*  Management style tends to be authoritarian rather than consultative, motivating, and directed
toward problem solving;
*  Although there is limited data, civil service pay appears to be substantially below that of the
private sector across all occupational classifications, especially for technicians and senior
managers. Average earnings in government were 791 Cordobas/month ($115 equivalent) in
1993 versus 1,600 Cordobas/month ($229 equivalent) in the private sector (see Table 3);
Table 3: Average Monthly Earnings By Economic Sector and Occupation
February 1994
(Cordobas)
Sector           Laborers   Services   Administrative  Professional  Managers   Average
Technical
Mines                 988       848           1,163        1,671      2,291     1,077
Industry/Man.       1,706      2,061          1,872        3,884      6,255     2,189
Gas, Water          1,041       906           1,204        2,110      3,425     1,498
&Elect.
Construction        1,142       770           1,072        1,687      4,371     1,128
Rest. & Hotel       1,046       873           1,560       2,191       5,209     1,719
Transportation,     1,394      1,494         15,117        2,465      3,669     1,562
Storage, and
Communication
Insurance               0      1,006          1,367        2,151      5,000     2,170
Personal              951       794           1,152       2,016       3,191     1,536
Services
General                                                                           791
Government
Ministry of                                                                       817
Health
Teachers                                                                          577
Ministry of the                                                                 1,514
Presidency
Source: Ministry of Labor
* There appears to be a wide range of salaries for similar occupational classifications within the
public sector, reflecting the absence of any formal wage structure for the government and
misclassification of individuals as a result of weak personnel administration (see Table 4);



8
Table 4: Minimum, Maximum, and Average Monthly Salary of
Selected Positions in the Ministry of Agriculture
(Cordobas)
Occupation                Minimum      Maximum       Average
Department Head           735          6,000         2,133
Office Head               772           1,822        1,202
Executive Secretary        425         3,680          751
Office Secretary           422           722          562
Project Analyst            847         5,000         1,651
Veterinary "A"            1,272        4,500         1,882
Analvst-Ag. Prod. "A"     847           1,522        1,256
Sanitary Specialist "A"    670          1,272        1,019
Statistical Analyst "A"    772          1,560        1,198
Economic Analvst "A"      1,222        3,500         2,065
Agricultural Inspector     452          2,736        1,086
Lab Quality Technician     472         2,574         1,030
C.P.F. Agent (A)           234          1,250         510
Janitor                    234           500          315
Chauffeur-Light Vehicle    272          1,000         503
-  Ad hoc arrangements to overcome low pay through donor financing of Nicaraguan
consultants associated with donor financed projects may be unsustainable if international
assistance diminishes and the consultants abandon the public sector. One ministry has 425
regular positions and 555 Nicaraguan consultants associated with 27 donor financed projects.
These consultants are paid on average twice the prevailing rate for the corresponding
occupational categories on the government payroll, and
-  The ongoing program to reduce public employment under the Government's "Labor Mobility
Program" should be strengthened by tightening controls over new hiring, ensuring that
departing employees are not the most productive, linking reductions to institutional priorities
and restructuring goals, and permitting institutions to share in the budgetary savings achieved,
perhaps to provide program support and performance incentive payments to the remaining
work force. The latter would be facilitated were donors to contribute to a severance payment
fund, to relieve the pressure on the Government's recurrent budget which is currently
financing severance payments.
16.   The Government's Program: Given the serious macroeconomic imbalances and
precarious fiscal position inherited by the Government in 1990, its immediate objective was to
reduce the fiscal impact of an excessively large public sector labor force. This was achieved,
although some of the Government's more able civil servants left (perhaps inevitably given
improving prospects in the private sector). While still pursuing more selective downsizing under a
second phase Labor Mobility Program (to be supported by diagnostic reviews under the project),
the Government wants to create a properly structured, better compensated, and more professional
core of human resources in the public sector. To this end, the Government recently created,
within the Ministry of Finance, a Directorate General for Public Functions (DIGEFUP), which



9
will serve as a nascent Civil Service Administration and which has initiated a job evaluation and
position classification effort. The Government recently created personnel divisions in line
ministries and decentralized agencies which presently perform only a minimal set of personnel
management functions, principally preparation of payroll submissions and recording changes in
employee status. It is the Government's intention to enhance salaries for scarce technical and
professional skills in certain occupational categories, perhaps through the creation of a new civil
service cadre. Given immediate fiscal constraints, and as DIGEFUP seeks to define such a
system, the Government would permit participating spending agency ministers to utilize a portion
of budgetary savings generated through the restructuring process for selective pay adjustments.
Finally, with support from UNDP and USAID, the Government has taken initial steps to develop
targeted short-term management training programs, and has moved to strengthen the public
sector's training capacity in INAP.
17.   Proposed IDA Assistance ($3.0 million in Technical Assistance and $34 million for
Training): IDA would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm
specialized in human resources management and with relevant international experience to assist
the Civil Service Commission and the DIGEFUP design and carry out the civil service
modernization program. The level of effort of this proposed consultant services contract is
expected to be in the range of 96 person months of long-term residential assistance and 26
person-months of short term advisory support. Three types of assistance are envisaged:
* The contractor would assist the Civil Service Commission and DIGEFUP: (i) draft, and
implement upon enactment, a merit based civil service code3; (ii) develop a standard set of
regulations to implement the civil service code, covering all aspects of personnel
administration from grievance procedures to performance evaluation; (iii) further develop and
maintain a government-wide job classification system and supporting computerized
establishment register; (iv) develop a service-wide, incentive based salary structure and the
capacity to periodically update the salary schedule through labor market wage surveys; (v)
design and carry-out targeted staff reductions arising from the institutional diagnosis and
restructuring process; (vi) develop and apply appropriate recruitment and staff selection
processes, and (vii) strengthen the capacity of DIGEFUP to meet its responsibilities as the
rector of the civil service system.
*  At the individual institutional level, the contractor with DIGEFUP would provide technical
assistance, as elaborated in each IRA, to assist the institution's personnel divisions upgrade
personnel management practices and implement the new civil service code.
* The contractor would assist DIGEFUP design and carry out a core program of training in
human resources management (estimated cost $0.34 million). The contractor would also
coordinate the training activities associated with the Institutional Restructuring, Integrated
Financial Management and Information Technology components (see paras. 13, 21 and 26).
3  It is the Government's intention to send the proposed civil service legislation to the National Assembly for
debate and approval. The Executive Branch, however, has independent authority to establish, through
presidential decree, the necessary legal framework for the creation of the proposed civil service in the event
that the legislation is not passed by the Assembly.



10
This training would be initially developed and delivered by the consultants retained under
those components and subsequently replicated and expanded by INAP. The overall IDA
contribution to training, across all five project components, would total $2.0 million (see
Schedule 2). The UNDP would provide assistance to INAP, in the context of its ongoing
capacity building program, in training management, finance, and logistics.
18.   Expected Outputs: This component would help establish the legal foundation and
supporting management framework at both the central and specific agency level for a modern civil
service. Personnel administration and merit principles would be introduced across the
Government. A single job classification system, computerized establishment register and
supporting salary schedule would be fully functional, enabling the government to effectively
control and manage public employment and maintain an occupation based salary schedule.
Administrators and staff would receive training in applying the newly acquired personnel
management procedures. Moreover, a large cross section of civil servants would have received
training in general management, financial management and information technology, and the
institutional capability of INAP to sustain this training effort would have been strengthened.
Integrated Financial Management ($11.16 million, including training, 34% of total costs):
19.   The Problem: The financial management system of the public sector is poor and
constrains the Government's ability to execute its policies and programs in a cost effective,
efficient, and transparent manner. Diagnostic studies prepared by USAID and IDA4 have
revealed:
• The absence of a government-wide accounting system to comprehensively standardize,
classify, and account for public revenues and expenditures;
* Weak expenditure controls and cash flow management practices and supporting Treasury
functions"
* An institutionally fragmented and only partially developed system to manage and control
public credit;
* A cumbersome procurement system;
* No linkage between the rudimentary personnel establishment register and the budget and
expenditure control process; and
* A weak and limited ex post audit capacity.
20.   A diagnostic study of the budget sub-system prepared for the project5 revealed that the
budget process, notwithstanding significant progress made by the present administration, is
Nicaragua Financial Mana-gement and Control Project, December, 1994
Nicaragua: FRMP Budget System Implementation Plan, July, 1994



11
rudimentary and subordinate to short-term cash management priorities. The formal budget
process is limited to marginal adjustments from the previous year's base rather than analysis of
past expenditures, performance assessments, or forward planning. As the Government's fiscal
position is extremely tight and subject to fluctuation, which is especially unpredictable in the
absence of a cash flow plan, the Ministry of Finance exercises monthly cash control. This has
proved successful in terms of maintaining macro-fiscal targets, but at the cost of micro-service
efficiency and effectiveness at the spending agency level. As a consequence, spending agency
budgeting is a short term, monthly activity which bears little relation to the formal budgets
advanced during the formulation stage. The system of internal audit in each ministry is also
inadequate. Units, which under law report to agency heads, in practice report to the Comptroller
General, frequently perform ex ante control, and do not provide timely information or support to
the affected minister.
21.   The Government's Program: The Government is taking actions to strengthen the public
sector financial management system and increase its integrity, Budget reforms identified in the
diagnostic work are improving short-term revenue and expenditure forecasting, increasing the
transparency of the budget document, establishing a new budget classification system, as well as
initiating measures to improve expenditure control. More broadly, the Government is undertaking
a comprehensive reform of its financial management system. Under the joint policy leadership of
the Ministry of Finance and the Comptroller General, the Integrated Financial Management
System (SIGFA) would seek to establish the concept and policy of operational decentralization of
authority and responsibility for financial management to individual spending units anchored by a
uniform and automated accounting system. The Government has secured assistance from several
donors to support discrete sub-components of the SIGFA system. USAID has committed $4.4
million to develop the accounting system and strengthen the audit capacity of the Office of the
Comptroller General. The UNDP is expected to approve $0.9 million for general capacity
building within the Comptroller General's office. The IDB has committed $1.5 million to further
develop the treasury, public credit, and procurement functions. The Government has requested
IDA to finance reforms in the area of budget formulation and internal audit and control.
Implementation of the SIGFA project would involve the full integration of all donor technical
assistance into a single team, with all consultants, regardless of financing source working under
the direction of an internationally experienced Technical Director, who would report to CERAP.
The Government would seek USAID, IDB, and IDA advice in the selection of the Technical
Director, who will be financed by USAID.
22.   Proposed IDA Assistance ($3.0 million in Technical Assistance and $.20 million for
Training): IDA would finance a competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a firm
with relevant international and specialized experience in public sector budgeting and internal
auditing. Long term residential advisory assistance, supported by short term consultants, would
assist the Ministry of Finance, the Commission for Government Financial Administration and
Control and spending agencies strengthen the budget formulation, programming, and evaluation
processes as well as reorient and strengthen the operation of internal audit units. Budget
formulation would center on macro-budgeting in advance of the detailed budget process;
improvements in the budget classification system and budget coverage, improvements in capital
and recurrent cost budgeting, and the design and introduction of an intergovernmental fiscal



12
transfer mechanism in support of local government. Programming would focus on the
development of processes linking budget implementation and cash management. Evaluation
would involve systems, linked to the service delivery surveys as possible, to evaluate budget
execution and results. The internal audit consultant would develop policies and procedures, well
coordinated with the external audit sub-system, for internal control mechanisms and internal audit
units in each institution reporting to the responsible minister. These units would not exercise
blanket ex ante control, but provide continuous ex-post audit review of transactions, systems,
policies, and procedures to ensure compliance as well as to evaluate and recommend
strengthening of internal controls, especially during the transition period to the new decentralized
financial management system. The level of effort of this proposed technical assistance is expected
to be about 96 person months of long term residential assistance and 32 months of short term
technical assistance. The consultant services contractor would be responsible for developing and
conducting appropriate short courses in the relevant budget and internal audit subsystem areas.
IDA would finance the participant and administrative expenses of these programs (estimated cost:
$0.20 million) which would be replicated and expanded by INAP.
23.   Expected Outputs: For the SIGFA generally, the following outputs are expected: (i) a
new, unified public sector financial management system and implementing regulations operative in
all spending agencies; (ii) a standardized and automated government-wide accounting system
operating in all spending agencies able to annually produce consolidated financial statements of
the central government, (iii) improved ex post audit capacity installed and operative in the Office
of the Comptroller General; (iv) improved cash management and treasury functions; and (v)
improved debt management operations and their integration into the Government's financial
management system. The IDA financed budget component would produce: (vi) a budget
document and process that covers all major revenue and expenditure sources; (vii) improved
budget classification in full accordance with accounting classifications; (viii) improved expenditure
forecasting and monitoring; (ix) the installation and application of a budgeting system which
emphasizes results and outcomes and associated performance indicators in all IRA institutions; (x)
improved capital and recurrent cost budgeting; (xi) the introduction of fiscal transfer budgeting;
and (xii) the issuance and periodic update of a Budget Manual that reflects the interrelationships
with accounting, treasury and debt management. Outputs expected from the internal audit
component would center on (xiii) the creation or strengthening of internal audit units in
participating IRA institutions and consequent measurable improvement in budget execution and
financial accountability.
Information Technology ($6.91 million, including training, 21% of total base costs):
24.   The Problem: A modern, well designed, and integrated information technology system is
critical to the institutional restructurings and improvements in human resource and financial
management systems contemplated under the public sector modernization program. Nicaragua's
progress in information technology development atrophied in the 1980s due to the absence of
suppliers, spare parts, and poor maintenance of the existing limited installed capacity. Although



13
the situation is improving, serious problems remain, as identified in studies6 completed during
project preparation:
* Only nine of 31 central government institutions have information centers and systems, and
these centers account for 83 percent of the government work force with computer training;
* There is a paucity of trained personnel in information systems technology. Although several
university programs are training technicians and professionals in the field, the Government's
non-competitive wage structure hampers its ability to attract and retain qualified information
systems specialists;
* Although the Government has received over 1,400 computers from donors in recent years,
their utility has been constrained because information systems are generally poorly developed,
with few connections between databases and the near total absence of networking;
* Hardware and software systems are diverse and often incompatible;
* In public sector financial management the absence of a universal information system
framework and architecture has led to the development of several specialized, stand-alone
systems which have had the perverse result of further fragmenting and weakening central
budgeting, expenditure control, and accounting systems,
* In the absence of a government-wide information technology plan and associated standards
and management arrangements, especially in the areas of public finance and human resources
management, program imbalances have emerged. For example, in the Ministry of Finance
technology support for revenue systems improvement is relatively well endowed while those
entities charged with expenditure control have been, with certain exceptions, ignored;
- Information equipment in several ministries experience periodic and prolonged breakdowns
due to inadequate maintenance budgets and service contracts; and
* A positive, although unintended, side-effect of Nicaragua's decade long hiatus in information
systems development is that the Government does not have a large investment in older
mainframe equipment and proprietary systems, and, therefore, is well positioned to adopt on a
systematic and comprehensive basis the new "open" technology and put in place modern
information systems without the need to develop extensive "bridging" programs with older,
closed systems.
25.   The Government's Program: Recognizing the need for carefully designed and sequenced
information technology investments to support its financial management and civil service reforms,
the Government has proposed a five-year program for differentiated investments at the center and
ministerial levels. The information systems design is consistent with the information systems
management model recommended by the IMF.7 The SIGFA central system at the Finance
6 Information Technology Diagnostic Study. Conceptual Framework, and Action Plan, October, 1994
Hashim and Allan, Core Functional Requirements for Fiscal Managecment Systems. IMF, March 1994



14
Ministry would require a super mini computer with capacity to handle 64 work stations to support
the accounting, budget, treasury, public credit and procurement sub-systems. The Controller
General's Office, and the three large spending agencies would require medium size computers and
the fifteen smaller agencies would require a smaller computer configuration. The cost of the
hardware, software and communications linkages is summarized in Table 5. The investment
would take account of existing information technology in the public sector, and is considered the
minimum necessary to appropriately support the policy and procedural reforms contemplated in
the institutional restructuring, financial management, and civil service components.
Table 5: Information System Hardware and Software Costs
(S thousands)
Institutions                               Cost
Ministry of Finance                                     942.
4 large ministries                                       546.
15 smaller ministries/institutions                     1,080.
TOTAL                                                  2,568.
26    The systems would be brought on-line in a staged manner starting the project's second
year to ensure implementation of the various sub-system reforms being financed by USAID, IDA,
and IDB. The terms and conditions governing each ministry's participation in information
technology investments would form an important part of the IRA. An indicative systems
installation plan is presented at Table 6. The Government has also prepared a comprehensive
training program under which 1,400 Ministry of Finance and spending agency personnel would be
trained over the five-year period through 24 specialized programs. Targeted personnel would be
drawn from three occupational categories; managers, end-users, and technical systems personnel.
Table 6: Indicative Information Technology Installation Schedule
Years
Institutions            1            2             3              4
Ministry of            X
Finance
2 large ministries                   X
7 small ministries/                  X
institutions
2 large ministries                                 X
8 small agencies/                                                X
institutions
27.   Proposed IDA Assistance ($3.0 million in Technical Assistance. $2.56 million
computers/software. $.50 million training): IDA would finance a competitively awarded, two-
year renewable contract with a firm with relevant international experience. The selected firm,
specialized in information systems development, would be responsible for assisting the



15
Government design and implement its information technology development program specifically
related to financial management and human resources systems development. IDA would also
finance the procurement of the required hardware and software. The Information Systems
Contractor would assist CERAP and the National Directorate for Information Systems in the
procurement process. Finally, IDA would finance the cost of the information technology training
program (estimated cost $0.50 million), which would be required to ensure the continued
development and sustained operation of the new financial management and human resources
information system. The contractor would provide the training, either directly or through sub-
contracting, in conjunction with INAP and the UNDP, which would be responsible for the
administering the participant training funds and logistical requirements.
28.   Expected Outputs: Major output indicators would be the installation and proper operation
of financial management and human resources information systems in up to 20 ministries and
decentralized agencies and the number of associated staff who have received training in various
aspects of information systems management and technology. Another important output indicator
would be the level and execution of information technology maintenance budgets.
Reform Management ($4.24 million, including training, 13% of total base cost):
29    The Government has sought to design a flexible management structure (see Figure 1) that
promotes debate and inclusion of key players while permitting timely decision making and
implementation of a complex reform process. CERAP has been empowered through Presidential
Decree 44-94 to articulate Government policy and strategy, approve draft laws for submission to
the President and legislature, and oversee program implementation and the institutional
restructuring process. CERAP is chaired by the Minister of the Presidency and is comprised of
the Ministers of Finance, Construction and Transport, Economic Development, Social Action,
Government, the two Vice Ministers of the Presidency and the Vice Minister of Finance, who
would also serve as the CERAP Executive Secretary. Presidential Decree 44-94 establishes
several commissions which would have responsibility for overseeing the development and
implementation of the various reform initiatives under the auspices of CERAP. Especially
important commissions for the project would include: Administrative Reform (i.e., institutional
restructuring), Civil Service; Government Financial Administration and Control; and
Decentralization. The analytical work of these commissions would be supported by relevant line
ministry personnel and national and international consultants as appropriate. CERAP members
would chair the respective commissions overseeing the specific reform components. The
CERAP Chairman can invite other ministers in an ex-officio capacity with the right to vote when
the subject matter would affect their sector. As a condition for credit effectiveness, CERAP
would prepare and issue the internal operating procedures for both CERAP and its subordinate
commissions. CERAP will establish an Advisory Committee to involve non-governmental interest
groups as authorized in Decree 44-94. It has already established a Donor Advisory Group on
Public Sector Modernization, which is expected to meet in-country on at least a quarterly basis.
30.   The Vice Minister of Finance has been named the CERAP Executive Secretary. The
Executive Secretary the Vice Minister would manage, on a continuous basis, the public sector
modernization program and IDA project. The Vice Minister would be supported by the



16
Coordinating Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector (UCRESEP). Through a PHRD Grant and
UNDP financing, this unit's operational structure has been defined and terms of reference drafted
for all key management and staff positions (see Figure 2). UCRESEP would be staffed initially
with Nicaraguan consultants with line responsibility for key program components, i.e. Institutional
Restructuring, Civil Service Reform, Integrated Financial Management, Information Technology,
Decentralization, Training, and Service Delivery Surveys. These staff would serve, as
appropriate, as counterparts to each of the principal institutional contractors as well as oversee
reform implementation. The Institutional Restructuring contractor, in addition to its responsibility
for providing technical assistance in its component area, would assist the Executive Secretary and
UCRESEP Director in overall coordination of components within the restructuring institutions.
These institutions would be required to designate a senior staff member to serve as the agency's
Counterpart Officer to work with the Executive Secretary, UCRESEP Director, staff and
consultants. Finally, UCRESEP would contract the services of a Chief Accountant, a
Procurement Officer and a lawyer. A long term resident advisor would assist the Executive
Secretary prepare the final reform design, launch, and assist in early program implementation.
During appraisal agreement was reached with the authorities on this staff complement and the
Government agreed to have the CERAP/UCRESEP staff in place before credit effectiveness.
31.   The Service Delivery Survey (SDS) would also be financed under the project management
component. The surveys would be an innovative and essential management tool both in
establishing initial IRA performance objectives and annually assessing improvements in service
delivery. EDI assisted the Government design the SDS instrument during project preparation and
would help conduct, during the first quarter of 1995, the baseline surveys for the first five
agencies initiating restructuring. Planning for the initial five surveys was initiated concurrent with
the IDA appraisal mission. UCRESEP would retain one or more local or regional contractors to
conduct the annual surveys and a professional with specific responsibility for managing the initial
institutional base-line and subsequent annual performance surveys.
32.   Proposed IDA Assistance ($2.6 million): IDA would support the CERAP Executive
Secretariat, the respective CERAP technical commissions and UCRESEP as presented in Table 7.
It would finance UCRESEP staff cost, the analytical work of the various commissions created
under Presidential Decree 44-94, the SDS, annual project audits, long term resident consultants,
and purchase of selected equipment.
Table 7: IDA Reform Management Support Financing
----          (US $ Thousands)   -
Reform Managemen       pprt        Cost
I. UCRESEP/COM. Staff Consultants    1,242.
2. SDS                                 312.
3. Annual Project Audits               125.
4. Resident Implementation Consultants    646.
5. Equipment                           275.
6. Total IDA Support                 2,600.



FIGURE I: MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE FOR THE REFORM OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
NICARAGUA
PRESIDENCY OF
|THE REPUBLIC
|__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   MINISTERS OF:
THE PRESIDENCY, CHAIRMAN
FINANCE
ECONOMY AND DEVELOPMENT
CONSTR. AND TRANSPORT
SOCIAL ACTION
V MINISTRY OF PRESIDENCY FOR
GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS
LEGAL COUNCIL                              PRIVATE SECTOR
l   l                           |~~~~~~~~~~ADV. COMMITTEE|
i    _ DONOR ADVIS.
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY                  ] GROUP (DAG)
COORDINATING UNIT FOR THE
REFORM OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
(UCRESEP)
SECTORIAL REFORM COMMISSIONS
Fl                   F   2l                      3 {  2               4              5
DECENTRALIZATION     CIVIL SERVICE &      INTEGRATED FINANC.    INSTITUTIONAL
ADM. CAREER         MANAGEMENT            STRUCTURAL REF.       OTHERS



FIGURE II: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR THE REFORM OF THE
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (CERAP)
NICARAGUA
CERAP
EXECUTIVE
SECRETARYI
PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT
{UR SEP)
.         | ~~~CONTRACTS            ;
COORDINAT. CONSULTANT/        F   OFFICER
__INSTITUT. RESTRUCTURING
------ -------- ----------  IINSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IISITTOALRSTUT
INST FIN MGT (BUD/ INT CONT)                                 INTEGRATED FINANC. MGT.
INSTIT CONTRACTOR                                                ACTION OFFICER
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                                         CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
r INSTITUT. CONTRACTOR   -------------------------                 ACTION OFFICER
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  IINFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
IINSTITUT. CONTRACTOR                      ----------ACTION OFFICER
TRAINING
ACTION OFFICER
SP DINf AGENCIES
INS  .RSTUCTURING
(I



17
Project Cost and Financing
33.   Total project costs, as shown on Table 8, have been estimated at $33.5 million over the
five-year project life. IDA financing of $23.0 million equivalent would cover approximately 69
percent of project costs while other donor contributions and the Government of Nicaragua would
finance 24 percent and 7 percent respectively.
Table 8: Estimated Project Cost by Activity and Source
.(US $ millions)
Project                         IDA           Other      Government       Total**
Activity                                     Donors*
Institutional Restructuring      5.7           0.0           0.57           6.27
Civil Service Reform             2.7           0.0           0.27           2.97
Financial Management             2.9           6.8           0.29           9.99
Information Technology           5.6           0.0           0.56           6.16
Training/Obs.Travel/Sem.**       2.7           0.4           0.27           3.37
Reform Management                2.6           1.0           0.26           3.86
Contingencies                    0.8           0.0           0.08           0.88
TOTAL                           23.0           8.2           2.30          33.50
* Other donors include USAID, IDB and UNDP.
** Component base cost estimates presented in MOP (paras. 7-1I1) incorporate pro rata training cost allocation in each
respective project component.
34.   The estimated division between local and foreign exchange costs of IDA financing is
presented at Table 9 by expenditure category.
Table 9: Estimated IDA Local Currency and Foreign Exchange Financing
(US $ Thousands)
Activity                   Local           Foreign           Total
Consultant Services (62 %)                   2,860.          11,440.          14,300.
Institutional Restructuring                 1,138.          4,554.           5,692.
Civil Service Reform                         549.           2,195.           2,744.
Budget and Internal Audit                    573.           2,291.           2,864.
Information Technology                       600.           2,400.           3,000.
Computer Hardware/Software (11%)                 0.           2,568.           2,568.
Training/Travel Tours/Sem (12)               1,646.           1,046.           2,692.
Reform Management (11%)                      1,601.             999.           2,600.
Contingencies (4%)                             252.             580.             840.
Total IDA Financing                          6,359.          16,633.          23,000.



18
SECTION B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Implementation
35.   As described in para. 30 above, the CERAP Executive Secretary would serve as the
operationally responsible manager for the public sector reform program. The Executive Secretary
would be supported by the UCRESEP. This unit would have substantive staff to oversee various
reform components and supervise institutional contractors and long term advisors, as well as staff
to assist in the day to day administrative management of the project and other donor
contributions. INAP, with the support of the UNDP, would manage training activities other than
the core training programs initially administered by the respective institutional contractors (see
Schedule 2).
Procurement
36.   Contracts for goods (computer equipment and software) shall be packaged into lots
valued at $100,000 equivalent or more and would be procured through Limited International
Bidding (LIB) for an estimated aggregate amount of $2.6 million. LIB procedures are justified
given the small number of providers with after-delivery service in Nicaragua. Contracts for other
goods and equipment with estimated values of less than $100,000 equivalent would be procured
using international shopping procedures; and contracts below $25,000 equivalent for other goods
and equipment would be procured through local shopping. Local and international shopping
procedures combined would be applied to contracts up to an aggregate amount of $500,000
equivalent. Standard IDA bidding documents would be used for LIB. All procurement for
training under the various components would be in accordance with IDA guidelines. [NAP would
administer training activities with the assistance of UNDP (see Technical Annex, Schedule 2,
para. 4). Consultant services would be procured in accordance with IDA Consultants guidelines
dated August, 1981. For the four large institutional consulting contracts, IDA's standard form of
contract would be used for consulting services . Terms of reference for all consultant contracts
would be satisfactory to IDA. All LIB procurement of goods, all individual consulting contracts
above $50,000 equivalent, and all contracts with consulting firms above $100,000 equivalent,
including the four major institutional contracts, would be subject to prior review by IDA. The
exemption from prior review for consulting contracts below the $50,000 and $100,000 thresholds
would only apply to contracts up to an aggregate value of $1.0 million equivalent. Finally, to
ensure consistency in the administration of individual contracts valued below $50,000 equivalent
the first three individual consultant contracts in each calendar year would be subject to prior
review by IDA. These review arrangements would provide for IDA review of approximately 80
percent of the value of all contracts financed by IDA.
Disbursements and Financing
37.   The project is expected to be implemented over a five year period. Disbursements would
be administered by UCRESEP. All withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except
for expenditures under contracts for goods valued below US$100,000 equivalent, individual
consultant contracts valued at or below $50,000 equivalent after the first three approved each



19
year and consultant firm contracts valued at or below $100,000 equivalent up to $1.0 million
which would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures would be retained by UCRESEP and made available for
review by auditors and by IDA staff UNDP would provide "bridge" financing, as needed, to
cover project activities initiated prior to loan effectiveness. Retroactive financing in an amount of
SDR 1,360,000 (US$2 million equivalent), approximately 9 percent of the credit, would be
available for eligible expenditures incurred after January 30, 1995. This financing would cover the
cost of additional diagnostic work and project start-up activities. A Special Account in US
dollars would be opened in the Central Bank, with an authorized allocation of $1.5 million
equivalent. Annual audit reports would be produced, starting in December, 1995, at the end of
each calendar year and submitted to IDA within six months after year end. The expected project
completion date is June 30, 2000 and the credit closing date would be December 31, 2000. An
implementation completion report would be prepared by the Government and submitted to IDA
no later than June, 30, 2001.
Monitoring and Evaluation
38.   IDA would supervise the implementation of the credit through frequent supervision
missions with a total annual supervision input of approximately 20 staff weeks. Assurances were
obtained that: (a) the Government would provide IDA with semi-annual progress reports; (b)
annual reviews of project implementation would be conducted jointly by the Government and IDA
no later than March 30 of each year, starting in 1996. The annual reviews would include, inter
alia: (i) project performance against the matrix of key project activities and implementation
targets, (ii) progress of each participating institution under the terms of its respective IRA; (iii)
management performance of UCRESEP, (iv) INAP's training program management; and (v)
policy and coordination activities of CERAP; (c) a comprehensive mid-term review would take
place no later than June 30, 1997, replacing the annual review, in which the following, inter alia,
would be discussed additionally: (i) the new Administration's assessment and continued
commitment to the reform program; (ii) overall progress of the reform program, particularly the
integration of separate component activities into a cohesive and complementary set of actions; (iii)
institutional capacity to carry on (or, alternatively, slow down or speed up) project activities; and
(iv) project redesign or corrective actions, as needed; and (d) to substantially achieve
implementation targets as in Schedule 1 (a) and (b). Terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
would be prepared by the Government for the mid-term review.






Annex I
NICARAGUA
DRAFT INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT'
BETWEEN THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM
AND THE
MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
CONSIDERATIONS
Whereas, the Government of Nicaragua wishes to become an Administration with the
capacity to be decisive, modern, small, strong, facultative, efficient and technologically
able to produce services of quality through improved allocation and utilization of
resources suitable for the development of an appropriate economic and social framework
for the financing of democracy in the country,
Whereas, in order to improve the level of services that the Public Sector extends to the
population it is necessary to deepen the process of institutional restructuring, which has
already been initiated in the ministries and autonomous institutions, including improving
financial administration, human resources, and technical systems,
Whereas, in the Public Sector there exists a dispersion of responsibilities and obsolete
technology which do not contribute to an efficient administration and which can
compromise economic stability and create obstacles for productive growth,
Whereas, the Presidency of the Republic created on the 28 of October 1994, by means of
Decree No. 44-94, the Executive Committee for Public Administration Reform (CERAP)
to lead the strategy in the process of reform. The same Decree created both the Executive
Secretary to oversee the execution, supervise, and monitor the plans and programs
approved by the Committee, and the Coordinating Unit for the Reform and Modernization
of the Public Sector (UCRESEP),
In addition, the reform created seven Sectorial Reform Commissions, whose functions are
to assure implementation of sector reforms, design plans and programs and submit viable
sectorial alternatives to CERAP,
Whereas, the functions of UCRESEP are to monitor the execution of the reform projects,
offer technical and operational support to the Executive Secretary, and administer the
financial resources of the World Bank and other organizations,
I Informal translation of working draft IRA.



Whereas, the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) has
initiated a process of institutional and legal restructuring,
Whereas, MARENA would like to effect substantial changes in its accounting, budgeting,
human resources and information systems, to strengthen its administration and cost
controls, and augment the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of its service delivery,
THEREFORE:
Mr. Antonio Lacayo Oyaguran, Minister of the Presidency, as Coordinator of CERAP,
married, residing in Managua, Industrial Engineer; and Mrs. Mirna Somarriba Garcia, Vice
Minister of Finance, as Executive Secretary of CERAP, married, residing in Managua,
Economist, both representing the Executive Committee for Public Administration Reform,
and Mr. Milton Caldera, Minister of MARENA, married, residing in Managua, Economist,
representing MARENA, agree to this Institutional Restructuring Agreement (IRA), and
establish the norms of conduct in relation to the participation of MARENA in the
Institutional Restructuring Program, based on the following rights and obligations.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
Clause 1: Objective. The final objective of this Institutional Restructuring Agreement
(IRA) is to increase and improve the quality of the services rendered to society and
increase efficiency in the use of taxpayers' resources.
Clause 2: Obligations of the Ministry. In order to obtain these objectives, the Ministry
commits itself to implement the following types of actions in the period of twelve months.
It is understood that the actions for the second year will be determined during the ninth
month of implementation of the first year, and will be incorporated into this Agreement, by
way of an amendment to Clauses 3, 4, and 5, signed by mutual consent of the parties.
Clause 3: Actions for the Improvement of the Quality and Efficiency of the Services. To
begin the fulfillment of the goal to improve the quality of services, MARENA will proceed
to develop the Service Evaluation System (SES) in a period of    months. The SES will
be incorporated into the restructuring process and will be used as a tool in the decision
making process, to institutionalize the process of performance evaluation. To develop
SES, MARENA agrees to use two sources of information: compilation of administrative
statistics and user surveys, according to the Plan of Action and Timetable attached in
Annex 1, which is an integral part of this IRA.
Clause 4: Actions for the Improvement of the Institutional Structure. MARENA is
committed to accomplish the activities of the Plan of Action and Time Frame attached in
Annex 2, which is an integral part of this IRA.
Clause 5: Actions to support the Institutional Restructuring and the Reforms of the Civil
Service, Financial, and Information Technology Services of the Public Sector, MARENA
2



is committed to accomplish the activities of the Plan of Action and Time Frame attached in
Annex 3, which is an integral part of this IRA.
Clause 6: Obligations of CERAP. To accomplish the requirements of the restructuring
process in MARENA, CERAP will in turn be committed to finance the activities by
component according to the description attached in Annex 4, Plan of Technical
Assistance, which is an integral part of this IRA.
Clause 7: Time Periods. The obligations of the parties should be executed according to
the plan of action and schedules attached as an integral part of this Agreement in Annexes
1, 2, 3 and 4.
Clause 8: Time Period of IRA. The period of this IRA is twenty four months beginning
on the date of signature, with the option to extend it for an additional year, with the
written agreement of the parties.
Clause 9: Coordination, Monitoring, and Control. For the effect of coordination, and
monitoring of the activities herein, CERAP has designated the Coordinating Unit for the
Reform and Modernization of the Public Sector (UCRESEP). MARENA should assign a
representative of the highest level of the Ministry as a representative to UCRESEP and a
member of the staff, dedicated full time to the implementation of the Institutional
Restructuring Program in accordance with this IRA CERAP and MARENA are to meet
formally every trimester to discuss the progress and advances of the IRA, as well as other
issues associated with its implementation.
Clause 10: Reports. MARENA will provide to the Executive Secretary four progress
reports on a trimester basis during the year on the implementation of activities in
accordance with this agreement. Every report should be delivered two weeks before the
quarterly meeting with Executive Secretary, in its original form along with written copies
and one magnetic copy. Additionally, CERAP will be able to solicit at any moment it feels
necessary, either directly or by way of the Executive Secretary, verbal or written reports,
partial or complete, on the implementation of the activities that are contemplated in this
IRA.
Clause 11: Evaluation. CERAP will conduct two external evaluations at the end of each
year, for the duration of this IRA. These evaluations will serve as the basis for
modification, expansion and termination of the Agreement during the next year.
Furthermore, CERAP will be able to accommodate additional evaluations when it
considers pertinent
Clause 12: Modifications to the Agreements. This Agreement will be neither totally nor
partially modified in its parts without the written consent of the official representatives of
CERAP and MARENA.
3



The parties therefore decide to sign the present Institutional Restructuring Agreement,
which is initiated at signature in the city of Managua on    1995.
Ing. Antonio Lacayo 0.                              Lic. Mirna Somarriba G.
Minister of the Presidency                           Vice Minister of Finance
CERAP Coordinator                               Executive Secretary of CERAP
Mst. Milton Caldera
Minister of the Environment and Natural Resources
4



ANNEX 1
SES SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND ACTIVITIES
SOURCE: Compilation of Administrative Statistics
Commitments of MARENA:
Determine monthly administrative costs as a percentage of total ministry expenditures.
Elaborate in    months a review of internal management procedures, including time
required for operations and internal delays.
Determine in    months the number of complaints per month, reasons for them, and time
required for their resolution.
SOURCE: User Surveys
Commitment of MARENA
Design and administer in    months a survey among product distributors and agricultural
and wood product producers, on the marketing, purchase and application of
agrochemicals, fertilizers and pesticides.
Design and administer in    months a survey of municipalities, to determine information
gaps on the status and quality of water, soil, forests, and control of residential and
insdustrial wastes.
5



ANNEX 2
ACTION PLAN AND TIMETABLE OF ACTIVITIES
TO IMPROVE THE INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE
MARENA agrees to perform the following activities:
Readapt the mission and functions of MARENA, using workshops during March 1995
and technical assistance of 30 consultant-days, to readapt, transform, and consolidate its
mission, objectives, functions, and organization.
The mission will allow the development of the following functions: formulate, evaluate,
follow up, coordinate, promote, and facilitate natural resources policy, strategy, and
implementation, natural resources sustainability; prevention and control of environment
emergencies and disasters, and broader intersectorial participation of municipalities, public
agencies, the private sector, and civil society.
To accomplish the mission, the workshops will analyze the following five priority areas of
MARENA:
*  Transforming MARENA's Institutional Structure
*  Incentive Regime
*  Investment Project Management
*  Transformation and/or Privatization of Investment Projects
*  Transformation of Internal Procedures
During the workshops, decisions will be taken to better allocate budget resources in
relation to environmental strategy.
To effect its transformation, MARENA will complete the following activities:
-In three months implement the new organizational structure.
-In four months draft a new organic law.
-In four months initiate a study to create new regulatory entities.
In seven months adapt regulations and propose new legislation; consult and negotiate with
the donors, NGOs, sector and municipalities; evaluate those functions to be
transferred/delegated, and implement the new processes selected.
In MARENA Headquarters:
In four months reduce administrative expenditures up to 20%.
In four months privatize the cafeteria, security, transportation, and cleaning services.
6



In two months replace sectorial divisions with three divisions that will handle: policies and
strategy; regulation and control, and institutional relations, to the end of unifying Ministry
policies, improving communication, coordination, and regulation, and reducing
administrative costs.
In two months determine the functions that will be delegated or transferred.
MARENA PROJECTS
In two months, reduce 20% of administrative positions.
In three months, eliminate duplication in administrative and financial functions in projects
in order to improve the follow up and control
In    months create a master plan and timetable to transfer, decentralize, or privatize
forest supervision activities, hatcheries, laboratories, workshops, wood production, and
construction materials.
CREATION OF INCENTIVES
FONDOSILVA
Reform administrative procedures in FONDOSILVA
Strengthen FONDOSILVA's ability to apply environmental norms and allocate budget
resources to priority areas.
OTHER INCENTIVES
Analyze the current situation in the application of incentives and identify alternative
incentives such as creation of jobs in the productive sector, promotion of sustainable
development with the preservation of biodiversity; creation of guarantee funds for the
creation of new companies, and/or to privatize existing entities.
To transform the management of investment projects in order to create appropriate
development in the areas influenced by the projects, allow groups to take advantage of the
natural resources, promote the creation of job opportunities and social equality,
MARENA in the period of eight months should accomplish the following activities:
* Analyze and evaluate existing projects in terms of their environmental, social, legal,
technical, administrative and financial terms. Analyze and resolve outstanding
questions of title, eminent domain, and inventory of state property.
* Evaluate and select viable alternatives
7



* Begin the institutional strengthening by consulting donors, public agencies, NGOS and
municipalities, implementing selected reforms, and promoting assistance and training
to public agencies, NGOs, and communities involved.
FOR TRANSFORMATION AND PRIVATIZATION OF FOUR INVESTMENT
PROJECTS
In eight months create the following activities for the transformation, privatization, and/or
transfer to other public agencies of; ADFORES, Northeast Forest Project, Atlantic Forest
Project, and the Seed Bank and Center for Genetic Improvement.
Analyze and evaluate the four projects in terms of land title, eminent domain, and state
property.
Evaluate and select viable alternative structures.
Initiate negotiations with donors, implement selected transformation procedures, and
design the terms of reference for the bidding process for those projects to be privatized.
Ensure the protection of biodiversity, and the protection of patrimony, environmental
education, and generation of job opportunities at a local level and the private sector.
In six months:
After appropriate evaluation and selection of alternatives, transform, decentralize,
transfer, privatize, and/or grant concessions on the following: Zool6gico Nacional,
Reservas Naturales Urbanas, Servicios Turisticos y Parque Nacional Volcan Masaya.
TRAINING (in coordination with UCRESEP)
In    months train    staff of MARENA in environmental evaluation of projects and
environmental audit.
In _ months train _staff of public agencies, NGOs, municipalities, communities, and
the private sector in natural resource management.
In    months train    staff of MARENA, public agencies, NGOs, municipalities, and
communities, in the design, installation, and management of client service oriented
environmental techniques, networks, and computer systems.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Implementation of the new organizational structure
Number of privatized, transferred, and/or delegated projects
8



Reduction in employees in the administrative and financial areas of the project
management.
Elimination of duplication in administrative and financial functions in project management.
Number of environmental norms of procedures created.
Number of activities privatized, transferred, and/or delegated.
Numbers of positions created to foster environmental activities.
TIME FRAME - To Be Determined
9



ANNEX 3
ACTION PLAN AND TIMETABLE OF ACTIVITIES
TO SUPPORT THE INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND
REFORM THE HUMAN RESOURCES, FINANCIAL, AND
COMPUTER SCIENCE SERVICES IN THE INSTITUTION
REFORM OF THE CIVIL SERVICE (Administration of Human Resources)
FIRST STEP
* To provide the Directorate of Public Functions in the Ministry of Finance with basic
data during the 60 days after this agreement is signed in order to expand information
on available human resources.
* During March, 1995 MARENA personnel files will be updated.
* In the following 60 days, create, review, and organize a list of employees including
their experience and academic background.
SECOND STEP
Install multi-user computer hardware initially consisting of a 485 PC with 8 Mc of
memory and 200 MB of hard drive.
With the objective of eliminating duplication, redundancies, and to adjust the organization
to the necessities--once MARENA's mission and organizational structure are generally
defined, MARENA will over 11 months:
- Determine the organization structure (in first month).
* Conclude the minimum profile of personnel required.
* Define the responsibilities and duties of positions (in three months).
* Compare the requirements of the new structure against the available personnel (in two
months).
* Parallel to the previous activity, identify redundant personnel.
* Classify positions according to their complexity and level of responsibility.
* Design a methodology for personnel performance evaluation.
In    months strengthen the office responsible for the administration of human resources.
In _ months design a training program for key areas of the Ministry.
10



THIRD STEP
In coordination with UCRESEP:
*  Train in _months    staff of the Human Resources Division in "Coping with
Changes in Human Resources Administration".
*  Train in    months a    staff of the Human Resources Division in selecting,
recruiting, hiring, evaluating, training, and paying staff.
*  Train in    months    employees in concepts such as team work, quality control,
management of organizational change and institutional restructuring.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: To Be Determined
TIME FRAME: To Be Determined
REFORM OF FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
In two months perform a financial audit in order to develop one accounting system that
will allow the identification of the origin of three sources of funds: ordinary, external and
user funds. Establish opening balances and use norms incorporating MIFIN accounting
and budgeting guidelines.
Once the mission, functions, and new structural organization are established in _
months, consolidate financial functions and the budget, regardless of the source of funds
or their use in line with the Budget Schedule in the Annual Budget Law and Article 16 of
the Regulations for Budget Execution.
In _ months report all revenues and expenditures according to "Decree on Revenues"
and Articles 11 and 12 of the Annual Budget Law.
In    months apply measurement indicators to monitor implementation.
Once the mission, functions, and the new organization are established, develop in a period
of    months financial indicators to measure budget execution against the new goals,
objectives, and programs.
In    months review budget accounts according to the new expenditure and revenue
classifications created by MIFIN.
In    months, submit the fiscal-financial accounts obtained monthly or quarterly
according to Art. 12 and 30 of the Annual Budget Law.
11



In    months prioritize the analysis of programs and classifications by criteria, object of
expenditure, and revenue in order to redesign programs and projects.
Register and transfer expenditure transactions from MARENA to MIFIN through one
diskette in order to update the central budget system, where the "bridge system" has been
developed by the National Directorate of Information Technology in MIFIN.
Include in the budget the resources necessary for the acquisition of supplies (diskette,
ribbons, etc.) and the maintenance of the hardware and software.
Conduct an external financial audit at the end of the first year to help improve financial
administration.
Submit to the Minister, with copies to MIFIN, a consolidated financial statement for
MARENA.
In     months develop an evaluation system to judge project implementation .
TRAINING
In coordination with UCRESEP train   employees overseas and    employees within
the country in investment and risk evaluation. Train   employees in    months in the
management of new classifications by object of expenditure.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: To Be Determined
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REFORM
Under the guidance and coordination with the National Directorate for Information
Technology in MIFIN, proceed with the following activities:
In    months establish and consolidate the Strategic Information Plan (SIP) to update the
technological platform to be used in coordination with MIFIN; train human resources in
information technology; accelerate automation procedures; and build and prioritize the list
of projects.
Increase the compatibility of information with MIFIN and other institutions, incorporating
the activities mentioned in this agreement, and developing a five year action plan.
SIP will incorporate, among other things, the development of an information system based
on a database that will allow automatic file updating, generation of reports, updating of
on-line processes, consolidating information, and exchanging information with private and
public entities (i.e. MIFIN and municipalities)
12



SIP must take into account the automatization process of MARENA's divisions with
partner private and public entities with whom they jointly control and supervise activities.
In    months initiate the SIP implementation activities, taking in consideration software,
and system design of the government wide Sistema Informatico Institucional Local
(SIFGA)--(i.e. budget, accounting, treasury, civil service, etc.) in order to follow technical
guidelines of SIFGA and facilitate information exchange between MARENA and MIFIN.
Use information technology procedures and standards established by SIGFA.
TRAINING
In coordination with UCRESEP train in    months    employees in information
technology systems maintenance.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: To Be Determined
13



ANNEX 4
PLAN FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TIMETABLE
Assistance per Component
Selective salary incentives to essential professional personnel in accordance with those to
be established in the new Salary System for Managerial and Technical Staff.
Financing of technical assistance and the training necessary to implement the process of
institutional restructuring, with the intention to provide MARENA with the tools to
improve budgeting and public spending and the quality of the services provided (i.e.
observational trips, SES) totaling US$ _.
Technical assistance and financing of equipment and training to improve personnel
administration totaling US$
Technical assistance and financing of equipment and training to improve financial
administration totaling US$
Training in the area of Services Evaluation System.
Increase budget releases to MARENA to a trimester equivalent level.
Technical assistance totaling US$ _ to support institutional restructuring.
Training packets for personnel in the following areas (management, information
technology, financial administration, personnel administration) for    employees totaling
US$ _.
Hardware, software, systems, and training for SIGFA system.
14



Nicaragua
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECTS ACTIVITIES
Main Govemment Project Component Activities   Expected Output                Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                   Responsibilities
1. Improve service  All activities               Measurable improvement by   CERAP and participating    Government/IDA annual, mid-
delivery                                         end of project in service    IRA institutions.         term and final evaluations.
delivery from all participating
IRA institutions;
2. Increase public   All activities              Quantifiable increase in public CERAP and participating  GovemmenVIDA annual, mid-
savings                                          savings generated by partici-  IRA institutions.       term and final evaluations.
pating IRA institutions.
Institutional Restructuring:  Improved service delivery in   CERAP and IRA par-      By end of Project Year 1: 5 IRA
Assist Govemment define and    each participating IRA insti-   ticipating institutions.  institutions participating in
implement a Govemment-wide   tution as measured by annual                             program.
institutional restructuring process  Service Delivery Surveys/
consistent with program objec-    management reviews; and                             By end of Project Year 2: 5
tives. Assist CERAP: design/   more rational and cost ef-                             additional IRA institutions
implement IRA process; design   fective recurrent and capital                        participating in the program;
and carry-out diagnostic studies   expenditures at specific IRA
for prospective IRA institutions;  institution level and for public                   By end of Project Year 3-5: up
assist IRA institutions implement  sector as a whole as re-                          to 10 additional IRA Institutions
their respective IRA programs;   flected by each participating                       join program. Restructuring
and conduct annual performance  institution's contribution to                         process in original 10 partici-
reviews.                      increased public savings.                               pating IRA institutions expanded/
deepened.                         CO
0
~CD
'a



Main Govemment  Project Component Activities   Expected Output               Institutional Arrangements  Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                   Responsibilities
Civil Service Reform:         Civil Service code and      CERAP, DIGEFUP and         By end of Project Year 1: Draft
Assist Govemment: frame and   supporting service-wide      personnel divisions in all    civil service code; active manage-
implement merit based civil   personnel management sys-   participating IRA institutions.  ment upgrading program in
service law/implementing regu-  tem in place; computerized                           personnel divisions of initial
lations; develop/maintain com-   occupational classification                         5 IRA institutions.
puterzed occupational clas-   system, establishment
sification system and estab-  register and merit-based salary                        By end of Project Year 2: Com-
lishment register; develop/   schedule in place and opera-                           puterized occupational clas-
selectively apply incentive based  tive in all IRA institutions;                     sification system, establishment
salary-structure; carry-out   general management and                                 register and merit-based occu-
selective staff reductions;   personnel administration                               pational salary schedule in place
strengthen personnel divisions   training delivered to 2,000                         in all IRA participating institu-
in participating IRA institutions;   civil servants; upgraded                        tions; INAP delivering training in
strengthen management capacity personnel administration                              management and personnel
of DIGEFUP; and train civil   management capacity within                             administration in active IRA
servants in management and    all participating IRA institutions                     institutions.
personnel administration      DIGEFUP and INAP.
By end of Project Year 2: Com-
puterized personnel administra-
tion and management up-grading
program extended to 5 additional
IRA institutions and associated
training delivered by INAP under
contract.
By end of Project Year 3-5:
personnel systems upgrading
and training delivered to all
remaining IRA institutions or
intensified and deepened per-
sonnel management program         0)
executed in 10 original par-       .
Iticipating IRA institutions.      OL
CD  z
.   _                 <D~~~~~~~~t



Main Govemment Project Component Activities   Expected Output              Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                 Responsibilities
Integrated Financial         New financial legislation,  MIFIN and all IRA         For Global SIFGA (Multi-donor)
Management:                  policies, regulations;      institutions.             By end of Project Year 1:
Global SIGFA (Multi-donor)   procedures; improved ex post                          Technical definition/design of
Establisment of an integrated  audit capacity;                                     integrated financial management
financial management system                                                        system (SIGFA) complete;
to improve govemment effec-                                                        SIGFA Technical Directorate
tiness and ability to plan, ad-                                                    fully operational. Draft financial
minister, and control public re-                                                   law to assembly;
sources. Donors include USAID:
accounting and audit; IDB                                                          By end of Project Year 2: New
treasure, public credit and pro-                                                   financial management system
curement; IDA: budget and                                                          codified; accounting system
intemal audit; UNDP training in                                                    operational; and institutional
Contraloria.                                                                       audits completed in at least 4
IRA ministries.
IDA Budget Formulation and   Improved budget process                               For IDA Budget Formulation and
Intemal Control Component    with emphasis on results/                             Intemal Control Component
Upgrade budget formulation   outcomes and on expenditure                           By the end of Project Year 1:
capacity with emphasis on    planning and strengthened                             Budget structure and manual,
development of a system of    intemal controls. System of                          expenditure planning and in-
stable, results-oriented multi-    intergovemmental fiscal trans-                  temal control and audit systems
year budgets within macro-   fers established.                                     design completed; pilot budget
spending targets; strengthen                                                       formulation process in 4 IRA
intemal audit and control                                                          institutions underway; intemal
processes.                                                                         audit and financial control
system evaluated and
strengthened in 4 participating
IRA institutions.
CO
0
CD
CD



Main Govemment Project Component Activities   Expected Output              Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives               .                                                 Responsibilities
Integrated Financial                                                              By end of Project Year 2:
Management                                                                        results oriented budget system
and improved intemal expendi-
ture control and intemal audit
systems operational in 5 ad-
ditional participating IRA insti-
tutions.
By end of Project Year 3-5:
MIFIN and all particpating IRA
institutions preparing valid
budget documents which cover
all revenues/expenditures and
allow for comparison of program/
activity expenditures over at
least three years; system of
inter-govemmental fiscal trans-
fers operational; strong cor-
relation between results oriented
budget process, improved in-
temal financial management
control and enhanced service
delivery and increased public
savings in all participating IRA
institutions.
ci
0
tD
CD
CD



Main Govemment Project Component Activities   Expected Output                Institutional Arrangements  Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                   Responsibilities
Information Technology        The installation and proper    CERAP with MIFIN as lead   By end of Project Year 1:
System.                       operation of financial manage- institution for systems  SIGFA and Civil Service (central
Assist Govemment design,      ment and human resources    design and management.    and local) information systems
install and operate within    information systems in MIFIN  IRA line ministers responsi-  design complete and hardware,
MIFIN and all participating IRA    and up to 19 other partici-  ble for management and  software, and communications
institutions a computerized   pating IRA institutions.    proper utilization of installed  procurement initiated for MIFIN
financial management and                                  systems, including provisions and 4 IRA institutions.
human resources information                               of recurrent operating costs,
system.                                                   at the ministryrinstitution  By end of Project Year 2:
level.                    SIGFA and Civil Service (central)
information systems operating
and MIFIN personnel trained;
SIGFA + Civil Service Systems
(local) operational in 4 IRA
institutions and all IRA staff
trained in system operation.
By end of Project Year 2:
SIGFA + Civil Service (local)
system design and procurement,
training complete for 5 additional
participating IRA institutions.
By end of Project Year 3-5:
Up to 10 additional SIGFA and
Civil Service (local) systems
installed and participating IRA
institutions staffed and trained
in system operation.
co
0.
CD
'.-



Main Govemment  Project Component Activities   Expected Output                 Institutional Arrangements  Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                      Responsibilities
Human Resources Training:    For the MIFIN and each par-   CERAP/UCRESEP                By end of Project Year 1:
Assist the Govemment through   ticipating IRA institution, a  responsible for coordination   Component consultants have
the institutional restructurng proc- significant cohort of senior  of training program devel-    developed and pilot-tested first
ess,civil service,financial manage- and middle level managers    opment. Respective con-    round training modules in 4
ment and information technology  and technicians will have  sultant teams will be       participating IRA institutions in:
components provide up to 8,000  received training in four key   responsible for course devel- Public Management; Personnel
training units in general manage- areas: general management,  opment and initial training    Administration; Financial
ment; personnel administration;   personnel adm.; financial  of trainers; INAP, with UNDP  Management; and Information
budget formulation and internal   management and information  support, will be responsible   Technology.
control and information systems  technology.                for training administration
management and operation.                                   and subsequent training
program replication.
By end of Project Year 2:
1,000 civil servants from 10
participating IRA institutions
have received short course and
OJT in four subject matter areas:
management; personnel ad-
ministration; financial manage-
ment and management infor-
mation systems.
By end of Project Year 3-5:
2,000 civil servants annually
from up to additional 10 par-
ticipating IRA institutions re-
ceive recurrent rounds of OJT
and short course training in four
core training areas. This in-
cludes successive rounds of
training for participants in all   g.
_______________________________   _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _  ______________  participating   IRA   institutions.
'
CD 
0)



Schedule 1 (b)
NICARAGUA: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                              TARGET DATE
Part A: Institutional Restructuring Program:
1. CERAP to prepare, negotiate, and sign                    3rd Quarter, 1995
five Institutional Restructuring
Arrangements (IRAs);
2. Design and execute, for 5 Eligible Institutions,         4th Quarter, 1995
"change management" training programs to be
developed under Part A. 1(d) of the Project;
3. Complete diagnostic studies and action                   1st Quarter, 1996
plans for five (5) prospective Eligible
Institutions;
4. CERAP to complete annual performance                     3rd Quarter, 1996
reviews of the initial five (5) Eligible Institutions
under existing IRAs;
5. CERAP to negotiate 2nd year Action                       3rd Quarter, 1996
Plans for initial five (5) Eligible Institutions
under existing IRAs;
6. CERAP to prepare, negotiate and sign                     2nd Quarter, 1996
five additional IRAs;
7. Design and execute, for 10 Eligible Institutions,        4th Quarter, 1996
"change management" training programs to be
developed under Part A. 1(d) of project;
8. CERAP to negotiate with Eligible Institutions             2nd Quarter, 1997
respective 2nd and, if applicable, 3rd year IRAs
and action plans;



Schedule 1 (b)
Part B: Civil Service Reform Program:
1. Define the powers, organizational                          2nd Quarter, 1995
structure and staffing requirements of Directorate
General of Public Functions (DIGEFUP) for the
implementation of Part B of the Project;
2. Prepare action plan for the development                     3rd Quarter, 1995
of a merit based civil service system;
3 Define policy and program for the creation of                3rd Quarter, 1995
the Borrower's Servicio Gerencial y Tecnico (SGT);
4. Prepare a personnel administration management                I st Quarter, 1996
development model for all Eligible Institutions and                (Continuing)
develop and implement, on a continuous basis,
a training program for management and personnel
staff in human resource management for all Eligible
Institutions under existing IRAs;
5. Implement pilot test of SGT in five Eligible                2nd Quarter, 1996
Institutions under existing IRAs;
6. Develop a public sector human                               3rd  Quarter, 1996
resources management information
system at the national level (SISEC Central)
and comparable system (SISEC Local)
in five Eligible Institutions under existing
IRAs;
7. Improve SISEC Central and install                            4th Quarter, 1997
SISEC Local in five additional Eligible
Institutions under existing IRAs;
8. Develop ajob classification system                          3rd  Quarter, 1996
for the Central Government;
9. Install a job classification system                         4th Quarter, 1996
in five (5) Eligible Institutions under
existing IRAs;
10. Install ajob classification system                         2nd Quarter, 1997
in five (5) additional Eligible Institutions
with IRAs;
2



Schedule 1 (b)
11. Develop standardized, government-wide                    4th Quarter, 1996
wage and remuneration's policy linked to the
job classification system referred to in 8 above;
12. Review civil service legislation and                     4th Quarter, 1996
prepare civil service code;
13. Prepare implementing regulation                          2nd Quarter, 1997
for the new civil service code
referred to in 12 above;
Part C: Budget Formulation and Internal Audit
1. Prepare an action plan for budget formulation            2nd Quarter, 1995
and consultant terms of reference approved
by the Financial Management Working Commission;
2. Prepare an action plan for internal audit                2nd Quarter, 1995
activities and consultant terms of reference approved
by the Financial Management Working Commission;
3. Restructure Directorate General of Budget                 1 st Quarter, 1996
consistent with new budget orientation;
4. Complete new chart of accounts                           2nd Quarter, 1996
consistent with revised budget/accounting
classification;
5. Complete and publish a Manual on Budget                  3rd Quarter, 1996
Implementation, Follow-up and Evaluation;
6. Complete and publish a Manual on Internal                3rd Quarter, 1996
Audit Procedures and Practices;
7. Complete design and draft legislation for                 1st Quarter, 1996
introduction of inter-governmental fiscal transfer
system;
8. Develop budget and internal audit                        3rd Quarter, 1996
training modules and train relevant Central                  (continuous)
Government staff;
3



Schedule I (b)
9. Train staff and execute pilot project in                   2nd Quarter, 1997
unit costing and managerial accounting;                        (continuous)
10. Implement new budget process, with emphasis on            3rd Quarter, 1997
results, as part of 1998 Budget Submission;
11. Introduce medium term expenditure planning                3rd Quarter, 1998
in 1999 Budget Submission;
Part D: Information Technology:
1. Complete the information system design                      4th Quarter, 1995
for the Integrated Financial Management
System (SIGFA) and Civil Service (SISEC)
at both the central and local level;
2. Commence bidding process for                                2nd Quarter, 1996
hardware, software, and communications
equipment (initial package) for SIGFA and SISEC;
3. Install SIGFA (Central) and SISEC (Central)                 4th Quarter, 1996
and complete staff training in Ministry
of Finance;
4. Install SIGFA (Local) and SISEC (Local)                     4th Quarter, 1996
and complete staff training in
five (5) Eligible Institutions;
5. Amplify SIGFA (Local) and SISEC (local)                     4th Quarter, 1997
in initial 5 Eligible Institutions
and install systems and train staff in five (5) additional
Eligible Institutions;
Part E: Project Management:
1. Initiate quarterly CERAP meetings;                     2nd Quarter, 1995
(continuous, quarterly)
2. Prepare terms of reference for                          2nd Quarter, 1995
CERAP working commissions and                              (continuous)
commissions commence operation;
4



Schedule I (b)
3. Establish a donor advisory                              2nd Quarter, 1995
group on public sector                                     (continuous, quarterly)
modernization and meet quarterly;
4. Establish a private sector                             2nd Quarter, 1995
advisory group on public                                  (continuous, quarterly)
sector modernization and meet quarterly;
5. Install and operate a project accounting               3rd Quarter, 1995
system and complete staff training;
6. CERAP approves first operating                          3rd Quarter, 1995
plan under Section 3.03 (b) of DCA                         (due 3rd quarter all
and forwards to IDA for approval;                          project years)
7 Commence operation of four (4)                           4th Quarter, 1995
consulting firms to assist in
implementation of Parts A, B, C and
D of Project;
8. Complete annual project audit and                       2nd Quarter, 1996
submit to IDA;                                             (due end 2nd Quarter
all project years)
9. Publish annual report to disseminate                     Ist Quarter, 1996
information on the programs to be                           (due 1st quarter
carried out under Parts A, B, C, and D                      all project years)
of the project;
5



Schedule 2
Training Plan and Budget
Nicaragua Institutional Development Credit
Introduction
I .    Training would constitute an important part of the Government's Public Sector
Modernization Program. Training of public sector managers, technicians and
administrative personnel would serve both as an important vehicle for modernizing public
sector institutions and as a key incentive for public servants to improve their own skills
and collectively the performance of their respective institutions. Accordingly, the
proposed Institutional Development project would support a significant, but focused,
training effort.
The Training Concept
2.    Training proposed under the project would be tightly focused on developing and
reinforcing the critical skills required of civil servants to effectively support and carry out
the public sector modernization program envisaged under the project. Accordingly,
training has been structured around three core modules: management and personnel
administration, financial management, and information system technology. Each of these
modules was respectively prepared by the consultants who were retained by IDA to
develop the Civil Service Reform, Financial Management, and Information Technology
components of the project. Development of course material and initial delivery of training
would constitute an important task of each of the long term residential advisory teams
proposed to be retained under the project.
3.    Training opportunities would constitute one of the more important incentives
offered by CERAP to each institution entering the modernization program and, as such,
would form an important part of each negotiated Institutional Restructuring Agreement
(IRA). The scope and pace of the training program would, therefore, be integrally tied to
the underlying institutional restructuring program and process which envisions
approximately five ministries/institutions joining the program annually. A significant cross
section of senior and mid-level management as well as technical and administrative staff
from each participating IRA institution would be provided the opoortunity of participating
in a range of on-the-job training (OJT) or short courses over the two or three years the
IRA remains in force for each participating institution. As noted, each of the proposed
training modules, with the exception of the management training module, has been
designed to provide the operational skills necessary to implement the new systems (i.e.
1



personnel administration, financial management, and information system technology) that
would be installed in each participating IRA institution during the course of program
execution. The attached tables present the different training modules that would be
further developed, tested, and implemented under the project. Over the five year life-of-
project approximately 8,000 participant training rounds involving 20 participating IRA
institutions would have been conducted.
Training Program Management and Implementation
4.    While the development of course content and initial delivery would be the
responsibility of each of the four institutional contractors, the overall administration and
associated financial management of the training program would be the responsibility of the
Nicaraguan Institute for Public Administration (INAP). During project preparation, the
Government indicated its desire for INAP to assume the lead role in coordinating and
managing public sector human resources development with UNDP providing technical
assistance to INAP and channeling donor funds. This arrangement represents a logical
division of responsibilities between IDA and the UNDP and is the central mandate of
[NAP. The UNDP has supported the institutional development of INAP for the past
several years and will continue its capacity building support. This proposed arrangement
would provide assurance that the large and complex task associated with the logistical
arrangements, administration and financing of hundreds of participants annually would be
adequately addressed under the program. Accordingly, prior to negotiations, IDA, the
UNDP and INAP would develop an inter-institutional agreement which would spell out
this cooperative arrangement consistent with IDA/UNDP policy and guidelines.' During
appraisal, these arrangements were confirmed and further developed with the UNDP,
[NAP, and UCRESEP. An Aide Memoire, dated 01.25.95, was developed and signed by
the respective institutions and is available in the project file.
5.    It is expected that after the courses have been developed and pilot tested by the
respective residential advisory teams, INAP would competitively contract out to local and
regional providers (e.g. universities, consultant firms, regional institutions and NGOs) the
various training modules to ensure broad program coverage and to develop permanent
training capacity both in Nicaragua and the Central American region.
Estimate Training Program Cost
6.    Over the five year project life approximately 8,000 participant training rounds
would have been conducted involving more than 20 different courses to be developed and
executed under the program. The cost of the training activity, which would be financed by
IDA, is estimated at $2.0 million, representing an average participant per course cost of
$250. The sustainability of this important capacity building initiative will depend heavily
on the Government's ability to find and alternative source of financing once the IDA
"Standard Annex to be Used in all UNDP Project Documents Which are Nationally Executed and are
Partially or Totally Funded by Government Cost-Sharing Resources Originating in World Bank
Loans, or Technical Cooperation Grants Administered by the World Bank"; 11/21/1994.
2



resources have been disbursed. One such source is the 2% government payroll tax
presently channeled entirely to the Nicaraguan Technical Training Institute (INATEC) for
vocational training. During project negotiations, IDA will seek agreement with the
Government to apply a portion of these or other sources to maintain the curriculum
developed under the proposed project.
3



-rx                                 YmI                                  Y_l    ..   Y_3                                                         Yvow                                      Y_ WS                    TOTAL
9         'CI7    Cod    Am         Q111          cod    Am    Q.ArY   Co                        A~    Qs-ml    con    AMd   Q                                 -c   _ -
L Ca4 gob  ac5.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                          071.871
A. £z.uwdw D..         (M ~   Gm                                                                                                                                                                                                          1400,60
Dim A Dm) I I dr  6  &kx '
C.mrse Dd.pn4                                   4      S1.000      S4.000           3       $1.000      $3,000           I      3.00 S      1.000            II      S1,500    S12.00             I        1.000      s1.000                S37.0
o di..*(3            * l6 dy¶ es)             72        ntt       z21,600          90        3300     s27,000          144       1300      543.200         144        s300      343.200         144        s300      S43.200              S573.20
POici_px Mmiah (20 p-    s) 30                           SOS        1.200         loo        s3I5      s1,30          160        s1         12,400         160         Sl3       S2.400         160         113       32,400                ".90
PuOk4p.. Pw Din                             1440         SOS      n21.600        1620        sII      324.300        2st0          $13     S43.200        2s20         S1       S414,200       2310        s3s       S43,200              3175.500
* T-'g * f TvA..( rNAP,( '                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S42J7S
4 Sc14 MU         HR. Pmmu,d) 3 dys_
C . D13 .                                      2       s 1.000     S2.000           2       11.000      s.to0            2      S1.000      So,0             2       S11,00      12o000           2       Sl.00        13,00                S 11.000
h~i.n(I uw   x I 5 dy.)                        10    5 300         S3.00no         10        s300   I3.000              1 0       1300   53000               10        3300      13.000          0o        1300       S3.000                S15.001
Ptxfipu6 M  . ai(2 5 p. )                      0          315       s7in           30          SOS       1750           30 xSs                1750          50          115        37s0          50         115         3730                 S3,750
Pici    Per PDiv                              10          s31      33.730         250         s15       S3,730         123         Ss       S1.975          125         SOS      SL.IM          123        s1s        SI.F75                113.125
TO&Ne Pwfmm  - &Moed    of ne
CS3R A H Tadq.sa) 5 & Toual es
Coummo Dewlepnnu                                4      13,00       14.00            3       11.00       13.00           II      11600       1iS11.000 a13.000 3ttoI                                       11.0       1112,00               S327.0
hulimm( I immien :3 days)                     20       1s0         53,000          23        1300       17.00           40       S130      S12,000          40        s300       s132000         40       s130       $12.000                 WS3W0
Pcjp6 Mxibh (X   PMi  mmqy)                  200         sOS        3,0000        230         SO3       33.750        400         S1S       16.000         400            5      S6.000         40          13       S16.000               124.730
D. A u           sxlr u  drppwt Uff                                                                                                                                                                                                       1041.303
CuD_s w S1wie Cm ) 3 dy.
Cer.smmm Ducd.pawu6                            4       Slim0       14.000           S       S1.0.000  S3000              I      13.00       13.00            I       11,0m                        II00    11.000      11.000               133.00
~udi_ .(I _md     3 days)                      12       300        S3,600          Is        1300       S4.300         24         10        17.200          24           0       17.20           24        1300       57.200               S2.700
Pmikip_   Massmi., (40 p                                 SO) S60  13  S2.400      200         S13       13.000        320          SlS      S4.300         320          Sl1      S4ku0l         320        S13        S4.30t0              119.300
P .dpin Pw                                   48          S3S       S77.200 100               3S3        19.000        9"0         S1s      S14.400         9"0          135     S14.400         940         SiS      S14.400               1 400



ii  II fi 1101r   if 1       11
- - 8 - __      8 -    _ -  _  ____-       _ 1        _ _<
-llo" -ool o -     _       - ---    .__ _  _ _  _-     ____ _
_*o8lz   louI o-  --L__   _                 _ 
-jal -_oo   _-1  8 - -_   1 _ _ _ _  _ _    8    .  li:
Xl¢:2jogl~  -!2J  -8   _    - _  - _   _  _-4 ° 
Xll|~_                _L                              i   j b



.   Imp                   _ml                                               Y1~                                  Y 3 I                                 Y_4r                                                                TOTAL
Q--aq    C_4                         Q41    C_.                 NMW Q-t    C_.    A-_                              -a          C_    A_-                              C_Mu
C TA6- T r_dg (.b-                                                                                                                                                                     _                                                             Ix5
S       Tpp    n               t T4.dg 
CCWY lSveq                                      S4 I,D000             14,000           5       11,000      55.000            6        1.000      16.000           6       11.000      S6.000            6       1.000       16,000                S1,
h.(.cti~(I aaet x I0 dy.)                       40         P300      S11.000          50         S300      115,000          60        1300      S1t,000           70        D300      S21,000           60        1300      SIlt000                S-4,000
r          M.L-t.l (I 5 p..c,p".)               60          S15       S2 100          7'          535      S'.625           901        135       3.150           90         135       D3,150          90          S3 S      91,150                S14,175
1iop.P Fs D.                                   600          S15       S9.000         750         SI       SI 11.250        900         S15 I     13,500         ON           Mi       S 113.500       900          SI       S 513.500              560,750
D. StAF Tbh. (l U              MIFON                                                                                                                                                                   .                                           I &4
M    i.   - U  sdSLAF Mo.&l)
C-  D-I°P-                                       4       Sl .000      S4.000                   Sl 000  00   S00o-            a        l ,000     SJ.000                   Sl ,1000      MOM03            I      n ooo       S 16.000               SA 1,000
k.bdi- (I mo-t.x 5dy.)                          20         1300       16.000          25        1300       17.200           40        1300      S112,000          40        1300      SI12,000         40         1300      11It000                 4950
P-.Iip.d tMaia(b (I 5 p.  opN )                 60          325       s1.500          75         125       S,ns75          120         125       13.000          120         $2 I      53.000          120          15       D3,000                Sl 2.375
Pucips 6P     D4n                              300          515       S4,500         375          SiI      55.625          600         Si1        19.000         600         115       19.000          600         S15       19,000                S37.125
L OmI  S.pp.l (Svpd Pnl.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S43.500
MIFIN A M      ris.s  - PC & Sodwe Ph d
C ncD        lq~                                 2       S1.000       $ooo 002                 S1,OO       S2,000            2       11.000 Sl.000                 2       s1,00o0     $2,000            2      S2,000       S4.000                112,000
lb.ai- (I lbd.    x 5 d.)                      I10    n 300           13,000     S     I        $300       13.000           I         1300        13.000          10        1300       S3,.00          10         1300       13.000        n o   15.000
p".P.o % M.  .ol6 (IO P10 r p.,)                1o s30                $1.200          60         S30       S 1200           60         130 n      1o 100          60         S30       S 1,g00         60          130       s1,20                  s9,000
P uidp.d Pe D,                                 100           5        11.200         100         S15        1.500          100         S1        S1l.500         100         S15       S1,500          100         Sl     Sl.500                    57,300
SUB rOTAStBY YE.AR                             320         1267     £05.400          300         "If    0134.675           390        S259   J212.95e            516        £306    D15.#50            Sig        1304 SL549OJ
m. rflANCIAL MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S1441.750
DUDCEING
A. D.Wgf4(        .    (MUOnN &Ss9.112
M ri     - 3 x 2 day C,X - 6 day. -
Evad.-m  V..w, Fa)
Coanlq.nn-k                                      4       S10011       S4.000           2       S1.000      14,000            I       S1.000    1S4.000                   1             S1.000  14.000    I                   T 4.000               120,000
1. bwat(I  udwo  x 6 dys)                       24         S300       17.200          12        $300       S13.600           6        1300       S1.,00            6        1300       S 1,l00          6          300       sI.tO0                S 116.200
PuIikip.n M4iai.I (25 p.nic.pa1.)              100          Sly5      S1,5DO          50         S15        5750           2 5          S1        S375           2 5        11          s375          25          S15         1375                 S3.75
P.tlip..Po'Dian.                               600          $151      19.000         3001         s1l      34.500          ISO1        III 1       2.2 50        ISO         115       32.250          ISO         $15       $2,250                1720.250
B. Uft C_ & ptFf.. M-m                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAN
(MIFSN. NFE &a M1i.  OJT A 2 d.y



.  _9d                                      _r I                                Yw I                    'w 3                                                 Yw 4                                        y'w YO_5AL
Q_ _.             C                                  C_d  AM_   Q_                          Cad AS    Q-a7   Ca"  Am.&                                                   coo  AmmS_
Cm. - 3  n  CajAcca.    . LU,d
Cmf for Loadn Oa."mm
Cg    D rl_                                       4       S1.0Doo      s4000            2       SLOW         32o00             I       SI,oCO       sl.00                    SI,00        31.000            I       sLmOW       s3,s                    "Ose,
IOdioa(I               dy.)                      II       £S00         32.400           4         DW0         1.00             3          30         10    Doo 1                3S300                                              S900 s1ea  o          tice
P.aipq    M-di (2 1pav, _ oa )                  100          Sl       Sil,00           30          SlI         17n0           23          Sl         £371           2S          SIs         £371           23          Sils       £7                    D.371S
Ptip.a7fDift_                                  300           I1      S14500           Iso          Sl3       S3,210           71          S13       S11123          71          SI        S 11.25          75           II 15 11.12                    S10.123
NIlE, U_i   a _I     Sl.   )o
r   1 )                                                                                                                                                  _             _.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&  f
Co     bnro..a                                    2       51.000      S2.000             I      S1.000      Sl.000            I       s1.000       s1.000            I      SLOW o1n000                    I       S1,000       s1.000 I2.000
baft...ct(I     1 . 1mr..: a  dy.)               10        S300       S3,000            S         £300       31.10             5         S300        1.100           1         £30 s 0    S11.100           s         £300       S1.500                312.300
P..bcpad M        1dnal _( P -1bp.o)             40          SlS        S600           20          Sl          1300           20          lis         £300          20         sII          1300           20          II5        S300                   S1.t00
Pt1,dpom?~~a Dimtoo                                          £12 I1.O00 s0                         £11         1750           10          IM          1710          so          III         S750           10          II          $750                 11.510
D. PoW - A.d (AG   AF, Ase".                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S40.000
MIFrN. CC BA  -
Co.o,. D"A.PIown                                  4       Sl,KO        14.000            4        1,e000     S4,000            2       S1.000       320               I       S1.000 ,S,000                  I      SL.oo        31,000                 s12.000
d  t(I            1   y dy)                      20        £300        S6,000          20         1300    s6.000               1         S300       S3.000            5        S3K00       S 1.00     .               3300       s1I00          s11.000
Ptcpa M-o..         (Ut.c. t)                    40          Sl5        1600           40          SI5         1600           20o         IIs         S300      I    10s 1                  sIso           Io0           I s1s0o                         31300
P.66p.d p        Di.a.                          200          sI s      3.000          200          S1l S      3,000          100          SlI s      1.500           so          siI sso0                  s0          s           1s n7so                9.000
L  DN ota.11   P1_ M.am"d                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174.000
(t,F 14. Mimu n  04   A LoAW1    -
.,S$Rq-i. Slki-y Sy>)
Coon. DniIo     g                                 4        1,000      S14.000            4       S1.000      S4.000            4       S1.000       S4,000            4       S 1,000      S4.000            4       S1.000 I4.000                      S20,000
l.oastio (I .ad. 4 dyu)                          16         £300       S4.000           14        1300       34.100            1         32                          16         £300       S4.800           16        £30         14.00                 S24.000
Pp, p   mala.ls (26 pw.p..B)                     S0          I         SI              so.2on  l0  1I5        1,200           *0 l5 St               1.200           to          S1 I       1,1200         10          SII S       1.200                 56,000
rP.Aip.t ?rDon,-                                520                    14.30          120          SIO       S4.00           320          III       S4.100         320          515        S4,100         120          SIS       54,0S                S14,000



_   3,p~                                 Y~rI YI                                                                        _ Yr3 Y* Yw                                                                                           TOTAL
.  O_iy    C_d    A_4   (.OoIA -                               A4             tdy    C_4    A_.-   Q-0                         C_d            Q_ MY (                           A..--
F  F.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k1 £ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                1~~~~~~34,73
Nn7E & M*c, E-               A,.Io
Pn1 A Ppm.  R.     Ellnuc
RTw, CnnU)
Co,         q DSlp00t                            4       3.00        $4000             4      SLOW e        4.000                   S 1.000      S1.000                   S 10.000                 _ 1.000  I   si.0o        SL.000                SI 11000
1,     I uao    I    4 d3 16                              S300   S 4.300              36        1300   S 4.100               4        1300   n    1.200            4        1300  S1.200                 4        S300       S1.200                S 13200
P t vsd M.lm6 (I             t 5               vvs        l . . .....               .......) 60  1.  S0900  60  13I5  1900  IS l        15         1221          35          S13 I       S125           35         1II        S225                  12.475
p.t.-,P.2 Pc D-                                240         S15       13,600         240          S15       13.600         60          S15         M900          60          SIS         S900          60          S15        S900                  S9 900
C. J dgo, AdfI   (MIFVN. NFPE. AGh&                                                                                                                                                                                                                19oo
INIFOM - 3 x 2 dy C- - 6 day..
0-b A Oobj         A."  Bodgt.3
Cow.  D-Jlop-SA                                  4         O1.000    14,000            4       13.000      04.000            4                   S14000  S4.000    4       1.000       14.000            4      S I.L,       S4.000                S20.000
i-&-I( (I -owo  . 6 d.y)                        24        1300       17.200           24        S300       S7.200           24        1300       S7.200           24        1300       17.700           24        no00       S7,200                D76000
Pwi6p.m   M      -                              t0 PSI               S1.200           10         SI5       S1l200          M0           SO       S1.200           t0         S135      S1200             o         S135       1.200                 S6.000
-tKiPaV    P.r D3                              410         S15 I      7.200          400         Sls       £7,200          410         S15       S7.200         .30          1II       17.200         4t0          S15       17200                 16.000
It  PA, a ?.7Ymw  (MIFIN A                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS7J100
Mowti. - 2 dar OT)
C.um. DIpK.opm.r,                                4       S3 0000     S4l000            I                                               01.000  S1.000  I  1.000  13.000  I  13000                                            S 0000  It. 1000   13000  11.00
tmv (ion  (I  m,.fl.  2 dpy.x O p-t)           80        1300      524.000           20        S300       S6.000           20        n300       S6.000          20         1300       56.000           20         30o       S6 000                S4t 000
r"P.m M1m3.I, (I1O P." i,np )                   40         SI S        S600           20         III         1300           20         SIS         1300           20         II,         1300           20          15         1300 Io.,00
r dU."  P. D-cn0                                            15           SO            0         S13           S0            0          135          so            0         S15           SO            0 13                  SO                      SO
L Mffdib1nC Tr-ak.-(MlFIN &                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S12.500
INIFOM - F-.I R.Pqm C.p44
Cm.e. D.mlop.-                                   I      S1000        S1,000            I      S1.000       S1.000            I      S1.000       S1.000            I      SO.0         S 13.000         I       S1,O000       1,000                 13,000
bvwu,.io (I 0000d00  2  d.),)                    2        S3IM         1600            2        1300        1600            2         1300        16001           2         1300        SW0             2        1300         SW0                   15.000
pwticipa Mum.h (20 Po.pa6t.)                    20         Sl35        1300          20          Sl5        S300           20          SI5        1300           20          $13        1300           20          s15       1noo                   S1.500
Pmtip.d P,oD-                                   40         S15        S600           40         S05         S600           40          SIS        S600           40           1I5       S600           40          S15        S600                  S3.000
SuB Trors t7r YEVtAR                           560        J241    3134.00           420         J225      Jr314           .005        5229      569,700         295         5225      S64500J 295                 02        560



_n~                       Y_I                        Y                          Y_ 1  .                    Y                         . Y_W Ya  YOTAw
TOTAL  Q~ty    C_d    A_   Q~7  C C_IfI Qs- guy    Cad    A_1-Ij1-1    *j        9       .  ,fIIw C_               _              _
TOTAL
* §A tIfDP A' '':.6-d * 0,4....                                                                                                                                           S.__  _
rIL D TUlAL._ 



ATDE MEMOIRE
Representatives of INAP, CERAP/UCRESEP, UNDP, and IDA represented respectively by Mr.
Alfrcdo Solorzano, Mr. Luis ViWalta, Mr. James Rawley al Mr. Ronald Myers met on 26-27 January, 1995
to develop an understanding of: the Government's public sector management training objectives and p1ms;
the respective plas of ULNDP and IDA for supporting the Government in the attainment of its truining
objectives; and proposed cooperative working relationships for implamcnting traIning assistance suppont to
rNAP on the part of IJNDP aud IDA. The following paagraphs record the
understandings reached on each of these themes during the mecEings:
1. The Government's Public Sector Managcment Training Objectivesand Plan:
** The Government is committed to the reinvigoration of the public sector through a progm of
public sector reform and human resource development To this cnd, the Govertlment has recently initiated a
comprehensive public sector management TeforTn program through the issuancc of Presidential Decree 44-94;
11 The Government has assigncd INAP tie principal responsibility for developing the
manasement and technical skills ofthe Niaraguan civil service;
f lNAP intends to fulill ls objective over thc medium term (i.e. 10 ye.r) through:
- The development of a trminal degree program in public administration leading to a
Maser's Deore in Public Adminlstion to be confcrred by INAP and the National
Univerity;
- The execution of in service short courses in a number of relevant subject areas for a
large cross section of the Nicarguan civil service.
To ensure a consistent and adequate flow of resources to cover a significant portion of the recurrent
costs associated with thesc programs rbe Government intends to asip to INAP a portion of the tax revenues
currently assigned to INATEC.
2. UNDP Support for Public Sector Management Training: The UNDP has bcen requested by the
Govcrmnent to continuc its support and serve as the lead donor institution for training in support of the
Government's Public Sector Modernizatlon Progm. The MNDP has accepLed this responsibility and
developed a multi-donor proposal which will shortly be sent to UNDP Headquartrs for approval. The
project would provide support for the Instinttional strengthening of INAP, assist TNAP in the development
of an Applied Master's Program in Public Adminisaion and provide for UNDP oversight of the S2.0
million in-service training program to be financed through the LDA Institutional Development Credit. The
UJNDP would commit S500,000 of its own resources and assist the Government in the mobilization from
other donors of an additional S4A milon. Total project cost would be S6.9 million including the proposed
IDA contribution of 2.o million. Thc UNDP confirmed its willingness to administcr training funds to be
made available under tie proposed IDA  stitutional Development Credit (see below).
3. MDA Institutional Development Credit: Under the proposed InstirUtional Development Credit (IDC)
IDA would make availabic up to S2.0 Eillion to support the Government's in-service training requirements
as.ociated with Ihe implementation of the Public Sector Modcrnization Nlrogram. The in- service traiing
progrdm would bc under ibe joint leadership and management oversight of CERAP/UCRESEP, INAP and
UN'DP and would centcr on the development and repeatcd imnplementation of a series of training programs.



Ihe proposed in-service training programs would be concentrted in the following areas: public sector
management; financial management; personnel adminilstaion and management and information technology.
The proposed in-servicc taining programs would be developed jointly by the technical assislancc contactors
assigned to the respective comrponents of the reform program financed by the DC and INAP. In service
taining would be dirceted to the civil servants in those instirtions with active Insfitutional Restructuring
Agreements (AREs). As trainin.- modulcs are developed the respective technical assistance conaactors and
£NAP would pilot test and refne ehe modules prior to the routine aad repeated implementation of the
modules. Aftcr this initial pilot phase, INAP, in close coordination with CERAPIUCRESEP, w4. aid assumc
fillI responsibility for the implementation of subsequenL traunig cycles The technLical assistance contractor
would continue to be available, as appropiate, to provide raining and ensure conformny of the training
pro;rams with the ongoing and evolving work in participating IRA institutions. Given INAP's iotention to
remain a small institutlon with no more than 23 profcssional staff and in line with the broader Government
policy which emphasizes the private provision of public services, whenever possible, INAP would contract
with individuals or firms to carry out The expanded and cyclical repetition of the respective taining modules.
The TDA Task Manager recommended that the scope and level of effort of each traming module be carefully
analyized by INAP and whcu training modules involved a signUiicant number of participants and/or multiple
course replications consideration be given to contractig firms instiead of individuals to lesson the
management burden on INAP staff. To encourage the development of in-country trining capacity preferencc
would also be accorded to the selection of Nicaraguan finms and individuals or joint ventures involving
Nicaraguan firss or lnsbtutions. UCRESEP/ANAP and IDA would undertake an evaluation of the in-service
training program after the second year and make adjustments as necessary.
4. Understandings Reached: The rollowlng understandings were agreed to among the parties.
INAP and UCRESEP: NP will undertake a technical skills assessment and needs analysis of the
initial four instlittions prcsently developing nsitutional Restructuring Agrcements (ARIs). INAP wil work
closely with UCRESEP and the Coopers & Lybrand consultants in this re-ard. INAP and UCRESEP will
make The appropriatc representations to secure the asignment to NAP of a portion of the tx revenue
currently assigned to TNATEC. UCRSEP will prepare the Tams of Referencc for and undertake to coract a
Training Consultant;
UNDP: The UNDP agrees in principle, subject to Headquarters conflrmation as rnay be appropriate,
to assume thc rollowing responsibilities on behalf of IDA with respect to the management oversight of the
resources to be assigned to INAP for the purpose of implementing an in service raining program:
go Support INAP in the development and review of annual training and associated financial
plans;
- Support INAP in the review and finaliduon of specific in servic trning proposals and
associated Tcrms of Reference;
'  Support NAP in the developmcnt of training proposal solicitation documents consistent
with World Bank guidclines;
** Support NAP in the development and applcation of taining proposal evaluation and
contractor selection procedurm consistent with applicable World Bank guidelines;
** Support INAP in thc development and execution of training contracts consistent with applicable
World Bank guidelines;
*  Support INAP in the development of generally acceptable accounting standards and proccdures
for the proper management aDd accounting of financial resources provided under the   instiutional
Development Credit (DC) in support of in-servicc training under INAP's Programa    Integral de
Capacitacion dcl Sector Publico;



** Support lNAP in the definiton and execution of annual performance and financial audits of
the Programa Integral de Capacimacion del Sectaor Publico;
40 Support INAP in the preparation, as appropriae of relevant documentation requreod by TDA
for the issuance of Letters of No-Objection and disbursement of funds.
To cany oat these responsibilities, as well as die broader responsibilies of its own support to INAP,
the UNDP will provide professional admlnlsutive and flnancial staff support as appropriate.
IDA: Upon recommendation of the Govemmentr IDA wlll assign betwe three and five percent
of the funds acually committed to JNAP for n-service taining under the IDC to help defray the UNDP
overhead cost associated with the technical and adminisUanve support described in pargaph 4.
CERAP/UCRESEP and the IJNDP will cstablished the specific cost sharing formula and advise the IDA no
later than 15 February, 1995.
Conclusion: All pares agreed to updacj/modiry their respective project documentaion to reflect these
understandings as well as complete their rcspeciive internal approval processes as rpidly as possible.
4Mr. Ronald Mycr
nep RcsL Rep.                                 World Bank/IDA
UNDP/Nicar2gua



