Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2690-NI
                           Development Credit Agreement
                        (Institutional Development Project)
                                      between
                               REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               Dated March 17, 1995
                                                        CREDIT NUMBER 2690-NI
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)    by agreement dated September 30, 1994 (the IDB Grant
Agreement), the Inter American Development Bank has agreed to
make a grant (the IDB Grant) to the Borrower in the aggregate
principal amount equivalent to $1,520,000 to assist in
financing Part C.4 of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in the IDB Grant Agreement;
      (C)    by agreement dated June 10, 1994, (the USAID Grant
Agreement), the United States Agency for International
Development has agreed to make a grant (the USAID Grant) to the
Borrower in the aggregate principal amount equivalent to
$4,400,000 to assist in financing Part C.3 (a) of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in the USAID Grant
Agreement; and
      (D)    the Borrower intends to contract from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) a grant in an amount of
$2,300,000 to assist in financing Part C.3 (b) of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
Page  2
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                     ARTICLE I
                          General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)    "Administrative Reform Commission" means Comision
para la Reforma Administrativa, the commission established
under CERAP (as defined below) pursuant to Article 9 (f) of
Decree 44-94 of October 28, 1994;
      (b)    "CERAP" means Comite Ejecutivo para la Reforma de la
Administracion Publica, the Borrower's committee established
pursuant to Decree 44-94 of October 28, 1994 under the
chairmanship of the Borrower's minister of the presidency and
comprised of the ministers of finance, construction and
transport, economic development, government, social action, and
the vice-ministers of the presidency for the purposes of
implementing the Public Institutions Restructuring Program (as
defined below);
      (c)    "Civil Service Reform Program" means the program to
be carried out by the Borrower for the reform of its civil
service as described in the report entitled "Nicaragua - Civil
Service Diagnostic Review - September 1994", and furnished by
the Borrower to the Association on January 6, 1995;
      (d)    "Commissions" means the sectoral commissions
established under CERAP pursuant to Article 9 of Decree 44-94
of October 28, 1994 to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the Public Institutions Restructuring Program
in the areas of their respective responsibilities;
      (e)    "Eligible Institutions" means the Borrower's
ministries of finance, environment and natural resources,
construction and transport, and government, and the Borrower's
social security institute and such other ministry or agency of
the Borrower, acceptable to the Association, which the Borrower
has proposed to include in the Public Institutions
Restructuring Program (as defined below) and which has made an
IR Arrangement (as defined below);
      (f)    "INAP" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Administracion
Publica, the Borrower's institute for public administration
established within the ministry of finance;
      (g)    "Information Technology Program" means the program to
be carried out by the Borrower for the application of an
integrated information system by its administration as
described in the report entitled "Diagnostico y Marco
Conceptual y Plan de Accion para el Desarrollo de un Sistema
Integrado de Informacion Financiera en Nicaragua", published in
July 1994, and furnished by the Borrower to the Association on
October 17, 1994;
      (h)    "Integrated Financial Management Program" means the
Page  3
program to be carried out by the Borrower to improve the
financial management of its administration as described in the
reports entitled "Nicaragua FRMP Budget System Implementation
Plan -July 1994" and "Integrated Financial Management System -
Conceptual Framework and Action Plan - December 1994", and
furnished by the Borrower to the Association on January 6,
1995;
      (i)    "IR Arrangement" means the arrangement to be made
between CERAP and an Eligible Institution pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (j)    "Public Institutions Restructuring Program" means the
program to be carried out by the Borrower for the restructuring
of ministries and public agencies as described in the report
entitled "Institutional Diagnostic and Restructuring Study,
Final Report, November 1994", and furnished by the Borrower to
the Association on January 6, 1995;
      (k)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)    "UCRESEP" means the project coordinating unit
established pursuant to Decree No. 44 of October 28, 1994 for
the coordination and supervision of the Project.
                                    ARTICLE II
                                    The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
Page  4
      (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September
15 commencing September 15, 2005 and ending March 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE III
                             Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project,
through CERAP and the Ministry of Finance, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public management practices and
Page  5
the IR Arrangements, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      (b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall substantially achieve
or cause to be substantially achieved, in a manner acceptable
to the Association, the Project implementation targets set
forth in the attachment to a letter of even date herewith
furnished by the Borrower to the Association.
      (c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through CERAP: (i)
make arrangements with INAP, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall
include, inter alia, the terms of INAP's assistance in the
implementation of the training referred to in Parts A.2, B.2,
C.2 and D.2 of the Project; and (ii) not amend or fail to apply
such arrangement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)    not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year
until completion of the Project, furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association,  a report containing, inter alia,
information on: (i) the Project activities carried out during
the six-month period preceding the date of each such report;
and (ii) the expenditures made in respect of such activities;
      (b)    not later than November 30 of each year until the
completion of the Project, furnish to the Association for its
approval: (i) operating plans for each part of the Project to
be carried out during the following calendar year; and (ii) the
Eligible Institutions proposed for participation in the Public
Institutions Restructuring Program and the corresponding draft
IR Arrangement;
      (c)    not later than March 30 of each year until the
completion of the Project, review with the Association its
progress in the implementation of the Project;  and
      (d)    as part of the annual review referred to in paragraph
(c) above, to be held not later than March 30, 1997, review
with the Association, in addition to the matters referred to in
paragraph (c) hereof: (i) the overall institutional capacity of
the Borrower for implementing all parts of the Project in a
coherent and integrated manner; and (ii) the feasibility of
further expanding the implementation of the Public Institutions
Restructuring Program to new Eligible Institutions and the
advisability of modifying or terminating any of the then
existing IR Arrangements.
      Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, through CERAP: (a) make
operating arrangements (acuerdos) with each of the Eligible
Institutions under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall include, inter alia,
the responsibilities of the Eligible Institutions in the
implementation of the Public Institutions Restructuring
Program; and (b) not amend or fail to apply the IR
Arrangements.
      Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
      (a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                    ARTICLE IV
                                Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)    The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than four
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                    as the Association shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records,
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the
                    Association shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
      (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and separate accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                    from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                    Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
            (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
Page  7
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such
                    fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                    internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                     ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)    Decree 44-94 of October 28, 1994 or the operating
procedures referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion
of the Association, the ability of CERAP and UCRESEP to perform
their respective obligations under this Agreement;
      (b)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                    (A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                           proceeds of the IDB Grant, the USAID
                           Grant, or any grant or loan made to the
                           Borrower for the financing of the Project
                           shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                           terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                           to the terms of the agreement providing
                           therefor; or
                    (B)    any of such loans shall have become due
                           and payable prior to the agreed maturity
                           thereof.
             (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                    apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                    satisfaction of the Association that:
                    (A)    such suspension, cancellation, termination
                           or prematuring is not caused by the
                           failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                           its obligations under such agreement; and
                    (B)    adequate funds for the Project are
                           available to the Borrower from other
                           sources on terms and conditions consistent
                           with the obligations of the Borrower under
                           this Agreement.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)    the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)    the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
provision of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                    ARTICLE VI
                            Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Page  8
      (a)    CERAP has issued, and started implementation of,
operating procedures satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)    UCRESEP has been staffed to the Association's
satisfaction; and
      (c)    at least one IR Arrangement has been made between
CERAP and an Eligible Institution.
      Section 6.02. The date June 16, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE VII
                     Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
             Minister of Finance
             Ministry of Finance
             Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea
               Nacional
             Managua, Nicaragua
                                               Telex:
                                                BCR NK 2460
      For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                    Telex:
                    INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                           REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                           By /s/ Emilio Pereira Alegria
                                                     Authorized Representative
                           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                           ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                           By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                        Regional Vice President
                                                Latin America and the Caribbean
                                    SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of the
                                  Credit Allocated          % of
                                   (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                           SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                10,940,000             100%
    Services (other than
    for Parts C.3 and C.4
    of the Project)
(2) Goods                        1,700,000             100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures,
                                                       100% of local
                                                       expenditures
                                                       (ex-factory
                                                       cost) and 85%
                                                       of local
                                                       expenditures for
                                                       other items
                                                       procured locally
(3) Training                      1,700,000            100%
(4) Unallocated                   1,360,000
                                 __________
         TOTAL                   15,700,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Training" includes the cost of trainees' per
diem for the training referred to in Parts A.1 (d), B.1 (h),
C.1 (b) and D.1 (b) of the Project, and the cost of trainers'
fees, trainees' per diem, materials development and other
related costs for the training referred to in Parts A.2, B.2,
C.2 and D.2 of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR 1,360,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after January 30,
Page  10
1995; and
    (b)   payments made for expenditures under Category (3) of
the table in paragraph 1 hereof in respect of the training to
be carried out by INAP, unless the arrangement referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement has been made between CERAP
and INAP.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures: (a) for goods in respect of which the
procedures of prior review set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement will not be required in accordance with the
provisions of Section I, Part D, paragraph 1 (a) of such
Schedule; and (b) for consultants services in respect of which
prior review will not be required pursuant to the provisions of
Section II, paragraph 2 of such Schedule under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                    SCHEDULE 2
                            Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
delivery of services by Eligible Institutions; and (b) to
increase public savings.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Public Institutions Restructuring Program
1.  Technical assistance:
    (a)   to support CERAP, the Administrative Reform Commission,
and the Eligible Institutions in the implementation of the
Public Institutions Restructuring Program;
    (b)   for the design of the applicable action plans for
prospective Eligible Institutions which are interested in
participating in the Public Institutions Restructuring Program;
    (c)   for the implementation of service delivery surveys of
the Eligible Institutions;
    (d)   for the design and delivery, on a pilot basis, of
training programs for managers, technicians and administrative
personnel of Eligible Institutions as required under the Public
Institutions Restructuring Program; and
    (e)   for the strengthening of CERAP's and UCRESEP's capacity
for effectively managing and coordinating the implementation of
all parts of the Project.
2.  Training of managers, technicians and administrative
personnel of Eligible Institutions, based on the results of the
training referred to in 1 (d) above, as further required under
the Public Institutions Restructuring Program.
Part B:   Civil Service Reform Program
1.  Technical assistance for:
    (a)   the design and implementation of a merit-based civil
service system;
    (b)   the preparation of a civil service code and the
regulations thereof  covering, inter alia, grievance
procedures, performance evaluations and other aspects of
Page  11
personnel administration;
    (c)   the development and operation of a job classification
system for the Borrower's public administration, and a
computerized personnel data base therefor;
    (d)   the development of a service-wide, incentive-based
salary structure and schedule which could be updated through
surveys of the labor market wages;
    (e)   the identification and implementation of the staff
reductions required from Eligible Institutions under the Public
Institutions Restructuring Program;
    (f)   the development and application of merit-based
selection criteria for the recruitment of staff;
    (g)   the strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to manage
the Civil Service Reform Program;
    (h)   the design and delivery, on a pilot basis, of training
programs for managers, technicians and administrative personnel
of Eligible Institutions in the implementation of the Civil
Service Reform Program; and
    (i)   the coordination of the training activities to be
carried out under Parts C and D of the Project.
2.  Training of managers, technicians and administrative
personnel of Eligible Institutions, based on the results of the
training referred to in 1 (h) above, as further required for
the implementation of the Civil Service Reform Program.
Part C:  Integrated Financial Management
1.  Technical assistance for:
    (a)   the development and implementation of budget
formulation, programming and evaluation processes of the
Borrower's ministry of finance and other Eligible Institutions
including, inter alia, the development of policies and
procedures for internal audit and control; and
    (b)   the design and delivery, on a pilot basis, of training
programs for managers, technicians and administrative personnel
of the Borrower's ministry of finance and other Eligible
Institutions in the implementation of the Integrated Financial
Management Program.
2.  Training of managers, technicians and administrative
personnel of Eligible Institutions, based on the results of the
training referred to in 1 (b) above, as further required for
the implementation of the Integrated Financial Management
Program.
3.  Development of: (a) the accounting system of the Borrower's
comptroller general office and strengthening of the audit
capacity of such office; and (b) the managerial and technical
capacity of the Borrower's comptroller general's office.
4.  Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to carry out its
treasury, public credit and procurement functions.
Part D:   Information Technology
1.  Technical assistance for:
    (a)   the design and implementation of the Information
Technology Program to be carried out in the ministry of finance
and other Eligible Institutions; and
    (b)   the design and delivery, on a pilot basis, of training
Page  12
programs for managers, technicians and administrative personnel
of Eligible Institutions as required for the implementation of
the Information Technology Program, including the provision of
computer hardware and software required therefor.
2.  Training of managers, technicians and administrative
personnel of Eligible Institutions, based on the results of the
training referred to in 1 (b) above, as further required for
the implementation of the Information Technology Program.
Part E:   Project Management
1.  Technical assistance for the strengthening of the
Commissions' and UCRESEP's institutional capacity.
2.  Carrying out of surveys of the effectiveness of the Eligible
Institutions in the implementation of the Public Institutions
Restructuring Program.
                                       * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                    SCHEDULE 3
                       Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Limited International Bidding and Shopping
1.  Except as provided in paragraph A.2 hereof, goods shall be
packaged in lots estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, and shall be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof) and the
following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract.  The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension.  Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 (a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii)
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A.1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, goods
Page  13
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of:
    (a)   $100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; and
    (b)   $25,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  (a)   With respect to each contract for goods procured
pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines
requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each, after the first three of
Page  14
such contracts entered into in each calendar year have been
approved by the Association, up to an aggregate amount for the
exceptions provided for in (a) and (b) above of $1,000,000
equivalent.  However, this exception to prior Association
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                    SCHEDULE 4
                                  Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                 requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                 such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
Page  15
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                 by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
Page  16
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
