Document of                        -        Cti.y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 292 1-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
August 20, 1980
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YRI 1.00       = US$0.22
YRls 1 million = US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)                = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)           = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)         = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR     = Yemen Arab Republic
ACB     = Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF     = Agricultural Credit Fund
ARS     = Agricultural Research Service
CPO     = Central Planning Organization
CYDA    = Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
ECWA    = (United Nations) Economic Commission for West Asia
EEC     = European Economic Community
FAO/CP  = FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
GCC     = Governorates Coordinating Council
GDP     = Gross Domestic Product
GNP     = Gross National Product
ICB     = International Competitive Bidding
IDA     = International Development Association
IFAD    = International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED   = Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KFW     = Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCPP    = Livestock Credit and Processing Project
LDA     = Local Development Association
MOH     = Ministry of Health
SURDP   = Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU   = Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA     = Tihama Development Authority
UNDP    = United Nations Development Programme
VDC     = Village Development Committee
WHO     = World Health Organization
YBAEP   = Yemeni-British Agriculture Engineering Project
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ....... *     ............*..... ....  ........        ......         1
A.  Project Background .....................................                    1
B.  The Agricultural Sector . ..................... ..........                  1
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ....................... ..................                      5
A.  Location and Resources . ........ ... .    ............ .    ......         5
B.  Agriculture and Agricultural Services                  ..................   6
C.  Land Tenure and Tenancy ................................                    8
D.  Rural Infrastructure . ...................... ... .........                 8
E.  Social Characteristics and Local Institutions ...              .......      9
F.  The First Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project (SURDP I) ......................................                  10
III.  THE PROJECT ............................... ........ * ....             .       13
A.  Design Features .......  .......           .........................       13
B.  Cost and Financing Arrangements .              ........................    17
C.  Procurement and Disbursement .....              .......................    20
D.  Environmental Impact .... .......... ........ ....... ... ..*.*            21
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................. .......                   21
A.  Organization and Management ............................                   21
B.  Project Implementation ... .               ............ ... ...... .       23
C.  Operation and Maintenance                ..............................    30
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................                   30
E.  Accounts and Audits . ....... . ............ ...  .            .           31
This report reflects the findings of a mission to YAR in October 1979
consisting of Messrs. J. Kozub, R. Khouri, M. Mian, J. van der Veen
(Bank/IDA), C. Holloway and N. Khaldi (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ........................    32
A.  Land Use and Crop Production              ..            .32
B.  Livestock Production              ..             .........         36
C. Marketing and Prices               . . .37
D.  Taxes and Cost Recovery .....       .     ......38
VI.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .....39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................     .....    42
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart (Chart No. 21355)
2. Detailed Cost Estimates and Supporting Tables
3. Implementation Schedule (Chart No. 21356)
4. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD Number 14837
IBRD Number 14838
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
3.1   Project Costs
3.2   Financing Plan
5.1   Present and Projected Crop Area Under SURDP I AND SURDP II
5.2   Present and Projected Crop Yields in SURDP II Area
5.3   Estimated Increases in Crop Production in SURDP II Area
6.1   Present and Projected Farm Income Levels at Full Development
6.2   Sensitivity of Economic Rate of Return
.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01       The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to help finance a rural development
project in the southern highlands of the country. The proposed project
originated with the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP I)
(Credit 545-YAR) cofinanced with the Abu Dhabi Fund. SURDP I was the first
rural development effort in YAR. It became effective in early 1976 and it
is expected that funds will be fully committed by about June 1980. Following
a Government request, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) helped to
identify and prepare a second project that would cover almost the entire high-
lands area of Ibb and Taiz Governorates, or almost three times as large as
that of the first project. A preparation report, dated March 2, 1979, was
submitted as a basis for appraisal by the Bank mission which visited YAR in
October 1979.
1.02       The principal objective of SURDP II is to improve living conditions
of rural people and raise farm incomes in the Ibb and Taiz Governorates where
37% of the country's population lives and 36% of its cultivated land is
located. It is also the intent of the Government of YAR to use the project as
a means of firmly establishing the services of the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) in the southern highlands.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03       The characteristics and performance of the agricultural sector of
YAR were reviewed by the Bank in 1979 and a Sector Memorandum was issued
(Report No. 2582-YAR) on June 26, 1979. The report highlighted features of
the agricultural and rural development of YAR, some of which are unique to
the country:
(a) YAR is an open economy with Government intervention in rural areas
limited largely to a commitment to provide policy guidance, project
financing for infrastructure and credit in a few areas, and train
the manpower needed to serve the agricultural sector in the future;
(b) natural resources are scarce, with enough rainfall to maintain a
regularly arable area of only about 1.5 million ha out of a total
land area of 20 million ha, of which about 15% is irrigated;
(c) the virtual absence of k,asic government services in most regions,
and lack of physical infrastructure, particularly access roads;



-2-
(d) a sophisticated traditional agriculture reflecting considerable
ingenuity by rural people in mastering the environment, as evidenced
in terraces on the highlands and systems of water diversion and
irrigation; and
(e) rural unemployment has virtually disappeared and shortages of agri-
cultural labor are widespread due to the massive emigration of
Yemeni workers amounting to about 700,000 by 1979,1/ or 38% of the
labor force, to neighboring oil-producing countries.
1.04      In spite of its relative decline vis-a-vis other growing sectors
agriculture remains the most important sector of the economy. It generates
about 40% of the country's GDP, employs 65% of the resident labor force, and
accounts for more than 90% of total exports. However, due to the dynamism of
other sectors and the emigration of rural labor, agriculture is becoming less
labor-intensive than formerly; traditional crops grown for subsistence and
pastoralism are declining. During the short period of six years (1969/70-
1976/77) for which national accounts are available, the share of agriculture
fell from about 55% of total GDP to about 40%, and agricultural employment was
reduced by approximately 15%. Nevertheless, agricultural GDP at market prices
increased at an estimated average annual rate of 4.6%, which compares favor-
ably with 7.7% for the economy as a whole. During 1975/76-1978/79, however,
it appears that the growth of agricultural GDP has increased by only about 3%
per year compared with almost 10% for aggregate GDP. The growth of agricul-
tural GDP in recent years has been affected by increases in area and produc-
tion of a few crops--maize, fruits, vegetables and legumes, and declines for
traditional crops, which occupy 80% of the area planted, i.e. sorghum, millet,
wheat, barley, cotton and coffee. Poor weather conditions in 1977/78 also
adversely affected crop production. Livestock, fisheries and forestry sub-
sectors failed to keep up with crop production. Except for the promising
start made towards commercial egg and broiler production with assistance from
the US and the Netherlands, livestock production seems to have made little
progress.
Major Issues and Constraints
1.05      The most pressing problems of Yemeni agriculture are how to improve
efficiency of production sufficiently and rapidly in face of labor scarcity,
high production costs, competition from imports, the severe inadequacy of
infrastructure and agricultural institutions as well as limited natural
resources and a weak data base for planning. Two issues. of particular
concern are the growing dependence on food imports and the disincentives
caused by the pattern of land tenure and tenancy.
1.06      Almost all (90%) of YAR's exports are of agricultural origin, and
80% of its export earnings are generated by three commodities--cotton and
cottonseed, coffee and hides. Exports have declined since 1973/74 from about
YRls 62 million to about YRls 32 million in 1977/78. During the same period,
1/   World Bank estimates.



- 3 -
total imports rose five-fold from YRls 873 to 4,076 million. Imports of food
and beverages alone rose from YRls 377 million to YRls 1.1 billion from 1973/74
to 1977/78. Food imports represented 41% of total domestic food consumption
for 1977/78. Approximately 85% of the upsurge in food imports has consisted
of cereals, sugar and sugar preparations, meat, fruits and vegetables, edible
fats and oils, all of which have a relatively high income elasticity of demand
due to the low income base at this juncture of YAR's development.
1.07      Although agriculture in YAR is conducted mainly on some 800,000
small family-owned or tenant operated farms averaging approximately 2 ha in
size, the pattern of land tenure is a barrier to agricultural innovation in a
rapidly changing economy.  Tenancy, through sharecropping, is widespread, and
there is considerable concentration of ownership of cultivable land, particu-
larly in state, religious trust (i.e. waqf) and a small number of large private
properties. Aware of this problem, the Government has initiated a study of
the tenancy arrangements to recommend terms that would provide incentives to
tenants to raise productivity. The study is partly financed by IDA (Credit
805-YAR) and conducted by ECWA. Pending implementation of the recommendations
of this study, a religious edict requiring landowners to share in the costs of
production in proportion to their share in output has been issued. There are
indications, however, that terms are beginning to turn in favor of the tenant
due to both the edict and pressures stemming from the shortage and high cost
of rural labor. Initial draft of the study report has been now (August 1980)
supplied by ECWA to the Government and IDA and is under review.
1.08      As a result of the mobility given to rural labor to seek full time
or seasonal work in other sectors or abroad, the effect of land tenure on
income distribution has become less severe than it used to be. Evidence
shows that YAR does not presently need to entirely rely on its agriculture
to improve incomes of the rural poor who have become less dependent on local
landlords for their subsistence. Rural poverty persists, however, and partic-
ularly affects tenants of small plots and smallholders who lack irrigation.
In view of this and the rising food imports, alleviating rural poverty is
inseparable from the adjustments necessary to produce a larger amount and
diversity of food. Consequently, the most important task the Government
has set for itself in setting priorities and selecting projects for agricul-
tural and rural development is to ensure that equity and improvement in
the quality of life will be achieved while increasing productivity.
Government Plans and Policies
1.09      Under the First Five Year Plan for 1976/77-1980/81 the resources
allocated to agriculture were set at YRls 2.6 billion (US$587.4 million), or
14% of the total investment outlays envisaged in the Plan. About YRls 1.4
billion would be for some 60 agricultural or rural development projects in the
public sector, YRls 1.0 billion in the private and YRls 0.2 billion in both
sectors. High priority was assigned to projects for areas with the best
agricultural potential, e.g. Tihama and central and southern highlands
and to the training of manpower. Plan implementation depends on considerable
external financing in the order of YRls 1.2 billion (US$265 million) and
assistance to meet staffing needs, due to the time needed to educate and train
Yemeni technicians and administrators.



- 4 -
1.10      At the end of three years, some 43 projects had been started.  As a
whole expenditures are not far behind the targets set for the plan, but infla-
tion has increased costs and, therefore, tangible achievements are below
expectations. For some projects, costs have doubled over the original 1976-77
estimates, and the Government either allocated additional funds or scaled
down project scope. In some crucial activities, e.g. agricultural education
and agricultural credit, progress has been encouraging. About 425 Yemenis
are pursuing university degrees in agricultural sciences abroad, including 44
in veterinary medicine. The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), and formerly the
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), have established an effective system of farm
credit serving the major agricultural areas, with a high loan recovery rate.
Where large directly productive investments are being made, e.g. the Tihama
and Southern Uplands, a system of agricultural extension has begun to function
with positive results, which will expand in future years and be eventually
applied to areas of the country that are not yet served.
Previous Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.11      The Bank's role in the development of YAR's agriculture has signif-
icantly contributed to institution-building and filling the financial resource
gap. To date, IDA has committed about US$89 million to help finance seven
projects in agriculture and agro-industries, and one in fisheries is under
consideration. In addition to financial support through IDA, the Bank has
acted as executing agency for two UNDP-financed projects under which substan-
tial institutional support is given to the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 1.12).
Furthermore, in view of the increasing costs of projects and limited IDA funds
available, the Association has complemented financing from other sources,
among which the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), the Abu
Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom,
the Saudi Fund for Development and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW).
1.12      The first IDA agricultural project, the Tihama Development I (Wadi
Zabid), co-financed with the Kuwait Fund, was completed only about six months
behind schedule with IDA credits of US$10.9 million and by US$10.3 million
and loans of US$16 million from the Kuwait Fund. The second project is the
Southern Uplands Rural Development Project, financed with an IDA credit of
$10 million and co-financed with $10 million from the Abu Dhabi Fund. After
initial delays, its implementation proceeded well until recently (para. 2.22)
due mainly to staffing problems. The reallocation of project funds, increases
in government contribution and raising staff salaries are expected to resolve
outstanding problems. The third project for Grain Storage and Processing,
financed with $5.2 million from IDA and $11 million from the Saudi Fund, is
progressing well. A fourth IDA credit of $5 million, approved in 1976, for a
Livestock Credit and Processing Project (LCPP), is co-financed by the Kuwait
Fund, with $11.6 million, the Netherlands, $8.9 million, and the United
Kingdom, $2.4 million. Since overcoming start-up difficulties during the
first year, mainly due to cost overruns resulting from increased inflation
and delays, this project is now making progress. The fifth project is the
Tihama Development II (Wadi Rima I), financed by an IDA credit for $10.5
million together with loans from the EEC of $1.22 million and UNDP of $1.5



- 5 -
million and the Kuwait Fund of $12.55 million. Under this project, two
UNDP-financed projects (Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture
executed by the Bank Group and Agricultural Research Station (ARS) at Taiz),
aimed at helping the Government overcome the lack of an effective agricultural
infrastructure and the acute shortage of skilled agricultural manpower at all
levels, have been extended for five years as a combined UNDP project (Agricul-
tural Research--ARS--and Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture).
The sixth project is the Tihama Development III (Wadi Mawr), for which a
credit of $15 million was approved by IDA on March 8, 1979, cofinanced by
IFAD, $12.0 million, the Kuwait Fund, $13 million, KFW, $8 million, and the
EEC Special Action Fund, $3 million. A seventh project was approved in FY
1980 for an irrigation infrastructure and sand stabilization in Wadi Rima with
finance from IDA US$5.5 million and co-financing of US$6.2 million from the
Netherlands and another source. The eighth project, for fisheries devel-
opment, has been approved by IDA; it will require a credit of US$17 million
and co-financing by DANIDA of Danemark of US$4 million.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Resources
2.01      The southern highlands and the irrigated wadi valleys of the Tihama
have the best agricultural potential of YAR, mainly because of their more
plentiful water resources than other regions of YAR. In the southern high-
lands SURDP II would cover all of the Taiz and Ibb Governorates, except the
part of Taiz which belongs ecologically to the Tihama (IBRD Maps 14837 and
14838). The project would thus extend over a geographical area of about
500,000 ha, including the 50,000 ha covered under SURDP I in the immediate
zone of influence of the Sana'a-Taiz-Turbah highway. Topography of most of
the area is rugged, with the exception of plains and wide valleys in parts of
the Taiz Governorate and the plateau north of Ibb. Three main soil types
occur, the alluvial silt loams of wadi beds, colluvial dark grey-brown silty
clays on mountain slopes, and yellow-brown to red-brown calcareous silts of
wide valleys in the Ibb Governorate. Light silt loams are found in the high
plains area, while some wadi beds with inadequate drainage contain waterlogged
clay soils with a varying degree of salinity. Most soils have adequate mois-
ture retention capacity.
2.02      The area has a wide variety of micro-climates which fall into
three basic zones: (a) a low rainfall (less than 500 mm), relatively humid
and hot area adjacent to the coastal plains to the south and west; (b) the
cooler and well watered western and southern slopes rising to over 2,000 m
altitude; and (c) the more temperate zone of low rainfall in the eastward
sloping highlands. In normal years the major rains occur in July through
September, and minor rains from about March until May. The area in the imme-
diate vicinity of Ibb receives over 800-1,000 mm per year, while the broad
valleys of Taiz, lower valleys and slopes in the west and the plains in the



north and east receive less than 500 mm. Inter-annual variability is greatest
in the low rainfall area.  Average mean temperature at Taiz varies from 20.5 C
in January to 26.6 0C in July, with an annual mean of 24.3 0C.  Relative humidity
varies from 25 to 78%. In the highland plains, near Yarim, mean minimum winter
temperatures are frequently below freezing.
B. Agriculture and Agricultural Services
2.03      The Project area includes about 365,000 ha annual crop land of which
some 14% receives permanent or spate irrigation. About one half of the rain-
fed land is located in the high rainfall zone at high altitudes and the other
half is located in areas receiving relatively low rainfall or run-off. Millet
and sorghum are the main crops cultivated in the lower rainfall areas at lower
altitudes. Because rainfall varies widely over the years and the two major
seasons, average yields are relatively low, except in limited areas where
water-harvesting ensures higher moisture availability. Periodic droughts
cause considerable hardship.
2.04      The potential for increased production is concentrated in the
mountainous areas, at altitudes over 1,500 m, with an annual average rainfall
ranging from some 500 mm to over 1,000 mm at the highest elevations around
Ibb. Throughout the ages a system of terraces has been constructed which
provides a highly efficient system of soil and water conservation. Their
adequate upkeep is essential to preserve these two basic resources. Sorghum,
maize, pulses and at higher altitudes wheat and potatoes are the major food
crops. Only a minor part of the cereals is marketed. Crop residue (stalks,
straw, etc.) are the main source of feed for cattle and oxen. The coarser
parts of maize and sorghum stalks are used as fuel. Despite increasing labor
shortages, oxen are only partially replaced by tractors for cultivation since
a large part of the terraces and fields are too small for mechanization.
2.05      The main source of irrigation water is supplied by the perennial
base flow of the main valleys draining the mountain watersheds. Intake
structures have to be constantly repaired after floods. Springs and open
dug wells are the other sources of perennial irrigation, which, with spate
irrigation, reportedly covers some 46,000 ha. With increasing remittances
well drilling for irrigation is increasing, but well development for village
water supplies has a higher priority. Irrigation is used mainly for maize,
sorghum, qat, coffee, vegetables, potatoes and bananas.  Coffee is of diminish-
ing importance, partly due to high labor costs and low incentives for tenants.
Potato and vegetable cultivation has greatly increased in the last ten years.
Qat, a mildly narcotic plant, has increasingly become a major source of cash
income in those areas where this shrub is adapted.



-7-
Livestock
2.06      Livestock are essential for the rural economy primarily to provide
the necessary draught power (oxen) in agriculture and as a source of food,
rather than as a regular source of cash income. No official census has yet
been conducted on the livestock populations of the Ibb and Taiz provinces.
Current estimates, however, place cattle numbers at 320,000 to 433,000 and
sheep and goat numbers at 1,340,000 to 3,100,000. Most of these animals are
in small herds - commonly in teams of two work oxen, herds of three to five
cows plus two or three replacement heifers, and flocks of 5-20 sheep and/or
goats and followers. Domestically produced milk is not marketed, and the
commercial demand for meat and dairy products is generally supplied by other
parts of the country or imported from abroad.
2.07      Because of the increasing shortages of shepherds and the lack of
sufficient grazing on depleted communal pastures and crop residue, the animals'
diet is supplemented with stover of little nutritive value, particularly during
the dry winter months when plant growth is at a minimum. Under such conditions,
livestock are on a positive plane of nutrition from mid-spring to end autumn
only, and thereafter tend to lose much of the previous gains. The acute
shortages of feed from late autumn to early spring prompts farmers to rear
only those offspring needed for replacements and slaughter all others at a
very young age.
2.08      Livestock are heavily infested with internal and external parasites
and have suffered from epidemics of rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease and
sheep pox; sporadic outbreaks of anthrax, haemorrhagic septicaemia and black
quarter are claimed to have occurred. The combined effects of parasites, poor
housing and feed shortages have resulted in stunted slow-maturing animals and
in low animal-production coefficients; e.g., mature liveweight in cattle and
sheep is in the region of 300-350 kg and 18-22 kg, respectively, some 20-30%
below what it should be; mortality rates in cattle and sheep range from 20-30%
instead of about 5%; calving and lambing rates of about 50-60% instead of
80-90%; and milk production in cows totalling 300-400 kg per lactation instead
of possibly 1,000 kg.
2.09      Under SURDP I veterinary efforts focused on establishing a nucleus
cadre of animal health technicians to: (a) diagnose and treat diseased
animals; (b) conduct vaccination campaigns against contagious diseases and
drenching programs against internal parasites; (c) inspect carcasses at
*         municipal slaughterhouses and meat markets; and (d) control stray dogs to
reduce human exposure to rabies and hydatid cyst. Farmers were encouraged to
feed their animals domestically produced cottonseed meal supplemented with
minerals and vitamins. The program started slowly but became popular after
the first year primarily due to the successful control of an outbreak of
rinderpest (para 2.26).
Apiculture
2.10      Apiculture is widely practiced by small operators, who usually have
insufficient land for subsistence farming, in areas such as Ibb and Taiz,



- 8 -
where rainfall and flora make them suitable for honey production. With tradi-
tional hives the bee colonies are small and honey production rarely exceeds 3
kg/hive. Producers usually have 50-100 hives and migrate with their hives
within the region.
C. Land Tenure and Tenancy
2.11      Agriculture in the Southern Uplands is conducted mostly on small,
privately owned holdings, which represent about 82% of cultivable land, while
wayf (religious trusts) consists of only 15%, and state lands, 3%. There are
an estimated 81,000 small holdings in Taiz and 97,000 in Ibb, with an average
size of 2.8 and 2.0 ha, respectively. According to a 1973 sample survey of
Taiz, about two thirds of holdings averaged only 1 ha, 22% with 3 ha, and 12%
with 6 ha. The incidence of tenancy is lower than in the country as a whole;
according to information obtained by ARS in 1978, owner-operated farms consti-
tute 88% of all cultivated land in the Taiz Governorate and 73% in the Ibb
Governorate. Nevertheless, tenancy through traditional crop-sharing is still
prevalent, as many farmers operate both their own and rented small plots.
2.12      Most holdings cultivated in the project area are usually fragmented
into many dispersed parcels, some as small as 200-300 m2. On the steep,
terraced slopes access trails are narrow and rare. Very small or poorly
accessible terraces are usually cultivated by hand. In those areas where
topography lends itself to mechanization, the small size and dispersed location
of parcels prevent it. Land consolidation would be desirable but difficult to
achieve because of the strong sentimental attachment to inherited land rights.
2.13      Small holdings and the terms of tenancy provide for traditional
tenants a very precarious existence. In relatively isolated areas, the tenants'
share tends to be smaller and their obligations more rigid than in areas near
other sources of employment or where the emigration of landless workers has
been heavy. In a few areas labor scarcity has resulted in the full assumption
of input costs by landowners. In most areas, however, the tenant still bears
the full cost of inputs, which results in a proportionally higher income to
land owners than to tenants from the application of additional inputs to
increase yields and production.  In general, the share of the tenant of
rainfed cereals is 75% of the crop, while for irrigated and perennial crops,
it is as low as 25%. Eviction of tenants is unusual, and generally tenancy
rights are inherited. Fixed rental rates are rare because they imply a larger
degree of risk to the tenant in case of crop failures.
D.  Rural Infrastructure                                            4
2.14      Whereas the area had virtually no all-weather roads in the early
1970's, about 840 km of roads are now maintained by the Central Government's
Highway Authority. These include the highway from Sana'a to Turbah and the
Tihama, which bisects both Governorates. Most major rural communities are now
connected to the main roads by some 3,000 km of low-cost tracks opened by



- 9 -
Local Development Associations (LDAs) since 1975. These tracks, however,
deteriorate rapidly since they are not built according to permanent specifica-
tions as to alignment, width, base, grade and drainage, and are accessible
mainly by heavy duty vehicles or motorcycles during the dry season.
2.15      Rural infrastructure is severely lacking to satisfy the basic needs
for water, health and education of 80% of the estimated 1.7 million rural
inhabitants in the project area. Some progress has nevertheless been made
during the last 5 years with the construction of facilities by local initia-
tives, and under SURDP I. In addition to the 55 water supply schemes con-
structed by SURDU, each providing water to an average of 3,500 inhabitants
of several villages, local associations have constructed at least 150 indi-
vidual village water supply projects in Ibb and Taiz, roads (para. 2.14), plus
some 300 schools and about 130 health posts. Public electric supply is confined
to the main towns of the region, where it is provided by private companies. A
remarkable sign of change in rural areas during the last few years, however,
has been the rapid spread of electrification through the purchase of generators
by one or more households and shops in almost every village. This has led in
turn to the wider use of refrigeration of food and beverages and the use of
small appliances.
E. Social Characteristics and Local Institutions
2.16      The population of Ibb and Taiz Governorates is overwhelmingly rural;
about 94% of the 1.9 million total inhabitants live in approximately 4,200
hamlets and villages. Population density in the project area is three times
greater than in YAR as a whole, which is reflected in greater pressure on the
available agricultural land, i.e. 3 persons per ha, than most other regions.
With an average of about 5.6 persons per household in the region the average,
2 ha rainfed farm provides a per capita subsistence income of about YRls 913
per year (US$200) from agriculture, which is slightly above the relative
poverty level of about US$190 but well below per capita GDP in the country as
a whole. For tenants on a 50-50 crop sharing basis the situation is more
precarious.
2.17      In spite of the emigration of labor traditional village ties remain
strong. The lack of local administrative structures at the sub-district (uzlah)
level 1/, however, has prompted villages or groups of villages to establish
Village Development Committees or Boards (VDCs) to cope with the rural popula-
tion's needs for basic Government services. The VDCs elect delegates to
represent them at the Local Development Association (LDA) sub-district (uzlah)
or District (nahya) level. LDAs are connected to Government through (a) the
Governorate Coordinating Council (GCC), chaired by the Governor, in each
Governorate, and (b) the Confederation of Yemen Development Association (CYDA)
in Sana'a, whose General Secretary has the rank of Deputy Prime Minister. One
third of CYDA's 31 member board consists of delegates elected by all LDAs, a
1/   Smallest administrative unit composed of groups of villages, headed by
a tribal sheikh.



- 10 -
second group of 11 consists of Secretaries-General of GCCs, and 9 represent
line ministries and agencies of the Government. The main role of CYDA is to
coordinate all project activities with LDAs, GCCs and Government entities, and
if resources are available provide technical assistance. At the end of 1978
there were 155 LDAs representing almost all of YAR's administrative districts.
In Southern Uplands, the 40 existing LDAs represented every district. The
highest priority was assigned to road construction, which represented 84% of
planned expenditures in 1976-78, and 40% in 1979-80.
2.18      Among the foregoing entities only CYDA has a cadre of permanent
administrative and technical staff, while GCCs, LDAs and VDCs operate as
voluntary civic organizations, with virtually no full-time paid staff. Local
projects are financed with a blend of resources derived from: (a) 75% of
zakat (a religious, direct tax on production, wealth, income and per capita),
5% of customs duties, and excise taxes on travel and entertainment tickets;
(b) Central Government, which provides 25-50% of project costs; and (c) the
VDCs, which raise money from the beneficiaries by various means. In fact
beneficiaries at the village levels contribute more to project costs, i.e.
60-70%, rather than the general 25-30% under cost sharing formula, in view of
the tendency of LDAs to plan and undertake a larger number of projects than
the funds available from both the Central Government and the LDAs. The
advantage of a project such as SURDP II, therefore, is that it is possible
to bridge the financial gap between the resources available to LDAs and the
funds that can be raised at the village level for the construction of village
water supply schemes. Moreover LDAs and the GCC provide a suitable framework
for influencing the choice of priorities and coordinating the mobilization and
allocation of resources under projects such as SURDP I.
F. The First Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP I)
2.19      The first Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP I),
which became effective in January 1976, was the first major rural development
project in YAR. The project sought to improve the conditions of rural life
of about 21,000 families living in about 500 villages, and raise agricultural
productivity over approximately 35,000 ha, in the immediate vicinity of the
Sana'a-Taiz highway. The project provided for: (a) short and medium term
credit to farmers for farm inputs and investments, respectively; (b) the
construction of 90 village water supply systems and upgrading or building of
180 km of access roads; (c) minor irrigation and land protection works; (d)
the establishment of agricultural extension, plant protection and veterinary
services in the project area, including the necessary expatriate and counter-
part technical staff, training for the latter, and the required operating
facilities; and (e) a modest bilharzia monitoring and control program.
2.20      In 1975 project costs were estimated at US$23.2 million, of which
US$10 million was financed with an IDA credit (545-YAR), US$10 million from a
loan by the Abu Dhabi Fund, and the balance by the Government and the benefi-
ciaries. The project was designed to be implemented by the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project Unit (SURDU), a new department of the Ministry of
Agriculture.



- 11 -
2.21      As of January 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to US$4.93 million
from IDA and an equal amount from the Abu Dhabi Fund. All but US$2 million of
the IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund resources are now fully committed; project works
and activities are expected to be completed in 1981, i.e. almost one year
ahead of schedule, at a cost of about US$30 million, vs. US$23 million
estimated at appraisal. Earlier completion than expected is due mainly to
(a) the deletion of the roads component (para. 2.22); (b) increased project
costs due to inflation; and (c) a much greater demand for agricultural credit
for inputs and investment than anticipated at appraisal.  The 39% price
contingency for local costs estimated at appraisal in 1975 was exceeded by the
rate of domestic inflation within one year after effectiveness. For example,
during 1975-79 domestic construction costs rose four to six times, and salaries
of project staff, three to five times. Consequently, most of the increase in
local costs has required a larger contribution from both the Government and
beneficiaries, while reducing the purchasing power of the local cost commitment
of IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund. The effects of inflation on the project were
compounded further by delays in securing co-financing and recruiting both
expatriates and counterpart staff. The problem with recruiting project staff
persists for this and other projects in YAR. Thus, only 75 of the 119 exten-
sion agents planned for the end of the third year had been recruited, and
attrition among the expatriate experts had left 11 out of 17 posts vacant at
the end of 1979. Recently Government had taken some steps toward salary
adjustments which eased the recruitment of project staff to some extent.
Further improvements in this respect are, however, required.
2.22      Although inflation increased project costs, it did not considerably
affect project works, except that the number of village water supply schemes
was reduced from 90 to 55. The average scheme, however, is larger than ori-
ginally anticipated. It supplies an average of 6 villages with a combined
population of 3,500 inhabitants, compared with 900 at appraisal with the
result that the number of beneficiaries will be approximately double the
original estimate of 100,000. Moreover, LDAs carried out such an extensive
and low-cost access road building program in the project area, it became
unnecessary to build the 184 km of roads contemplated and these resources were
reallocated to village water supply without unfavorably affecting project
objectives, thereby avoiding more serious cost overrun problems.
2.23      In spite of the shortage of extension, plant protection and veter-
inary services staff, project achievements in agriculture have reached, and,
for agricultural inputs and credit, exceeded appraisal estimates. The network
of extension and home economics agents has expanded beyond the zone originally
contemplated and a wider audience than would normally be possible is being
reached through radio broadcasts, "leading farmers", LDA's and Village Devel-
opment Committees (VDCs). A group of enthusiastic home economics agents
working with the agriculture extension staff works on literacy, health,
nutrition and child care.
2.24      In three years the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), which has now
merged with ACB, has made medium and short term loans for YRls 11.8 million and
YRls 1.8 million (net), respectively, to approximately 9,500 borrowers, includ-
ing groups of borrowers. The number and amount of loans, as well as sales of



- 12 -
inputs (mainly fertilizer and seeds) have exceeded appraisal estimates. This
has been possible because of: (a) excellent coordination and mutual support
between ACF and extension agents; and (b) strong demand for credit by farmers.
Until its recent merger with ACB the ACF was also a channel for about YRls 9.3
million of ACB lending in the project area to finance farm investments (machin-
ery, poultry production and feed) which were not contemplated under SURDP I.
Repayment of loans by borrowers is high; the latest report indicates that on
short-term loans only 2% are delinquent and, for medium-term loans 1%, with no
loans overdue more than three months as of June 30, 1979.
2.25      The sale of inputs, for cash and on credit, through village merchants
attests to the effectiveness of the credit and extension programs.  The 4,000
m.t. fertilizer sold under the project in 1979 is almost three times larger
than the appraisal estimate. Moreover, it appears that it has stimulated
demand for at least an equal amount of inputs and supplies in the private
sector at prices which have clearly been influenced by those set by ACF out-
lets. The use of inputs appears to have had dramatic effects on yields in
the high rainfall area. According to a 1978 monitoring survey, wheat and
sorghum yields of "pilot" farmers supervised by extension agents were about
100% and 50% greater, respectively, than those of traditional control groups
in the same areas. While these findings for only one year are not conclu-
sive, similar results have been achieved with other crops in the project area.
2.26      In plant protection and animal health project activities have
strengthened farmers' confidence in the extension and veterinary staff. A
successful campaign against "army worm" infestation was waged over 11,000 ha
in 1977. The rinderpest vaccination campaign, under which over 300,000 head
have been vaccinated, beyond reducing the livestock mortality which would have
been caused by the serious outbreak towards the end of 1976, has brought the
Livestock Health and Production Department into direct contact with most
livestock owners in the two Governorates. This led to the demand for routine
vaccination, assistance with cattle and sheep dipping, and participation by
the project's livestock production staff in the design and construction of
small abattoirs, the promotion of concentrate feeding by dairy farmers, and
the provision of technical assistance to poultry farmers and bee-keepers.
2.27      The first project has demonstrated that, even under adverse finan-
cial conditions and with shortages of trained national staff, it is possible
to execute in only a few years a relatively simple rural development project
intended to provide services which previously were totally lacking. SURDP I
has also provided the needed institutional framework for public sector invest-
ments to complement the growth of LDAs, VDCs and agricultural trade in the
region. Conditions now exist, therefore, for replicating and expanding the
efforts started during the last three years. It can now be expected that a
second project in the same region would result in the firm establishment of
Ministry of Agriculture services and the ACB in the project area, which would
serve as a model in organization and investment for development in other
regions of the country. SURDP II would finance essentially the same activities
as SURDP I, taking into account the importance of livestock in the region, the
demand for medium and long-term credit, and the increased ability of the rural
population to bear a larger share of costs than under SURDP I.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Design Features
Objectives
3.01      The Project objectives are:  (a) to increase rural incomes and
living standards by raising crop and livestock production of about 60,000
farm families living in the highlands of the Taiz and Ibb Provinces; and (b)
to improve the health of the rural poor by providing potable water supply and
reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases.
Description
3.02      The Project includes:  (i) expansion of agricultural extension and
social services; (ii) expansion of livestock health and production services;
(iii) credit facilities for agricultural investment and inputs; (iv) provision
of rural water supplies and technical assistance for the construction of rural
roads and irrigation works; (v) project management and engineering services;
(vi) housing facilities for the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) staff;
(vii) bilharzia control program; and (viii) completion of feasibility studies
and preparation of final designs for the agricultural development of the Wadi
Jawf area.
Extension and Social Services
3.03      While SURDP I was designed to promote improved agriculture on
about 35,000 ha, its programs remain small in relation to the needs and
potential of the cultivated areas of the Taiz and Ibb Governorates' high-
lands. SURDP II will extend the agriculture services to about 86,000 ha
including 40,000 under SURDP I at full development (compared with 35,000 ha
estimated at appraisal), mainly in the high and medium intensity cultivated
areas in the highlands. For this purpose, the Project would provide the
services of an agricultural extension director/advisor (24 man-months); seven
extension experts (264 man-months) in the fields of agronomy, plant protec-
tion, horticulture, and agricultural machinery; two home economics specialists
(72 man-months) and one extension training specialist (24 man-months) who,
assisted by their counterparts and other support staff (details in Annex 2,
Table 4) and a team of trained leading farmers  (para. 4.08), would promote
the use of modern agricultural practices, establish demonstration farms,
disseminate the results obtained by the Agricultural Research Station at Taiz
with improved cultivars, assist in orchard development, in farm irrigation and
selective mechanization, and improve quality of rural life through health,
hygiene, food storage and processing, and nutritional education. In addition
to technical assistance, the Project would provide additional buildings to
serve the project area, namely, eight extension supervision centers, 50
extension stations and three block offices to augment the existing facilities
(para. 4.06). It would also provide vehicles, agricultural demonstration and



- 14 -
plant protection machinery and implements, equipment for central information
unit, demonstration materials and costs of conducting demonstrations, overseas
training (72 man-months) and in-service training (900 man-months) for exten-
sion agents and supervisors.
Animal Production and Health Services
3.04      In order to extend the veterinary services and livestock produc-
tion improvement programs started under SURDP I, the Project would provide:
(i) services of two livestock experts (72 man-months), one forage crop
expert (36 man-months) and one range management expert (36 man-months),
along with the services of counterparts, veterinary assistants, vaccinators
and laboratory and animal production assistants (Annex 2, Table 5); (ii)
transport equipment, vaccines, drugs and other required supplies; and (iii)
a small demonstration feed mill with a daily capacity of about four tons to
manufacture concentrate feeds from domestically produced cotton seed meal
and/or sesame meal, cereals, milling by-products and mineral and vitamin
supplements.
Agricultural Credit
3.05      The costs of crop and livestock development at the farm level,
conducted with guidance from SURDU's technical services, would be largely
financed by credit from the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). The ACB would
provide: (i) short-term loans to purchase incremental requirements of fertil-
izers, seeds, small farm implements and other supplies; and (ii) medium- and
long-term loans to purchase agricultural machinery and equipment, on-farm
irrigation and finance improvements such as the reconstruction of terrace
walls and fencing; the modernization of apiculture and small dairy farms. ACB
would also ensure availability of the required fertilizers, seeds and other
farm supplies by arranging their import and sales to farmers through village
agents. The estimated credit needs are shown in Annex 2, Table 6. In addition
to the credit requirements, the Project will also provide for the additional
costs of staff, offices, equipment, stores and transport required to expand
the availability of the credit in the Project area.
Rural Water Supply
3.06      The Project would aim to extend the provision of safe water to an
additional 100 village clusters, each supplying about 6-8 villages, in Taiz
and Ibb Provinces with an estimated population of about 300,000. The schemes
will involve drilling 60 tubewells and improving 20 dugwells and 20 springs to
serve as sources of potable water; pumping water obtained from these sources
to storage reservoirs constructed at higher elevations and, delivering it to
the surrounding villages at convenient points, through a network of distribu-
tion pipes. The beneficiaries will contribute about 40% of the cost of the
works to finance (i) 50% of the cost of pumping machinery; (ii) the cost of
land for pump houses, water reservoirs and access roads; and (iii) the cost of
constructing access roads, where required and water distribution networks from
the storage reservoirs to their respective villages, which are built by the



- 15 -
beneficiaries themselves. Similar arrangements were followed for constructing
water supply schemes under SURDP I and worked satisfactorily. The completed
works would be operated and maintained by mechanics contracted by the bene-
ficiaries, with technical guidance from the project's engineering staff (para.
4.25). This approach has worked satisfactorily under SURDP I (para. 4.29).
Rural Roads
3.07      The experience of the LDAs (para. 2.14) over the past four years
has demonstrated that they have been able to carry out a massive rural road
construction program, albeit of low standard, without any external financing
and, can be expected to complete the region's needs for such roads within a
few years with their own resources. Consequently, the Project would limit the
scope of its assistance to strengthening technical collaboration between SURDU
and LDAs. For this purpose, SURDU would employ one internationally recruited
roads engineer, with support staff, to provide technical assistance to LDAs
including selecting appropriate road alignments, providing guidance on appro-
priate gradients, machinery to be procured or hired for construction, designs
of drainage and retaining structures and on maintenance of the roads.
Project Management and Engineering Services
3.08      The Project provides for staff and equipment for the project manage-
ment and engineering (Annex 2, Table 3). Due to dearth of qualified trained
Yemeni staff in the fields of management and engineering, expatriate experts
and associate experts will be hired to fill the posts of technical and manage-
ment advisor (42 man-months), financial advisor (48 man-months), monitoring
and evaluation expert (48 man-months), civil engineers (156 man-months), and a
hydrogeologist (48 man-months). They will be supported by local staff for
implementing the Project. Their duties will include in-service training of
their Yemeni counterparts and other subordinate staff. The Project would also
provide 48 man-months of overseas studies for Yemeni graduate engineers.
Housing for the Agricultural Research Service Staff
3.09      The eventual establishment of a research farm and headquarters for
the ARS in a suitable rural area near Yarim will necessitate the construction
of housing facilities in order to recruit and retain a permanent staff. The
accommodations will comprise 23 housing units, two dormitories and the construc-
tion of a compound wall and internal roads and utilities. Land for construction
will be provided by the Government. The construction of housing will be
contingent on establishing the research farm and the connected office and
laboratory facilities by the Government at the new site, in lieu of the
existing facilities in Taiz which will be used by the Ministry of Agriculture
as its provincial offices. The buildings will either be cement block construc-
tion with concrete roofing or precast or prefabricated structures not
susceptible to damage from weather or termites. In case of precast or pre-
fabricated structures, the complete designs of the structures will be furnished
by the construction contractor. In the case of in situ buildings, designs
used by the Tihama Development Authority on its projects will be used with
suitable modifications where required.



- 16 -
Bilharzia Control
3.10      The Project would support an expansion of the bilharzia monitoring
and control campaign being initiated under the SURDP I in coordination with
the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health of the YAR
(YOH). Under a separate assistance program to YAR WHO is providing the
services of an epidemiologist and a short-term consultant malacologist along
with one vehicle and some laboratory equipment and drugs during the biennium
1980-81 for training workers in schistosomiasis control, particularly in the
use of molluscicides to treat transmission foci infested with snail inter-
mediate hosts. The epidemiological baseline studies would be completed in
the entire project area to define the size of the problem and develop optimal
methodologies for control under local conditions. Periodic focal molluscicid-
ing will be carried out by the Project's trained extension agents in coordina-
tion with the MOH sanitarians. Epidemiological evaluation of the control
measures will be made by the WHO epidemiologist. The project would finance
the costs of the extension workers (part-time) and the sanitarians to perform
the assigned duties. It would also finance the services of a medical assistant,
transport vehicles, and molluscicides and drugs required for a three-year
program during the project implementation (Annex 2, Table 8). Thereafter, the
program will be continued by the MOH as a part of their national health
program. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
Wadi Jawf: Feasibility Study
3.11      IDA financing will be provided to complete the feasibility studies
of small surface and groundwater irrigation schemes in the Wadi Jawf area in
the eastern plains and, if such studies warrant it, prepare final designs for
the irrigation schemes proposed.  Perimeter studies for the completion of Wadi
Jawf were carried out in 1977 and additional field surveys and investigations
begun in 1978 would be completed by about March 1981.
Engineering Status
3.12      The engineering requirements of the Project involve the designs
of the water supply schemes, and the buildings for the ARS headquarters,
extension, livestock, and credit services. Type designs of water supply
schemes being constructed for the first SURDP already exist and will be used
for this Project. The buildings to be constructed for the Project will be of
standard design agreed by IDA for other agricultural projects in YAR. The
engineering department of SURDP II will be sufficiently strong to incorporate
any changes in the available type designs should such changes be indicated in
any of the structures. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
plans for buildings will be submitted to IDA for review before beginning
construction.
Riparian Issues
3.13      The entire catchment area of the streams used for irrigation within
the project area is located within the Yemen Arab Republic and no structures
will be constructed on these streams under the Project; hence no international
riparian issues are involved.



- 17 -
Implementation Schedule
3.14      The Project would be implemented in four years in accordance with
the schedule in Chart #tWB21356 (Annex 3). Project implementation would
commence between January and June 1981 and procurement of all equipment and
construction of all civil works except civil works for rural water supply
schemes would be completed before the end of 1983. Implementation of the rest
of the Project will continue until the end of 1984. The Southern Uplands
Rural Development Unit (SURDU) of the Ministry of Agriculture will be respon-
sible for implementation of the Project, except for the credit component which
will be implemented by ACB in coordination with SURDU (para. 4.01).
B. Cost and Financing Arrangements
3.15      The estimated cost of the project including contingencies based
on January 1980 prices is YRls 367.2 million (US$81.6 million). Its foreign
exchange component is YRls 179.7 million (US$39.9 million) or 48% of Project
costs. The costs of imported equipment and materials reflect current inter-
national market prices. The costs of buildings construction, tubewells
drilling and water supply works involving civil construction are in accord
with current contract costs in SURDP area. Experts, to be directly hired by
the Government, including their travel, have been costed from US$40,000 to
US$50,000 per man-year and short-term consultants, including their travel and
overhead costs, at US$80,000 per man-year. This excludes local transportation
and subsistence costs equivalent to about US$15,000 per man-year which are
covered by project's operational and headquarters costs. Physical contingen-
cies have been taken as 10% on equipment, civil works and operational costs.
This allowance is considered adequate as type designs of the works involved
are available. Price contingencies allow for annual increases of 10% in the
case of imported equipment and foreign exchange component of civil works,
administration and operational costs; they also allow for annual increases of
30% for 1980, 27% for 1981 and 22% thereafter on local component of civil
works and operational costs. Price contingencies for local staff costs have
been taken as 20% for 1981 and 1982 and 17% thereafter. The high local
contingency rate reflects the high rate of inflation in YAR, particularly in
construction costs and wages, experienced in recent years due to the economic
stimulus generated by the steep rise in remittances. There are, however,
indications that price increases are slowing down. Total contingencies
(physical and price) are about 62% of the base cost. Import duties, taxes and
other levies are not included in the project costs as they are not charged on
goods imported for such projects. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1,
and in greater detail in Annex 2.



- 18 -
Table 3.1:  Project Costs
Local      Foreign      Total         Local      Foreign Exchange
-     YRls Million --------          --------Us$ Million --------%)
Project Management and Engineering
Staff and Training                               14.3          6.2        20.5           3.2         1.4          3.6
Equipment                                          -           1.4         1.4            -          0.3          0.3
Maintenance and Operation                         2.3          0.9         3.2           0.5         0.2          0.7
Subtotal                                       16.6         8.5         25.1          3.7          1.9         5.6             33
Rural Water Supply                                 29.8         51.9        81.7           6.6        11.5         18.1
Headquarters for ARS                                 3.1         4.4         7.5           0.7          1.0         1.7            59
Extension Services
Staff and Training                               21.8         6.5         28.3          4.9          1.4         6.3
Civil Works                                       6.2          6.3        12.5           1.4         1.4         2.8
Equipment and Supplies                            1.1          5.5         6.6           0.2         1.2          1.4
Maintenance and Operation                         1.2          1.2         2.4           0.2         0.3         0.5
Subtotal                                       30.3        19.5         49.8          6.7          4.3        11.0             39
Livestock Health and Production Services
Staff                                             6.2         2.4          8.6           1.4         0.5          1.9
Feedmill, Equipment, Supplies                     0.6          2.9         3.4           0.1         0.7          0.8
and Operation Cost
Subtotal                                        6.8         5.3         12.0          1.5          1.2         2.7             44
Agricultural Credit
Staff and Training                                2.8          1.5         4.3           0.6         0.4         1.0
Offices and Stores                                1.9         4.5          6.4           0.4         1.0         1.4
Equipment and Operational Costs                   0.3         1.9          2.2          0.1          0.4         0.5
Credit                                            5.7        28.9         34.6           1.3         6.4         7.7
Subtotal                                       10.7        36.8        47.5           2.4          8.2        10.6             78
Feasibility Study                                    -           1.8         1.8            -          0.4          0.4           100
Bilharzia Control                                   0.8          0.4         1.2           0.2         O.1          0.3            33
Base Cost                                      91.8       128.5       226.6          21.8        28.6         50.4             56
Contingencies (62%)
Physical (7%  of  Base Cost)                      5.5        11.1         16.6           1.2         2.5          3.7
Price     (51%  of  Base Cost + Physical         83.9        40.1        124.0         18.7          8.8        27.5
Contingencies)                                              _
Subtotal                                       89.4        51.2       140.6          19.9         11.3        31.2             36
Total Cost                                    187.5       179.7       367.2          41.7        39.9         81.6             48



- 19 -
Financing
3.16      An IDA credit of SDRs 13.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent) on
standard terms would finance about 43% of the foreign costs and 21% of total
costs. An International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of
SDRs 10.6 million (US$14.0 million equivalent) would finance about 17% of the
total costs. A Swiss Government loan of Swiss Francs 10.0 million (US$6 million
equivalent) will finance 7% of the total costs. The beneficiaries of the
4         water supply components would contribute the equivalent of $12.6 million
in local currency (in cash or in kind) which is 40% of the cost of water supply
component and about 16% of the total cost. The Government would finance
US$22.0 million equivalent or about 27% of the total cost. The remaining cost
of US$10 million equivalent or 12% of the total cost would be financed by the
Abu Dhabi Fund. The financing plan is summarized below.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN /1
Government  Beneficiaries  IDA    Swiss           IFAD    Abu Dhabi
Local         Local       F.E. F.E.  L/C  F.E.  L/C    F.E.
------------------     US$ Million ----------------------------
Project ManageFent
and Engineering          6.1                       2.5
Water Supply Schemes                    12.6        3.0  3.6   2.4                 10.0 /2
ARS Buildings             1.4                       1.3
Extension Services       11.6                       5.7
Livestock Health
and Production           2.2                       1.6
Feasibility Study
(Wadi Jawf)                                        0.4
Bilharzia Control         0.3                       0.1
Agricultural Credit       0.4             _2.4 /3                     9.3   4.7
Total              22.0            12.6       17.0     6.0          14.0     10.0
/1   All figures rounded.
/2   Represents cost of 48 tubewells water supply schemes excluding works
to be done by beneficiaries.
/3   Represent foreign currency costs of experts, civil works and equipment.
Conditions of effectiveness of IDA credit will include: (a) furnishing of
satisfactory evidence by the Government that the execution and delivery on
behalf of the Borrower of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the Swiss Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action and
all other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the said loans have been
fulfilled; and (b) the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan Agreement for a US$10 million
equivalent in foreign currency has been duly signed on behalf of the parties
thereto. Failure of the IDA Credit Agreement to become effective before
March 31, 1981 would be grounds for cancellation of IDA credit.



- 20 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.17      The civil works included in the IDA-financed components of the
Project would comprise: (a) headquarters for ARS and other buildings required
for agricultural services costing about US$9.4 million; and (b) rural water
supply works costing about US$3.0 million. Of these, headquarters for ARS
will cost about US$2.7 million equivalent and would be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). The rest of the buildings and water
supply works will be scattered over time and space and would not be suitable
for ICB and would be constructed using Government's local procurement
procedures which are competitive and acceptable. The procurement of equipment
(US$3.8 million) would be done through ICB in accordance with "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits" except for some minor items of
equipment costing less than US$100,000 each required for immediate use or
standardization, whose aggregate value will not exceed US$1,000,000 which
would be procured through the Government's local procurement procedures of
competitive bidding or international comparative shopping. A 15% preference
margin, or prevailing custom duty, whichever is less, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids under ICB. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations. During negotiations, assurances
were also obtained that the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of all expatriate staff will be satisfactory to the Borrower and
IDA. All procurement will be performed by SURDU. For items financed by other
sources, procurement will be in accordance with their rules.
IDA Disbursement
3.18      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against IDA-financed
components of the Project as follows:
Civil Works (excluding rural water supply)
SDRs 4.0 million (US$5.2 million equivalent)    60% of total expenditure.
Rural Water Supply
SDRs 2.3 million (US$3.0 million equivalent)    35% of cost of works to be
financed by IDA credit and
Swiss Loan.
Equipment and Goods
SDRs 2.9 million (US$3.8 million equivalent)    100% of foreign expenditure of
directly imported items, 80% of
expenditures for imported items
procured locally and 100% of
ex-factory cost of locally manu-
factured items.
Foreign Experts, Consultants
and Overseas Training
SDRs 3.5 million (US$4.6 million equivalent)    100% of expenditure.
Feasibility Study for
Wadi Jawf
SDRs 0.3 million (US$0.4 million equivalent)    100% of foreign expenditure.
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation. Estimated
Schedule of Disbursements and Schedule of Annual Expenditure are in Annex 2,
Tables 2A and 2B.



- 21 -
D. Environmental Impact
3.19      The Project will not have any adverse effects on the physical
environment; increased crop and livestock production, provision of wholesome
water and bilharzia control program would help improve the nutrition and
health of the population. No adverse effects are expected from the use of
plant protection chemicals. Their use will be based on applied research
recommendations and extension demonstration trials. The extension agents
would be trained by the project experts in the safe handling and use of plant
protection chemicals.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture
through (a) the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project Unit (SURDU),
and (b) the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). SURDU was established as a
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture in 1976 for SURDP I. It would
remain directly under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture,
independently of existing departmental units of the Ministry for operational
and financial purposes of the Project (Annex 1, World Bank Chart 21355).
At the end of the project SURDU offices in Ibb and Taiz would be merged
with the regular services of the Ministry of Agriculture in Ibb and Taiz
Governorates (para. 4.04). Consequently assurances were obtained during
negotiations that on or before December 31, 1983, the borrower would prepare
and submit to IDA the plan for the merger of SURDU and the existing agricul-
ture and rural development services, which would become effective at the end
of the project. The plan would include, inter alia, provision for financial
and manpower resources to ensure that SURDU services will continue to be
available in the project area after project completion.
4.02      Notwithstanding the operational and financial independence of SURDU
coordination mechanisms will be established in the Ministry of Agriculture and
among ministries and entities concerned with agriculture and rural development.
In the Ministry of Agriculture coordination will be maintained through the
Deputy Minister. Coordination among Ministries and other entities will be
achieved through a coordinating committee (established under SURDP I) which
would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and include senior officials
representing the Central Planning Organization, the Ministry of Finance, the
Rural Water Supply Department of the Ministry of Public Works, CYDA, the Proj-
ect Manager of SURDU and the Director of the ARS. The Project Manager and
pertinent staff will meet regularly with the GCC to report on and secure
support for project implementation, especially regarding specific rural infra-
structure and water supply schemes (para. 4.26) afforestation, plant protec-
tion and vaccination campaigns, bilharzia control and agricultural extension
and social services.



- 22 -
4.03      SURDU management for the duration of the project will consist of an
experienced project manager, an expatriate technical and management advisor,
four senior technicians with prerequisite qualifications in their respective
fields, each of whom would administer one major component of the project,
i.e., Extension and Social Services, Rural Infrastructure and Engineering,
Animal Health and Production, Administration and Finance, and a Monitoring and
Evaluation specialist. Moreover, in view of the acute shortage and inexperience
of Yemeni technicians to direct field activities and the need for on-the-job
training to newly hired staff, expatriates would also be needed for the first
2-3 years in field positions, or until counterparts can assume full res-
ponsibility, i.e. three years in most instances. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the senior technical and management advisor would be
recruited not later than December 31, 1980, and other internationally recruited
advisory staff not later than April 1, 1981.
4.04      The present functions and responsibilities of SURDU, which were
stipulated in Credit Agreement 545-YAR, will be expanded and formally amended
in terms consistent with SURDP II project objectives. The new formal respon-
sibilities will include, inter alia:
(a) establish regional offices in Ibb and Taiz Governorates to
perform the functions shown in the organizational chart
(Annex 1, Chart WB 21355);
(b) conduct formal on-the-job training according to desired
skill level objectives for counterparts at all levels in
each major function, and report annually to the Minister of
the level of proficiency attained;
(c) survey, design and supervise the construction and equipment
of permanent offices, accommodations and stores for ACB
branches and sub-branches in the project area; and
(d) prepare annual work programs and corresponding budgets
not later than 90 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year, for submission to the Minister of Agriculture, IDA
and co-financiers.
4.05      In order to enable SURDU to perform its expanded tasks, the Minister
of Agriculture will formally delegate authority to the Project Manager, which
would pertain, inter alia, to the following:
(a) organization and operation of project activities on behalf
of the Ministry of Agriculture within the guidelines and
policies set by the Ministry and Government, but otherwise
independently of its existing Departments, except for
co-ordination as necessary;



- 23 -
(b) acquisition of land for works and right of access to lands
owned by others for purposes of surveys, data collection
or any other activities intended to attain project objectives;
(c) operation of nurseries, including those for coffee and
forestry, owned or leased by the Ministry of Agriculture
in the project area;
(d) entering into contractual agreement with firms or local
entities for the execution of works and procurement of
goods;
(e) issuance of administrative regulations for the organization
and execution of project activities, which would be counter-
signed by the Minister; and
(f) contract experts, consultants and other staff who are needed
for the timely execution of the project.
An agreement was reached during negotiations on the responsibilities of
SURDU and a draft of the authority delegated by the Minister of Agriculture
to the Project Manager would be submitted for review by IDA. Pertinent admin-
istrative regulations would be issued not later than December 31, 1980. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
B. Project Implementation
Extension and Social Services
4.06      In each Governorate, agricultural extension and additional social
services, as well as veterinary and livestock production services (para.
4.11), will reach farm families through 95 extension agents operating from 77
facilities, of which 27 would have been built under SURDP I, and a growing
group of leading farmers. Each group of 5-6 extension agents will be guided
by an extension supervisor who will be linked to one of six regional extension
"block" centers, of which three have been built under SURDP I. Each block
center will consist of an expatriate extension specialist and a veterinary/
livestock production officer, and their counterparts.
4.07      Agricultural extension demonstrations and related activities will be
continued on the SURDP I area and (a) in fertile areas where little extension
work had previously been done due to poor accessibility, where the use of
basic inputs and improved land use can have a relatively rapid effect on
production, e.g. with vegetable, forage and fruit crops; and (b) the more arid
areas (under 500 mm) where there is little scope for technological improvement
except through plant protection, selected mechanization, bee-keeping, affore-
station, forage trials and range improvement.
4.08      The basic extension activities include:  farmer's training, usually
on specific subjects such as land preparation, seed selection and dressing,



- 24 -
fertilizer application and plant protection; field demonstrations on major
cereal, vegetables and forage crops, the establishment of pilot orchards,
statistical data collection, and the preparation of requests for ACB credit.
In order to reach the largest possible number of farmers and improve
person-to-person communications the extension service will also work through
local entities, i.e. LDAs and VDCs. These entities will be encouraged to
sponsor or nominate leading farmers who are likely to contribute to attaining
project objectives. About 300 leading farmers would be selected, who would
attend regular training sessions and organize field days and demonstrations in
their own villages, with the assistance of extension supervisors. Non-monetary
incentives would be offered by the project to leading farmers for their active
participation.
4.09      The seven internationally recruited extension specialists (Annex 2,
Table 4) would include specialists in horticulture, plant protection, farm
machinery and irrigation agronomy. While they will primarily be responsible
for the area covered by their respective block center they would also serve as
subject matter specialists for the project as a whole, both for training and
the preparation and execution of the extension program in their respective
specialities. They would collaborate with ACB in reviewing farm investment
plans, and other departments of SURDU, e.g., rural engineering for field
irrigation and horticultural nurseries. Their counterparts, through both
formal on-the-job training and short courses abroad will acquire experience
in these specialties. The program of home economics extension and social
services, initiated during SURDP I by recruiting and training agents, mostly
women, will emphasize food conservation, nutrition and agricultural production
in which women now play a considerably larger role. Two expatriate home
economics specialists will be employed during three years for Taiz and Ibb,
and funds will be provided for a consultant to help establish a training
program for women extension agents.
4.10      Since the Ibb agricultural school will not graduate any student
until 1983, at the earliest, training of prospective extension agents is to be
continued as presently carried out by the Agricultural Research Service (ARS).
During the first two years, an expatriate training officer will be provided
under SURDP II, and thereafter by the national staff assisted by expatriate
part-time trainer (from the ARS). It is expected that three groups of 25
extension agents will be trained in this manner for the two Governorates. The
expatriate training officer and his national counterpart would also be respon-
sible for coordinating all training plans for the project (para. 4.27) and the
preparation of a mass communications and audiovisual aids program, which would
be assisted by short-term consultants.
Animal Health and Production
4.11      All veterinary and livestock production activities will be imple-
mented under the general direction of the senior livestock specialist of
SURDU through the veterinary and livestock production units of Ibb and Taiz
Governorates, the block centers, and field trials on forage crops and range
rehabilitation conducted by the ARS (para. 4.15). The offices in Ibb and Taiz
will each be headed by expatriate livestock experts for three years; the



- 25 -
Senior Livestock specialist posted at Taiz will direct these activities. Each
of the two main offices will also have four veterinary assistants, four
vaccinators and one animal production technician. One veterinary assistant
will be posted at each block center. Animal health technicians needed for
this program are being trained in Sana'a at the Ministry of Agriculture's
Livestock Training Center, with assistance from the United Kingdom. The
expatriate veterinarians will be assisted by and train Yemeni counterparts to
enable them to assume responsibility for the services at the beginning or
during the fourth year of the project.  The veterinary service will conduct
vaccination campaigns, diagnose and treat diseased animals; initiate drenching
programs against internal parasites; inspect meat and hygiene at municipal
rl        slaughterhouses and meat markets; enforce regulations on animal movements; and
control the stray dog population.
4.12      Livestock production services will be responsible for operating
the feed-mixing plant (para. 4.13), advising farmers on livestock housing,
feeding, management and breeding, growing forage crop and making hay and
silage, and monitor ACB financed livestock production. The services will
generate baseline data on the livestock population in the two Governorates,
production capabilities under traditional and improved management practices,
and the nature and effects of disease.
4.13      SURDU will establish a feed-mixing plant with a daily capacity
of 4 tons in Taiz, which it will transfer to ACB or sell to private interests
at the end of the project. Finished feed will be prepared from domestically
produced cottonseed or sesame seed meals as a base, plus cereals grain and
milling by-products. It will be distributed by the ACB or SURDU and retailed
to farmers for either cash or on credit through ACB village merchants on the
recommendation of animal health and livestock technicians in the same way as
other farm inputs (para. 4.23). Prices to farmers will-be calculated on the
basis of costs plus a markup of 10%. In order to ensure that the feed-mixing
plant will have sufficient working capital an assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Government will provide SURDU a revolving fund of at
least YRls 100,000 to the project feed-mill.
4.14      With technical assistance and credit a total of 50 existing small
dairy farms will be developed to test and demonstrate the feasibility that by
improving nutrition, breeding, health and shelter, milk production and farm
income can be increased. The demonstration farms will be grouped in clusters
of 4-5 located near extension block centers and within 1-2 hours from Ibb and
Taiz.  The prerequisites for selection of and participation by farmers are:
(a) to have several milking cows and be willing to cull unproductive animals,
retaining only two or three; (b) to own land under year-round irrigation and
agree, first, to plant 0.1-0.2 ha of alfalfa for each milking cow retained
and, second, to preserve some of this forage as hay or silage for feeding
during winter; (c) agree to renovate barns along lines recommended by project
staff--essentially minor alterations to improve ventilation and reduce humidity
and to provide an open pen equipped with feed and water troughs; and (d) to
share with other dairymen in the purchase of a Friesian bull calf from the
Yarim dairy farm financed under the IDA-assisted livestock project (LCPP) to
upgrade native animals.



- 26 -
4.15      Field research on forage crop production and range rehabilitation
will be started by forage and range specialists recruited by SURDU for this
purpose. They will be attached to the Taiz ARS for research supervision, to
extend trials started elsewhere under the LCPP. The program will be headed by
an expatriate senior forage and range specialist for a period of three years.
An associate expatriate forage and range specialist will be assigned to Ibb
for three years. Each expatriate will be assisted by and train a counterpart
forage and range specialist. In coordination with extension service field
trials and demonstration plots on the production of forage and the rehabilita-
tion of range will be conducted in various ecological zones of the project
area to generate "technological packages" with which the extension service can
assist farmers in increasing feed production, and integrate livestock with
crops.
Agricultural Credit
The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB)
4.16      The ACB, which has become the credit channel for all IDA financed
agricultural projects in YAR since its merger with ACF, would be responsible
for providing credit to farmers through branches in Ibb and Taiz and sub-
branches to be constructed in Yarim and Turbah. The Agricultural Credit
Advisor employed previously by SURDU would be transferred to ACB.
4.17      The ACB was established in 1975 and commenced lending operations
in 1976. It has an authorized capital of YRls 100 million, which has now been
paid in by the Government, and is governed by a Board of Directors consisting
of the Deputy Ministers of Agriculture, Economy, Finance, the Deputy Chairman
of the CPO, the Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank, the General Secretary of
CYDA, and the President of ACB as chairman of the Board. In early 1980, ACB
and ACF merged their operations. In addition to its headquarters in Sana'a,
ACB operates 8 branches. Its volume of lending in 1978-79 amounted to approxi-
mately YRls 40 million, or almost one-half of its cumulative lending since it
began operations in FY1976. Its outstanding loans in the project area amounted
to YRls 16.2 million as of June 30, 1979, including YRls 9.8 million lent by
the ACF before the merger of the two entities. The loan repayment record of
ACB borrowers nationally is very high, i.e. almost 100% of short term loans
and 92% of medium and long term loans are current; there was no delinquency in
excess of 90 days in the project area in 1979 on loans made by ACB or ACF.
4.18      Since a large proportion of lending by ACB before merger with ACF
has been from its own capital and it does not yet have deposits as a source of
loan funds, an increase in its capital base is necessary to expand its opera-
tions in the southern highlands. At least YRls 63 million from the credit
component provided by a co-financier for the project would, therefore, repre-
sent an addition to its capital. Consequently, an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that ACB's authorized capital will be doubled from YRls
100 to YRls 200 million not later than December 31, 1980, thereby enabling it
to accommodate capital contributions under this and other projects (e.g.
Fisheries). Moreover, its capital requirements would be reviewed every two



- 27 -
years thereafter concurrently with the review of interest rates (para. 4.27).
Short-term consultants to undertake this review have been provided under the
project (Annex 2, Table 6).
Credit Requirements
4.19      Total credit requirements, excluding contingencies, are estimated
at YRls 34.6 million (US$7.7 million), which consists of YRls 14.6 million
for short-term and YRls 20.0 million for medium term credit (Annex 2, Tables 1
and 6). Estimates for short term credit needs are based on expected demand
for the first year (over SURDP I requirements) plus the incremental cost of
inputs financed for the next three years.  Medium term credit estimates are
based on the needs of about 3,000 farmers to finance investment in fruit
trees, irrigation, farm equipment, bee-keeping, and small dairy farms. In
order to start SURDP II operations promptly, an assurance was obtained during
negotations that Government will advance, or cause the Central Bank to lend to
ACB, not later than 1 April 1981, YRls 2 million which represents about 25% of
the first year's incremental credit requirements. The advance is necessary in
view of the time lag between start-up expenditures by ACB and repayment during
the first three years which permit it to accumulate only a small surplus.
Lending policies and procedures
4.20      Short term credit would finance additional inputs such as seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, animal feed, and small inexpensive equipment such as
bee-hives or sprayers and replacement parts for pumps and motors. Medium term
loans, for a maximum of five years, would finance investment such as fruit
trees, tractors, equipment and construction on dairy farms.
4.21      Lending procedures would follow the same criteria which have worked
well through the years. Short term production loans are approved for as much
as 75% of the costs of production inputs, on the basis of assistance provided
to borrowers by extension agents in preparing loan applications, and the
certification as to the adequacy of the borrower's plans for the planting
season relative to updated estimates of costs of production and prices. As a
result, small loans are approved in one or two days, and those requiring
approval by the Branch Office, i.e. up to YRls 35,000, are usually processed
in one week by the local loan committee. Upon certification by extension
agents as to the type and quantity of inputs required, distribution agents
(village merchants), contracted by ACB simply provide the farmer with the
supplies. For medium and long-term loans, ACB procedures are more central-
ized. Loan applications for amounts larger than YRls 35,000 are referred to
ACB Headquarters in Sana'a for approval. There are no restrictions on the
eligibility of borrowers provided that all loans are secured with collateral,
chattel or written guarantees. All loans larger than YRls 20,000 require
collateral by the borrower or appropriate guarantees from a bank or co-signer.
4.22      Interest rates on short term loans by the ACB were raised from 7%
to 10.5% in February 1980, and from 6% to 9.5% for medium and long term loans.



- 28 -
These rates were further increased by 2% in April 1980 but were lowered again
by Government directive on July 15, 1980 to 9% for short term and 8% for
medium term loans. All these rates are less than the present and forecast
rates of domestic inflation, i.e. 30% in 1980, declining to 20% in 1983 and
tapering off thereafter. YAR has a long tradition of negative interest rates
for both specialized financial institutions and commercial banks. Although
the new interest rates are less negative than those prevailing before the
February 1980 revision, they would enable ACB to maintain a positive pro forma
cash flow for the project (Annex 2, Table 11) only if loan repayments remain
high. The effect of negative interest rates on the financial position of ACB
will need to be closely monitored. An assurance was obtained during nego-
tiations that interest rates charged by ACB will be reviewed by the Government
not later than February 28, 1981 and thereafter at intervals not exceeding two
years.
Procurement and Distribution of Inputs and Equipment
4.23      SURDU would assist ACB in procurement of farm inputs which will be
financed by a co-financier and which it would provide to farmers at prices 10%
above the purchase price through village agents, selected from among local
merchants. This system has worked well under SURDP I and additional village
agents would be contracted in the project area as necessary. As custodians of
the inputs they would be responsible for their proper storage and would be
accountable for all supplies, their distribution and collection of cash. For
these responsibilities, distribution agents would be paid a margin, now 4%, of
the price of inputs sold. ACB closely monitors these arrangements by twice-
monthly cash collections and inventory control. Regarding tractors, poultry
equipment and other long-term investment, these are available from suppliers
in YAR. The availability of spare parts and the adequacy of facilities for
equipment maintenance would be considered in selecting particular makes.  In
order to ensure that appropriate investments are made by livestock producers,
including broiler producers and bee-keepers, an assurance would be obtained
during negotiations that, when required, ACB would contract an experienced
livestock credit specialist.
4.24      The growth and expansion of ACB in the project area and other parts
of YAR is expected to require more trained staff and the modernization of its
administrative and financial management. Consequently, beginning with the
project area provision has been made for in-service training (para 4.27),
and purchasing electronic bookkeeping and accounting equipment (Annex 2,
Table 6) to speed up the recording of transactions and enable it to prepare
its financial statements promptly.
Rural Infrastructure and Engineering Services
4.25      The expatriate engineering staff of the Project would be headed by a
chief engineer and would include a design engineer, four civil engineers and
one hydrogeologist.  The chief engineer will be a university graduate in civil
engineering with a minimum of 15 years of experience in large engineering
projects including construction designs and management. The other engineers
and the hydrogeologist will also be university graduates with a minimum of 12



- 29 -
years of experience in their respective fields of duty. The design engineer
will have experience in designs and procurement of civil works, certification
of contractors' bills and resolution of claims. Of the four civil engineers,
one will be experienced in roads planning and construction, one in water
supply schemes, one in buildings and one in irrigation works. The field
engineers assisted by their counterparts, engineering supervisors and surveyors
(Annex 2, Table 3) will supervise the implementation of all the project works
and provide technical guidance to LDAs and VDCs for: (i) village road planning,
construction and maintenance; (ii) farm irrigation systems development and
wadi protection works; and (iii) construction of distribution network of the
water supply schemes. The hydrogeologist will plan and supervise the improve-
ment of springs and dugwells, and drilling and testing of tubewells. Apart
from their general engineering duties, the expatriate staff will train their
counterparts and other subordinate staff in their respective fields of expertise.
Village Water Supply
4.26      The implementation of the village water supply schemes will follow
criteria applied under SURDP I. Priority will be given to villages and groups
of villages with present population of under 10,000 and over 500, which are
currently served by quantitatively inadequate, distant or unhealthy sources of
water. SURDU has already identified 36 villages (Annex 2, Table 13) meet-
ing the above requirements. Most of these villages have already applied for
water supply facilities. Further identification work will proceed after
receipt of requests from CYDA or the LDAs or VDC's, which are reviewed by a
committee composed of the GCCs, CYDA and STTRDU in each Governorate. Finan-
cial and technical assistance by SURDU for the execution of works would be
contingent on:
(a) approval by the GCC or CYDA of the scheme's priority;
(b) agreement by the beneficiary communities to contribute about 40% of
construction costs comprising the cost of land, access roads to work
sites, 50% of the cost of pumping set and 100% of the distribution
network beyond the delivery reservoirs; and to deposit 10% of proj-
ect costs in escrow upon concluding the agreement with SURDU, which
represents their share of pumping machines procured by SURDU;
(c) agreement to bear all costs for operation and maintenance of the
completed schemes; and
(d) geophysical testing to demonstrate the technical feasibility of
constructing the proposed schemes.
Training and Fellowships
4.27      In addition to formal on-the-job training to ensure that counter-
parts will attain an adequate level of proficiency for assuming responsibili-
ties for agriculture and rural development, funds have been provided for 72
staff-months of short-term overseas training in extension agronomy. The



- 30 -
project also includes funds for a general course in agricultural credit
administration for branch managers, loan officers and other staff of ACB and
the Ministry of Agriculture (Annex 2, Table 6) and for the continuation of the
ARS program for extension agents (para. 4.10). A total of 48 man-months of
university level training is also provided for in rural engineering. The
choice, timing and coordination of training programs and selection of
candidates would be satisfactory to IDA. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that SURDU would appoint a training coordinator and present to
IDA a detailed annual training program, including qualifications of candidates,
by June 30, 1981, and annually thereafter. In order to ensure that there are
enough university-trained staff in the Project area, an assurance was also
obtained during negotiations that the Government will closely monitor the
assignment to SURDU of persons returning from university and post-graduate
studies abroad under fellowships provided by the Project.
C. Operation and Maintenance
4.28      The continued supply of animal feeds, fertilizers and other inputs
would be important for continuing the project after the fourth year. Their
requirements would be determined jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and
ACB from year to year. After the implementation of the project, the Govern-
ment would ensure annual procurement and distribution of feeds, fertilizers
and other inputs in an amount equivalent to at least those levels at which
such inputs were applied in the last year of project implementation. Respon-
sibility for operation of the feed mill would be transferred from SURDU to ACB
or sold to a private firm not later than 48 months after project effectiveness.
Village Water Supply Schemes
4.29      At present there is no suitably staffed local authority in Ibb or
Taiz Governorates that could assume responsibility for operation and mainte-
nance of the water supply installations after their completion. Nevertheless,
groups of rural communities for which SURDU has constructed such systems since
1977 have operated and maintained them adequately by hiring mechanics and
plumbers, and paying the maintenance and operations costs from per capita
assessments ranging from YRls 10 to 30 per year, depending on ability to pay
and size of households. The present practice is satisfactory though not a
substitute for systematic and regular maintenance.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.30      Systematic monitoring and evaluation of project achievements and the
means employed would be used by SURDU management for both planning and control
of project activities, and to facilitate reporting to the Government of YAR
and the financing entities. Full time monitoring and evaluation will require



- 31 -
(a) the compilation of more complete and reliable baseline data on socio-
economic characteristics and agriculture than presently exists, and (b)
conducting surveys on the costs, means, and effects of major project activi-
ties. The latter is also intended to give project management flexibility
of action based on sound information. Consequently, a Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit would be established in SURDU; it would initially be staffed with an
expatriate economist and/or rural sociologist experienced in agricultural and
rural development projects and two counterparts.
4.31      The Monitoring and Evaluation unit will first conduct a baseline
survey of the areas covered by the project, to provide a valid basis with
which to periodically evaluate project activities and prepare a completion
report. Second it will design a standardized system of records for, and
simple reports regarding project activities by, each SURDU entity. Third, it
will prepare quarterly reports during project implementation and annually
thereafter, in a format acceptable to the Government, IDA and co-financing
institutions. In addition, it would prepare a completion report and submit
it to the Government for transmittal to IDA within six months of the closing
date of the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
4.32      In view of the size and multiple activities of the project the
Government would, not later than March 31, 1983, conduct a mid-project evalua-
tion in which IDA and co-financiers will be invited to participate. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.33      SURDU would maintain separate accounts of project expenditures with
appropriate subsidiary accounts for each project component. These accounts,
maintained according to sound and consistently applied accounting principles,
would accurately reflect receipts and expenditures undertaken for the project
and clearly identify the goods and services procured and works performed.
ACB would similarly maintain separate accounts for the lending operations
under the project. These accounts will reflect short, medium and long term
lending and commercial operations such as sales of agricultural inputs.
Further, ACB will maintain separate accounts for investments such as office
equipment and vehicles. The accounts of both SURDU and ACB would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. A copy of the certified
audit reports, together with certified copies of the audited accounts and the
auditor's observations thereon, would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of the fiscal year. Similar auditing arrangements under SURDP I
have been satisfactory and regular reports have been received. Assurances on
the above were otained during negotiations.



- 32 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Land Use and Crop Production
5.01      Achieving the project's objectives would rely less on dramatic
changes in land use, which are under way in YAR, than by rapidly expanding the
use of inputs, improving land preparation, irrigation, plant protection, and
harvesting techniques. Consequently, the cropping pattern and total area
planted in the project area would be only slightly affected by the project,
except where double cropping is possible.
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP AREA UNDER SURDP I AND SURDP II
S. Highlands     SURDP I Area           SURDP II Area
Total        Present    Future  Incremental  Total
__   ________ ('000 ha)-----------------
Sorghum and millet      193.5          10.7        20.0       17.0        37.0
Wheat                    21.0           4.2         6.6         5.7       12.3
Barley                   16.0            --         1.6         5.0        6.6
Maize                    45.8           2.0         5.3         6.7       12.0
Pulses                   26.5           0.4         0.4         1.4        1.8
Potatoes                  8.5           1.4         3.0         4.8        7.8
Vegetables /3             7.6           1.1         1.9         2.3        4.2
Fruit trees               2.0           0.3         0.4         1.3        1.7
Coffee                    2.2           0.3         0.5        0.5         1.0
Forage crops              1.7           0.3         0.3        1.4         1.7
Total              325.0          20.7       40.0        46.0        86.0
/1   Total estimate of low rainfall, high rainfall and irrigated areas,
excluding coastal plain. Estimates vary widely depending on source of
data and year.
/2   Combined SURDP I and II crop areas at full development.
/3   Tomatoes used as representative crop for onions, cucumbers, peppers, etc.
5.02      The changes anticipated in land use follow recent trends in YAR
toward a decrease of area planted with cereals in rainfed areas, and the
substitution of crops such as potatoes and maize, for sorghum, barley and
wheat in rainfed areas, and the expansion of vegetable, fruit and forage
production in irrigated areas. The envisaged changes would be accompanied
by yield increasing and cost saving techniques such as those already intro-
duced so far over a small area (i.e., about 21,000 ha) under SURDP I. Even
where the area planted is expected to decrease, i.e., sorghum and barley,
total production can thus be maintained due to higher yields. With SURDP II
total area covered would expand to about 86,000 ha at full development,



- 33 -
including a maximum of 40,000 ha attainable at full development under SURDP I.
Over the long term the project is also expected to influence crop yields
and agricultural performance in the region as a whole through the demonstra-
tion effect of improved techniques, new crop and tree varieties, and the
availability of farm inputs through commercial outlets. This has already
begun as a result of SURDP I. As in SURDP I, no technical assistance or
inputs would be provided in SURDP II for qat production. There is no basis,
however, for anticipating any reduction in the land area planted with qat,
i.e. an estimated 40,000 ha, because it is the most profitable crop produced
in YAR. However, the project may offer opportunities over the long term for
alternative sources of income from cash crops such as fruit trees.
5.03      The additional 46,000 ha covered under SURPD II would consist
of about 10,000 ha in low rainfall and 24,000 ha in high rainfall areas,
and approximately 12,000 ha of irrigated land. In low rainfall areas, where
the trend is toward a slow decline of low yielding cereal production, the
basic pattern of planting sorghum, millet and barley, with about one-third of
the arable land left fallow, will remain about the same as at present.
Improvements will result mainly from plant protection and selective mechaniza-
tion. Plant protection would enable farmers to obtain modest yield increases
at a low cost, and mechanization would provide the means for reducing labor
costs where topography and size of fields enable mechanized land preparation
and threshing.
5.04      In the high rainfall zone, the extension services and the avail-
ability of farm inputs and credit would enable farmers to choose between
raising yields of traditional crops and shifting to more profitable ones. The
changes would be influenced by an increased supply and use of fertilizers,
partial mechanization for land preparation, seeding and threshing, improved
weed control and special plant protection assistance for horticultural crops.
Improved varieties of wheat, potatoes, and maize have been introduced and seed
multiplication programs are under way with external assistance.
5.05      Irrigation improvements and better water application practices on
800 farms, along with the use of suitable inputs and practices, are expected
to contribute to increased production and income from food and forage crops
and fruits. The planting of fruit trees (para. 5.08) will be promoted through
medium-term credit and supporting nursery services.
5.06      Crop yields in the southern highlands have already shown signs of
increase, largely due to the influence of the SURDP I and other projects.  A
major factor has been the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
sprayers and improved seed, which have become available at commercial out-
*          lets.  Yield improvements through SURDP I have thus far been confined to a
geographically compact area adjacent to the main highway. Under SURDP II it
is expected that agricultural services will be provided in an expanded and
more geographically dispersed area than under SURDP I. The resulting yield
improvements, therefore, in the SURDP II area (46,000 ha) are shown in com-
parison with those attainable without the project (Table 5.2).



- 34 -
5.07      The estimated increase in crop production at full development on
46,000 ha covered under SURDP II (Table 5.3) from the tenth year onward is
based on the good response to farm inputs in both high rainfall and irrigated
zones, and their low cost relative to product prices. However, increases in
output of some crops, e.g. barley, low rainfall sorghum and pulses, are small
or negligible. One reason is that, except for wheat and maize, and vegetables,
widely adaptable improved crop varieties are not yet available as several
years of adaptive trials must still be conducted under the widely different
climatic conditions of the region. Consequently, for these crops there are no
major yield increasing remedies applicable over large areas. A second reason
is the slow pace of development during the early years in view of the manpower
and land tenancy constraints. It is not expected that a total of 95 extension
agents, and 300 leading farmers, can be effective over a wider area than the
total of 86,000 ha for both SURDP I and SURDP II. Concerning land tenancy,
the restriction of incentives for tenants under existing crop sharing arrange-
ments is under review by the Government with the assistance of the UN Economic
Commission for West Asia (paras. 1.08 and 2.13). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the measures adopted will be sufficient to provide
incentives for tenants to adopt yield increasing techniques and offer
opportunities and safeguards for medium and long term investments.
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP YIELDS IN SURDP II AREA
Projected   /1
Year 4           Full Development
Without   With       Without    With
Present    Project  Project    Project  Project
-----------------tons/ha--------------------
CROP
Sorghum/millet - low rainfall  0.70         0.72      0.75       0.76      0.90
Sorghum - high rainfall          1.50       1.60      1.90        2.06     2.50
Sorghum - irrigated              2.50       2.70      2.90        2.92     3.20
Wheat - high rainfall            0.90       0.99      1.10        1.25     1.60
Barley - low rainfall            0.40       0.41      0.43        0.43     0.50
Barley - high rainfall          0.80        0.83      0.84       0.90      1.00
Maize - high rainfall            1.00       1.15      1.60        1.45     2.80
Maize - irrigated                2.00        2.30     2.80        2.50     3.60
Potatoes - high rainfall         8.00       8.80    10.00        10.00    13.00
Potatoes - irrigated            10.00      11.00    12.00       12.50    15.00
Pulses - irrigated               1.20       1.28      1.40        1.40     1.60
Alfalfa - high rainfall         20.00      21.60    22.00        25.00    30.00
Alfalfa - irrigated             60.00      63.00    80.00        72.00    80.00
Vegetables                       8.00       9.20    10.50        12.20    15.00
Fruits                           4.00       4.50      5.00        7.60    10.00
Coffee                           0.40       0.41      0.42        0.50     0.60
/1 Year 9-10.



- 35 -
Table 5.3: ESTIMATED INCREASES IN CROP PRODUCTION IN SURDP II AREA /1
Full development
Without    With        Incremental
Project  Project       Production
-------- ('000 tons)       
Sorghum/millet                           26.4      32.1            5.8
Wheat                                      7.1      9.1            2.0
Barley                                     3.2      3.7            0.5
Maize                                     13.0     20.7            7.7
Potatoes                                 55.5      68.4           12.9
Vegetables                                27.6     34.5            6.9
Pulses                                    2.0       2.3            0.3
Fruits                                     9.9     13.0            3.1
Coffee                                    0.3       0.3            --
Alfalfa                                  20.0      24.0            4.0
Fodder                                  136.0    154.0           118.0
/1   46,000 ha shown in Table 5.2
Fruit Production
5.08      Fruit production under SURDP II will be concentrated on about 1,600
small plots totalling not more than 1,300 ha, in two distinct areas: (a) the
high altitude areas, where a few deciduous species (peach, grapes, almond,
fig) are grown by most farmers with supplemental irrigation; large orchards
cannot be contemplated until further applied research is conducted as to the
effects of frost, wind and other environmental factors on available varieties;
(b) in low-altitude valleys with perennial irrigation for the production
of tropical fruits (bananas, citrus, mangoes, etc.). Seedlings and grafted
rootstock requirements, which would increase from 40,000 in the first year of
the project to 140,000 in the fourth, would continue to be provided from the
nurseries near Ibb and Taiz. With the collaboration of the ARS, research
and demonstration would be combined, especially in the forty proposed 0.1 ha
demonstration orchards. The establishment of six 0.5 ha nurseries in isolated
valleys would make seedlings more widely available to farmers and reduce
losses as a result of transport and excessive handling. Several LDAs have
agreed to make land available for these nurseries.
Mechanization
5.09      Agricultural mechanization is presently limited to land preparation,
transport, and to build and maintain irrigation basins. An estimated 1,500
tractors are operating in the Taiz and Ibb governorates, most of which were
imported in the last 5-6 years. On the basis of an estimated coverage of 50
ha per tractor per annum, land preparation is mechanized on not more than
75,000 ha in the entire region. Although labor shortages are conducive to
further mechanization, it is limited by topography, terraces, small plots and



- 36 -
fragmented holdings. During 1976-79, ACB provided credit for the purchase of
about 40 tractors per year in the Ibb and Taiz governorates, or about 20% of
the total number sold. Even though as many as 500 additional tractors could
be used in the region, based on the assumption that 100,000 ha are suitable
for mechanized operations, the project would provide ACB with funds to provide
credit for only 100 tractors and implements.
5.10      The use of combine harvesters is more restricted by local conditions
than the use of tractors. However, the feasibility of using small, portable
sorghum and wheat threshers has been tested by the Yemeni-British Agriculture
Engineering Project (YBAEP). Investigations on the availability of an inter-
mediate size machine offering a grain cleaning and straw chopping facility
are under way. Other small machinery will be field tested by ARS, in col-
laboration with YBAEP, expanding on earlier trials. Under the Project's
equipment component for the extension service, provision is made for the
purchase of low h.p. machinery to be used for demonstrations once such equip-
ment has been adequately tested. The extension service, with the technical
support of the YBAEP, will expand its assistance to advise farmers on the
choice, use and maintenance of appropriate labor-saving machinery and equip-
ment. Selective mechanization of cereal production is expected to ease
considerably the labor shortage during the planting and harvest periods, and
thereby reduce unit costs of production of farmers. For horticultural crops,
for which mechanization is more difficult, labor shortages have not been as
acute as for cereals because, even with the high wages paid to laborers (YRls
60-80/day), these crops are sufficiently profitable to pay the high wages of
rural laborers, and no absolute shortage of rural labor is anticipated in the
future.
B. Livestock Production
Dairy Cattle Improvements
5.11      A contribution will be made under the project to demonstrate on
about 50 farms that the productivity of native cattle can be increased
by growing small plots of forage under irrigation, supplementing rations
with mixed feed, and improving breeding, housing and management of small 3-4
cow units. The land area and the number of animals involved are small: Each
farms would have about 0.5 ha of irrigated alfalfa for three adult cows and
two heifers, 6r a total of 25 ha of irrigated forage and 250 animals during
the project. In addition to upgrading native cattle through breeding with
Friesian bulls purchased from the Yerim Dairy Farm, yearly milk production
per cow is expected to increase from the present 360 kg to about 1,960 kg.
Because of the small number of farms involved and the demonstration purpose
of this activity, the increase in milk production, higher calving rates and
animal quality, are not expected to result in large increases in aggregate
milk and meat production.



- 37 -
Bee-keeping and Honey Production
5.12      The replacement of traditional bee-hives by the modern one would be
achieved by consolidating the nuclei from 2-3 traditional hives into one.
Each of the contemplated 320 producers would then have about 20 modern hives
compared with  O-75 traditional ones at present.  By using modern hives, wax
comb, feed, medication, honey extractors, queens and simple hand tools, and
periodically replacing queens, aggregate honey production is expected to
increase from about 48-50,000 kg at present to about 120,000 kg at full
development, on or about the eighth year.
C. Marketing and Prices
Demand and Marketing
5.13      Among the commodities produced in the project area YAR is self-
sufficient only in sorghum, barley and potatoes. For all others, including
animal feed, YAR has become increasingly dependent on imports (para. 1.06) due
to the rapid growth in demand for food. Consequently, the project's output
would have a ready market. Growth in demand has been particularly dramatic
for meat, fruits and vegetables. In the period 1971-77, imports of vegetables
and fruits increased by 11 and 6.5 times respectively; while in the same
period, production of these crops increased by 46% and 80%. Since income
elasticity for these crops is relatively high, demand is expected to remain
strong in the future. The irrigated and high rainfall areas of Southern
Uplands, combined with the Tihama irrigated areas, are expected to make some
contribution to satisfy increasing domestic requirements in the future. Since
the additional production generated by the project is small relative to
present import levels no major import substitution is contemplated at this
time.
5.14      No major difficulties are foreseen in marketing the estimated
increase in crop and livestock products that is not primarily used for sub-
sistence consumption (e.g. barley). In YAR marketing of agricultural com-
modities is essentially a private sector activity. The project area is served
by an effective network of traditional markets through which most of the
marketable output would be sold for both local and outside markets. There are
weekly markets in each Nahya, numerous wholesalers in Taiz and Ibb, and many
traders working in these markets connect villages with the main towns. The
channels employed depend on the amount and kind of product, on the means of
transportation available and on the distance to the nearest markets or whole-
salers. The market can even handle highly perishable products such as tomatoes
adequately, albeit not without logistical difficulties.  For example, qat, a
perishable product which is widely produced in Taiz and Ibb, is distributed
nationwide on the same day as it is picked. Poor roads frequently hinder
marketing, but road access and quality are being improved with the ongoing
expansion and improvement of access roads by LDAs (para. 2.14).



- 38 -
Prices
5.15      There are no price controls on agricultural commodities in YAR
except for cotton, imported wheat, wheat flour, rice and sugar. Market prices
for producers and consumers are much higher than those in the world market for
all commodities. This is due to scarce domestic supply, high cost of produc-
tion and inefficiencies in market organization as well as consumer preference.
The population of YAR consistently expresses its preference for domestically
produced goods, especially perishables, by its willingness to pay premium
(20-100%) prices for local products, e.g. wheat, chicken, eggs, meat and
honey. Prices assumed for the economic analysis of the project (Annex 2,
Table 12) took these factors into account. Financial prices are based on
actual 1979 farmgate prices prevailing in the project area. Economic prices
of traded goods are based on projected international prices; for non-traded
goods, local prices were adjusted by the standard conversion factor, except
for alfalfa, honey and chicken which were priced to reflect consumer prefer-
ences for local products.
D. Taxes and Cost Recovery
5.16      The project is expected to generate public revenue to recover
part of the project costs through the Zakat--originally a religious tithe--
which amounts to 10% of the gross value of crop production except in well
irrigated areas where it is reduced to 5%. Special rates apply to livestock,
which are treated as property rather than income. As indicated in paragraph
2.18, 25% of the Zakat remains with the central government and 75% is returned
to the LDA's to finance rural infrastructure projects. Additional Zakat
generated as a result of the project Ibb and Taiz would amount to approximately
YRls 16 million annually at full development. The present value of the total
amount of Zakat generated during the life of the project could amount to YRls
73 million, based on a 12% discount rate. This would represent 39% of the
present value of directly productive project investment and operating costs
(YRls 187 million) over a 20-year period. Actual Zakat revenue, however,
would probably be less (e.g. 30%), due to collection inefficiencies, with a
corresponding decrease in project cost recovery through Zakat.
5.17      Cost recovery for agricultural services and other components could
be increased if charges were imposed for veterinary services and investment in
village water supply systems. Since the main purpose of veterinary services
is to control contagious diseases and parasites, charges would not be ap-
propriate until an effective demand for these services is created. Concerning
village water supply schemes, at least 40% of the cost of investment and
annual operations and maintenance charges are borne by the rural population
benefitting from such investment (paras. 4.26 and 4.29).



- 39 -
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Beneficiaries
6.01      Through its various components the proposed project would cumula-
tively benefit about 60,000 rural families or almost 350,000 people, including
about 25,000 families reached under SURDP I now in progress. The total repre-
sents about one third of the rural population of Ibb and Taiz Governorates.
The new village water supply schemes alone would benefit about 35,000 families,
and additional crop production and livestock services would reach about 35,000.
By and large all beneficiaries have incomes lower than the 1978 estimated per
capita GNP of US$580, 1/ though above the 1978/79 estimated relative poverty
level of about US$170 per capita per annum for rural areas in YAR as a whole.
In Ibb and Taiz Governorates, the population in relative rural poverty is
concentrated in low rainfall areas. In high rainfall and irrigated areas,
1979 per capita GNP is estimated to range from US$280 to US$600.
6.02      As a result of the project farm incomes would increase by an aver-
age of about 7% annually, as illustrated in Table 6.1 for five farm types.
Increases in income are achieved mainly through a higher rate of input appli-
cation, a limited shift to higher-value crops, and a greater use of partial
mechanization in the high-rainfall zone. In the low-rainfall area farm income
increases are generally limited to holdings which have access to irrigation
water, since the only sources of improvement are expected to be the use of
pesticides and, in some areas, partial mechanization (tillage, seeding and
threshing). On farms with a limited resource base (Model B, and Model E),
incremental income may be negative for the first few years before reaching the
levels shown in Table 6.1.
Economic Benefits
6.03      With  the assumptions made in segregating SURDP II from SURDP I to
estimate the costs and benefits of SURDP II, its economic rate of return is
estimated at 23%. In estimating the economic costs and benefits attributable
to SURDP II it was also assumed that present distortions in price and wages
would continue. Therefore rural labor was priced at its present market wage
rate of YRls 60-80/day, which reflects its opportunity costs, and product
prices were corrected as indicated in Annex 2, Table 12. Benefits which could
not be quantified were excluded, namely, (i) the effects of livestock extension
and vaccination on livestock health and production; (ii) benefits from demon-
stration projects such as the feed mill and the 50 dairy farms; (iii) benefits
from improved water supply because of the difficulty implicit in assigning a
monetary value for water used for home consumption; (iv) improved road
maintenance; and (v) long-term demonstration effects on the agriculture of the
region as a whole.
6.04      The estimated economic rate of return is not greatly affected by
major increases in costs and/or reduction in net benefits. The net present
value, over 20 years, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12%, is
YRls 185 million, which provides adequate safety against most risks. The
economic rate of return, however, is sensitive to a combination of delays in
project implementation and increased costs, as shown in Table 6.2.
1/   Using World Bank methodology.



- 40 -
Table 6.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED FARM INCOME LEVELS
AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
(2)
(1)       :     Future               (3)
Present          income at           Percent
Farm Type                           Income        full development       increase
_---- 000 YRls-   ---                   %
Model A                              15.7                25.7               64
High plains,
3 ha owner-
operated of which
2.5 ha rainfed
and 0.5 ha pump-
irrigated
Model B                               5.3                 8.9               68
Low rainfall area
2.0 ha rainfed,
rented, 0.5 ha
stream-irrigated
(owned)
Model C                               7.4                15.4              108
High raintall area,
2 ha owner-operated
Model D                              12.4                20.2               63
Honey production
unit, 20 hives
Model E                               7.2                10.8               50
3-cow dairy farm,
0.6 ha owner-operated



- 41 -
Table 6.2:  SENSITIVITY OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Best estimate                                23.4%
Yields or prices down by 20%                 20%
Costs up by 20%                              21%
Two year delay                               18%
Two year delay and costs up by 50%           13%
Project Risks
6.05      Achievement of project objectives will depend on minimizing some
risk factors which could restrict the farmers' opportunities and ability for
adopting the simple innovations contemplated in the project. The main risks
are:
(a) Due to the chronic manpower shortages in YAR and the erosive effects
of inflation on salaries paid by Government entities, the project
might find it difficult to employ and retain a sufficient number of
trained staff and expatriate technicians to cover the needs of the
project. This difficulty was encountered under SURDP I (para. 2.21)
with a resulting loss of momentum in certain activities. At the
urging of IDA and other co-financiers the Government has recently
taken some steps to raise salaries of both expatriates and counter-
part staff to compensate for cost of living increases. As a result
the expatriate staffing of SURDP I has been brought to near full
strength. Moreover, as indicated in para. 1.11, the manpower
shortage is expected to be less acute in a few years when graduates
from bilateral and multilateral training programs and from the Ibb
Agricultural School become available, and with the incentives
provided by training programs under the project.
(b) The failure to alter crop-sharing arrangements to provide tenants
with a greater share of income derived from the use of modern inputs
and medium and long term investment would restrict the number of low
income beneficiaries from agricultural extension and credit.
(c) The possibility of a higher rate of inflation than the one fore-
cast (para. 3.15) is minimized, based on the experience of SURDP I.
First, the combined project area of SURDP I and II, i.e. 86,000
ha, should be easily attainable with the extension and credit
provided, in light of the momentum of SURDP I. Second, with net
present value (NPV), at a 12% discount rate, representing 141% of
present project costs, base costs of project management and agri-
cultural services would have to increase much more than the inflation
forecast and product prices remain the same to reduce NPV to 0.
This is most unlikely since a higher rate of inflation than forecast
would most severely affect the village water supply component, and
to a smaller extent other construction which represents only 5% of
total project costs; and, third, most construction would be done
with internationally procured materials and would require only small
local contracts phased over time during the first three years.



- 42 -
6.06      Other risks usually associated with rural development projects are
minimized or have been taken into account. More specifically, yields and
area projections were conservatively estimated, and changes in land use are
minor; the project entity is a part of the Ministry of Agriculture and, there-
fore, there exist no organizational complexities; and the project is the
continuation of an ongoing effort in the same region.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to
in Chapters III, IV and V of this report, and subject to the conditions of
effectiveness described in paragraph 3.16, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of SDRs 13.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent) on standard
terms to the Yemen Arab Republic.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
CYDA        L  _  2  Inter Ministerial              Minister of Agriculture   L
Committee
Agricultural Credit
Bank (ACB)
Agricultural                 Southern Uplands
Research Station  _        Rural Development Project
(Taiz)                         Manager            - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _                4- -J
Governors (Ibb         -   -                                          Management and Technical
and Tai                                                                     Advisor
|                                 [ ~~~~~~~~~~~Monitoring &                                                                              |
|                                 |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Evaluation 
I                                                                           .I                                                                        I
I                                                                                                                                       r-~ J      J
I        Forestry ~ ~~~Ariulurl                   nimai Health              enan          Rura lEnfrastr ucture     Agricultural
I                 Forestry           Social Services      & Producti on       [                     RuralEngineering             Credit
Governorate Coordinating
Councils (GCC), Ibb & Taiz |
IBB Governorate                                                     |         TAIZ                                   zC             bb ACE
Director                                                                 Governorate                              Branch          Branch
Local Development
Associations (LDAs)      I
|          U   ~~~~Engineering            Nreis || Egneig                                                U         Nueis |                      ||
Village Development                 _
Committees (VOC)                                                             ACB
|Animal Health       1      1 xtens on                 rIAnimal Health                        1        Extension  |Sae  Sls 
|  & Production  m    Services            Sls||& Pr oducti on    m                             Services     r       1     Agns ||           get 
|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gnt                                                                             Agents X|
| Field    |        lc   entr               Fie-,ld                         Firld            Blc CenteFildr
|Extension                n (Etnion &  H   Extenson  ||Extension                              (Extension &            x Etnsion|
, s]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t'
|   Offices   |   VeterinaryServices)   |  Offices |                |  Offices   |VeterinaryrServices                                          a O s-|
Offce                                                                        Offices
World Bank -21355



- 44 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Project Costa
Local    Foreijn    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
--YRls Million -------           ------us$ Million--------
Project Management and Engineering
Local Establishment                                 12.67       -        12.67         2.81       -         2.81
Expatriate Staff and Training                        1.60      6.17       7.77         0.35      1.37       1.72
Transport Vehicles and Office Equipment                -       1.41        1.41         -        0.32       0.32
Maintenance and Operation - Transport                0.88      0.88        1.76        0.20      0.19       0.39
- Other                   1.40      -          1.40        0.31       -          0.31
Subtotal                                          16.55      8.46      25.01         3.67     1.88        5.55
Rural Water Supply Schemes
Tubewell Schemes                                    16.56    38.64       55.20         3.68     8.59       12.27
Dugwell Schemes                                      5.55      5.56      11.11         1.23      1.24       2.47
Spring Schemes                                       7.73      7.72      15.45         1.72     1.71        3.43
Subtotal                                          29.84    51.92       81.76         6.63    11.54       18.17
Headquarters for Research Station Staff
Land                                                 0.40       -         0.40         0.09       -         0.09
Civil Works                                          2.71      4.07       6.78         0.60     0.90        1.50
Furnishings                                           -        0.28       0.28          -       0.06        0.06
Subtotal                                           3.11     4.35        7.46         0.69     0.97        1.66
Extension Services
Staff and Training                                  21.81      6.51      28.32         4.85     1.44        6.29
Civil Works                                          6.25      6.26      12.51         1.39     1.39        2.78
Equipment and Supplies                               1.06      5.55       6.61         0.24      1.23       1.47
Maintenance and Operation - Transport                1.15      1.15       2.30         0.25      0.26       0.51
Subtotal                                          30.27    19.47       49.74         6.73     4.32       11.05
Animal Health and Production Services
Local and Expatriate Staff                           6.24      2.43       8.67         1.39     0.54        1.93
Equipment and Supplies                                -        2.34       2.34          -       0.52        0.52
Operational Cost                                     0.12      0.11       0.23         0.03     0.02        0.05
Peed Mill                                            0.42      0.42       0.84         0.09      0.09       0.18
Subtotal                                           6.78     5.30       12.08         1.51     1.17        2.18
Agricultural Credit
ACB Staff and Training                               2.82      1.53       4.35         0.63     0.34        0.97
Offices and Stores                                   1.93      4.49       6.42         0.43     1.00        1.43
Equipment                                             -        1.61       1.61          -       0.36        0.36
Operational Cost                                     0.30      0.30       0.60         0.06     0.07        0.13
Medium-Term Credit                                   4.00    15.99       19.99         0.89     3.55        4.44
Short-Term Credit                                    1.69    12.84       14.58         0.38     2.86        3.24
Subtotal                                          10.74    36.81       47.55         2.39     8.18       10.57
Feasibility Study (Wadi Jawf)                            -       1.80        1.80         -        0.40       0.40
Bilharzia Control
Staff and Operational Expenses                       0.84       -         0.84         0.19       -         0.19
Equipment and Supplies                                -        0.36       0.36          -       0.08        0.08
Subtotal                                           0.84      0.36       1.20         0.19     0.08        0.27
Base Cost                                         98.13   128.47      226.69        21.81    28.54       50.35
Contingencies
Physical                                             5.51    11.13       16.64         1.22      2.47       3.69
Price                                               83.92    40.10      124.02        18.65      8.91      27.56
Subtotal                                          89.43    51.23      140.66        19.87    11.38       31.25
Total Cost                                       187.56   179.70      367.26        41.68    39.92       81.60



-45 -
AeT7EX 2
Table 24
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUThERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVEOWPMET PROJECT (SUEDP ID
Schedule of Annual ExPenditures
Year I                Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4                      Total
Local    Foreign      Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign      Local    Foreign       Local + Foreign    Foreig.
-  __________________--------------------------YRIS millio--          ----------         --------------------------
Pro1eet Manacanent and Enoineerine
Local and Expatriate Staff                     3.34      1.48       4.09       1.850       4.14       1.80        2.70       1.09            20.44            6.17
Tranapert Vehiclea and Office Equipment         -        0.36         -        0.69          -        0.36         -          -               1.41             1.41
opre-tional . apeesen                          0.48      0.16       0.5         0.22       0.64       0.28        0.58       0.22             3.16            0.88
Subtotal                                     3.82     2.00        4.67       2.71        4.78       2.44        3.28       1.31            25.01            8.46
Contingen.iea
PFyninnl                                     0.05     0.05        0.06       0.09        0.06       0.06        0.06       0.02             0.45            0.22
Price                                        0.91     0.27        2.14       0.66        3.76       0.84        3.76      0.59             12.93            2.36
* Total                                                                      4.78      2.32       6.07       3.46        0.60       3.34        7.10       1.92            38.39           11.04
Roral Rater Sopply Sehesne
Tcbauell Soheeas                               2.76      6.44       4.42       10.30       4.96      11.60        4.42      10.30            55.20           38.64
Daugell Sche-eo                                1.11      1.11        1.66      1.67        1.39       1.39        1.39       1.39            11.11            5.56
sprinS Sac-ene                                 1.SS      1.54        2.32      2.32        1.93       1.93        1.93       0.93            15.45            7.72
Subtotal                                     5.42     9.09        6.40      14.29        8.28      14.92        7.74      13.62            01.76           51.92
contingeneies
Physicol                                     0.54     0.91        0.84       1.43        0.03       1.49        0.77       1.36             8.17            0.19
Priao                                        2.74      1.50       7.21       3.77       10.66       5.59       14.07      6.74             52.28           17.60
Total                                        8.70    11.50       16.45      19.49       19.77      22.00       22.58     21.72            142.21           74.71
Heodq-arters far Rieo-rch StOtion Staff
Load                                           0.40       -           -          -          -          -           -          -               0.40              -
Civil W-rts                                    0.47      0.70       1.08       1.62        1.16       1.75         -          -               6.78            4.07
F-rnishings                                    _         _            -        0.28         -          _           -          _               0.28            0.28
Subtotel                                     0.87     0.70        1.08       1.90        1.16       1.75         -          -               7.46            4.35
c..tiage.cies
Physicol                                     0.09     0.07        0.11       0.19        0.12       0.17         -          -               0.75            0.43
Priee                                        0.44     0.12        0.93       0.50        1.50       0.65         -          -               4.14            1.27
Total                                        1.40     0.89        2.12       2.59        2.78       2.57         -        _                12.35            6.05
Etatelico Seovicen
Local end  Sopatriato 8tsfi                    4.76      2.25        5.55      2.27        5.59       1.40        5.91       0.59            28.32            6.51
Civil Works                                    1.56      1.56       3.13       3.13        1.56       1.57         -          -              12.51            6.26
Equipoent and Scppliea                         0.46      2.40       0.30       1.60        0.18       0.92        0.12       0.63             6.61            5.55
Vehicle Operoti.onI Ccot'                      0.20      0.20       0.28       0.27        0.32       0.33        0.353      3.35             2.30            1.15
subrotal                                     6.98     6.41        9.26       7.27        7.65       4.22        6.38       1.57           49.74            19.47
Cant inge-eiea
Physical                                     0.22     0.42        0.37       0.50        0.21       0.28       0.05       3.10              2.15            1.30
Price                                        2.07      1.02       5.73       1.82        6.63       1.53        6.77      0.75             26.32            5.12
Total                                        9.27      7.85      15.36       0>.59      14.49       6.03       13.20       2.42            70.21           25.89
Anioal ealIth ond produetin S-eryies
Lcoal end Expatriate 8tatf                     1.47      0.81        1.67      0.81        1.67       0.81        1.43        -               8.67            2.43
Equipmeet end Sapplies                          -        0.82         -        0.68         -         0.42         -         0.42             2.34            2.34
oper-ticoal Coat                               0.06      0.06        0.12      0.12        0.12       0.12        0.12       0.12             0.84            0.42
Feed Mill                                      0.12      0.11         _          -           -        _            _          -               0.23            0-11
Subttotl                                     1.65      1.80        1.79      1.61        1.79       1.35        1.55       0.54            12.08            5.30
Cattinge-cie-
Physicol                                     0.02     0.10        0.12       0.08        0.01       0.05        0.01      0.05              0.44            0.28
Price                                        0.38     0.28        0.96       0.40        1.34       3.48        0.21      0.26              4.31            1.42
Tatol                                        2.05      2.18       2.67       2.09        3.14       1.06        1.77      0.85             16.83            7.00
Agric-lt-ral Credit
ACB StoOl sad Training                         0.43      0.54        0.80      0.40        0.80       0.40        0.80       0.18             4.35            1.53
Office and  t.res                              1.92      4.50                    -           -         -           -                          6.42            4.49
Equipment                                       -        0.08         -        0.77         -         0.76         -          -               1.61            1.61
Operational Expensen                           0.04      0.04       0.07       0.07        0.09       0.09        0.10       0.10             0.60            0.30
mediua-Term  Credit                            0.66      2.64        0.79       3.16       0.97       3.86        1.58       6.33            19.99           15.99
Shart-Term  Credit                             0.21      1.80       0.26       2.31        0.32       2.80        0.90       5.03            14.58           12.89
Sobtaoal                                     3.26      9.60       1.92       6.71        2.18       7 91        3.33      12.51            47.55           36.81
Contingen-ies
Phy=i-al                                     0.30     o 97        0.19       0.67        0.19       0.79        0.29       1.25             4.65            3.68
Price                                        1.90      1.54        1.46      1.68        2.52       2.02        5.44       6.20            23.56           12.24
Total                                        5.46    12.19        3.57       9.06        4.89      11.52        9.11     19.96             75.76           52.73
Fe-aibility Study (Wadi Jowf)                     -        0.90         -         0.90         -         -           -          -               0.90            0.90
Bilhareic Control
Stcff and Op-rational cpeop es                0.28                  0.28                  0.28        -           -          -               0.84
Equiprent cad 8upplis                            _       0.113                 013           -        0.1          -          -               0.36            0.36
Subtatel                                     0.28      0.13       0.28       0.13        0.28       0.13         -          -               1.20            0.36
Conting-nies-                                                                                                                                                   .0
Phycicol                                      -       0.01          -        0.01         -         0.01                                    0.03
Price                                        0.06      .-32       0.13       0.03        0.20       0.04                                    0 -  5.48       0.09
Tatel                                        0.34      0.16       0.41       0.17        0.40       3.15         _          _               1.71            0.48



- 46 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 2B
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC; (SURDP II)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                 to End of Quarter
US$ million
1980/81
June 30, 1981                                  0.5
1981/82
September 30, 1981                             1.2
December 31, 1981                              2.2
March 31, 1982                                 3-3
June 30, 1982                                  4.4
1982/83
September 30, 1982                             5.5
December 31, 1982                              6.6
March 31, 1983                                  7.7
June 30, 1983                                  8.8
1983/84
September 30, 1983                             9.9
December 31, 1983                              11.0
March 31, 1984                                 12.1
June 30, 1984                                  13.2
1984/85
September 30, 1984                             14.3
December 31, 1984                              15.4
March 31, 1985                                 16.5
June 30, 1985                                  17.0



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Cost Estimate /i
Project Management and Engineering
Cost Per        Before Project         Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4
Person/Year        No.   Cost         No.   Cost        No.   Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost       Total      Local      Foreign
Project Management
Project Manager                                                     84             1       84         1       84        1       84        1     84        1      84        336        336            -
Management and Technical Advisor (E)                               240              1     240         1      240        1      240        1    240       1/2    120         840         -          840
Financial Advisor (E)                                              180             1      180         1      180        1      180       1      180       1     180         720         -          720
Finance Officer                                                     48             1       48         1       48        1       48       1       48       1      48         192       192             -
Monitoring and Evaluation Expert (E)                               180              -       -         I       90        1      180       1      180       1      90        540          -          540
Monitoring Supervisors                                              48              -        -        1       48        2       96       2       96       2       96        336       336             -
Administration Officers                                             48             1       48         2       96        2       96       2       96       2       96        384       384             -
Purchase Officers                                                   48             1       48         1       48        1       48       1       48       1      48         192       192             -
Interpretors/Translators                                            36             -        -         1       36        2       72       2       72       1      36         216       216            -
Secretarial and Clerical Staff                                      27            19      513        19      513       22      594      24      648      24     648      2,403    2,403               -
Drivers                                                             18            22      396        16      288       16      288      16      288      16     288       1,152    1,152              -
Guards, Messengers etc.                                             18            12      216        12      216       15      270      15      270      15      270      1,026     1,026             -
Subtotal                                                                                               1,887             2,196            2,250            2,004      8,337    6,237         2,100
Engineering
Chief Engineer (E)                                                 240              1     240         1      240        1      240       1      240      1/2    120         840         -          840
Office Engineer (E)                                                135              -       -         1      135        1      135       1     135        1     135        540          _          540
Civil Engineers (E)                                                135              2     270         3      405        4     540        4     540        2     270      1,755          -        1,755             4:
Assistant Civil Engineers                                           72             2      144         3      216        4      288       4      288       2      144        936       936             -
Assistant Mechanical Engineers                                      72              -        -        1       72        1       72       1       72       1       72        288       288             -
Hydrogeologist (E)                                                 180              1     180         1      180        1      180       1      180       1      180        720         -          720
Geophysicist Technician                                             60              -       -         1       60        1       60       1       60       1       60        240       240             -
Engineering Supervisors                                             60             4      240         4      240        4      240       4      240       2      120        840       840             -
Transport Officer                                                   60              -       -         1       60        1       60       1       60       1       60        240       240             -
Chief Surveyor                                                      60              1      60         1       60        1       60       1       60       1       60        240       240             -
Surveyors                                                           48             3      144         3      144        4      192       4      192       4      192        720       720             -
Work Foremen                                                        48              3     144         6      288       10      480      10      480       3      144      1,392     1,392             -
Mechanics                                                           48              2      96         3      144        4      192       4      192       2       96        624       624             -
Drilling Supervisors                                                48              1      48         1       48        2       96       2       96       1       48        288       288             -
Draftsmen                                                           48              3     144         3      144        4      192       4      192       2       96        624       624             -
Training (48 man-months)                                                                                       -               108              108                -        216         -          215
Housing and Utilities Allowance to Expatriates                                                               480               560              560                -      1,600    1.600
Subtotal                                                                                                2.916            3,695            3,695            1u797    12.103    8.032           4.071
Equipmnent and Operational Cost
Transport and other Equipment                                                                                360               690              360                -      1,410         -        1,410
Operational Cost - Transport                                                                                 330               440              550              440      1,760       880          880
Operational Cost - Other                                                                                     320               360              360              360      1.400     1,440
Subtotal                                                                                                1.010            1.490            1,670              800      4.570    2.280          2.290
TOTAL                                                                                                   5.813             7.381           7 215            4 601    25.010   16.549           8.461
Local                                                                                                   3,818            4,668            4,777            3,286               16,549
Foreign                                                                                                 1,995             2,713           2,438            1,315                              8,461
/)  All costs are in YRls'OOO.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURD? II)
Agri-ultural Extension:   Staff Requirements and Costs
Cost per          Before
pereon/year        Priject            Year 1            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4                Total            Foreign Exchange
000 YRlS       No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost         000 YRls  ODD US$    7%          000 US$
000 YRis
Expatriate Staff
Director/Senior Advisor                       240           1      240        1       240        1       240       -        -         -                    480       107        100         107
Senior extension specialist                   180          5       900        7    1,260         7    1,260        5       900        3       540        3,960       880        100         880
Senior home econ. ext. specialist             180          1,      180        2       360        2      360         2      360        -        -         1,080       240        1oo         240
Extension training specialist                 180          2        - /I      1       180        1      180        -        -         -        -           360        80       100           80
Part-time trainers honororia                    -           -       -         -        30        -       30        -        45        -        -           105        23        -            -
Consultancies /2                                -           -       -         -        90        -        90        -       20        -        -           200        44       100           44
Housing allowance                              -           -        -         -      488         -      488        -        -         -        -           976       217        -            -
National Staff
Co-director/Director, Taiz Ex. Serv.           60           1       60        1        60        1        60        1       60        1        60           240        53        -           -
Director, Ibb Ext. Serv.                        60          -       -         1        60        1        60        1       60        1        60          240         53        _           _       I
Extension and home econ. officer               48          5       240        7       336        8      384        9       432        9       432        1,584       352         -           -
Training and audiovisual aids officer          48           -        -        1        48        1        48       1        48        1        48          192        43         -           -
Extension supervisor                            27         10      270       10       270       14      378       18       486       18       486        1,620       360         -           _
Extensionist                                    20         45      900       85    1,700        90    1,800        95    1,900       95    1,900         7,300    1,622          -           -
Home econ. extensionist                         20         20      400       35       700       40      800       40       800       40       800        3,100       688         -           -
Administrative officer                         48           -       -         1        48        1        48        1       48        1        48           192        43        -           -
Clerk typist                                    27          1       27        2        54        2        54        2       54        2        54           216        48        -           -
Driver                                          18         11      198       11       198       11       198      11       198       11       198          792        176        -           -
Nursery technician                              18         3        81        3        81        4       108       4       108        4       108          405         90        -           -
Nursery propagator                              18          2       36        4        72        5        90       6       108        6       108          378        84         -           -
Nursery laborer                                 18         4        72        5        90        6       108       8       144       10       180          522       116         -           -
Nursery guard                                   18          2       36        4        72        6       108       8       144        8       144          468       104         -           -
Incentives Leading Farmers                      4         50       200       75       300      150      600      200       800      300    1,200         2,900       644         -           -
Travel Agr. Res. Serv. Staff                     -        10        25        -        25       -        25        -       25        -        25          100         22        -           -
Staff training /3                                -          -      150        -       250        -      300         -      250        -       109           909       202        24          96
Total                                                       4,015             7,012              7,817              6,990             6,500        28,319    6,293         23      1,447
/1 Two specialists financed by UNDP/WB assisted Agricultural Research Project.
/2  Home economics extension training:  3+3+2 weeks
Audiovisual aids programming and film strip preparation:  4+4 weeks                                                                                                                              H
.Fruit tree propagation and nursery management: 3+3 weeks
Rate:  $250/day plus travel cost.
/3  In-service training allowances,  25x4 at Rls 1000 per 2 mo.=Rls  100.000.
Extensionist training allowances, 3 years, 25 trainees/yr at Rls 5000=Rls 375.000.
External college-level training at Rls 7200 per 6 mo. for 72 man/mo.=$86,400=Rls 388,800.
External extension seminars 5x20 days at $2000=$10,000=Rls 45,000.
4



*
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND S0UTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Animal Health/Animal Production Services
Unit                         Project Year
Number            price            1           2            3            4           Total
YRIs            -------         YRls'000 --------------          (YRls'000)
Staff
Senior Expatriate Animal Health/
Animal Production Officer                             1             225,000          225          225          225                        675
Expatriate Animal Health/Animal Production
Officer                                               1             180,000          180          180          180            -           540
Counterpart Veterinary Officers                        2              60,000          120          120          120            -           480
Veterinary Assistants                               8 yr 1,
10 yr 2.          27,000          216          270          270          270          1,026
Vaccinators                                        15 yr 1,.
20 yr 2.           18,000         270          360          360          360          1,350
Laboratory Technicians                                 2              27,000           54           54           54          54            216
Animal Production Technicians                       6 yr 1,           27,000
8 yr 2.           27,000          162         216          216          216            810
Drivers                                                6              18,000          108          108          108         108            432      to
Housing Allowance                                                                     240          240          240            -           720
Subtotal                                                                       1,575       1.773        1.773        1.128          6,249
Expatriate Senior Forage and Range officer             1             225,000          225          225          225            -           675
Expatriate Forage and Range Officer                    1             180,000          180          180          180            -           540
Counterpart Forage and Range Officer                   2              60,000          120          120          120         120            480
Laborers                                              10              18,000          180          180          180         180            720
Subtotal                                                                         705          705         705          300          2,415
Equipment
Station Wagon (4-wheel drive)                          6              46,000          138          138            -            -           276
Standard 4-wheel drive                                 2              40,000            -           80            _           -             80
Motorcycles                                           18               5,000           45           45            -            -             90
Mobile Clinic                                          1             170,000          170            =            -            -            170
Other Equipment                                        -                -              45            -            -            -            45
Subtotal                                                                         398         263             -           -            661
Other Supplies
Vaccines                                                                              200          200           200        200            800
Drugs                                                                                 150          150           150        150            600
Office Supplies                                                                        70           70            70          70           280
Subtotal                                                                         420         420           420         420          1.680
Operation of Vehicles
Cars                                                                                   72          144           144        144            504   X
Motorcycles and Mobile Clinic                                                          48           96            96          96            336  'n "
Subtotal                                                                         120          240           240        240            840



-50 -                                           ANNEX 2
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTBERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) Cost Estimates
Year
1        2         3        4       Total     Foreign Exchange
---------        (YRls'OOO)      ----------       %        US$
Staff
Senior Credit Advisor l/                           180       180       180      180
Livestock Credit Advisor2/                         225       225       225      -
Sub-Branch Managers (2) -                           60       120       120      120
Cashiers and Accountants (2ea)                      48        96        96       96
Senior Loan Officers (2)                            48        96        96       96
Credit Supervisors (2)                              36        72        72       72
Clerk/Typists (4)                                   54       108       108      108
Messengers (4)                                      44        88        88       88
Drivers (2)                                         44        44        44       44
Store Clerks and Laborers (8)                       88       176      176       176                 _          _
Subtotal                                         827    1,205    1,205        980    4,217       33         310
Offices and Stores
Offices (4) and Living2Quarters for Managers
at 2 locations2(600 m  @ YRLS 2,200)            1,320
Stores (3,000 m  @ YRls 1,700)                   5.100      _                    _     _            _
Subtotal                                       6,420        -         -        -     6,420       70       1,000
Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles (6)                          80        80        80
Motorcycles (4)                                      -        15        -
Subtotal                                          80        95       80        -       255      100          56
Operation and Maintenance                              60       90       120      120
- Miscellaneous                                       25        50        60       80
Subtotal                                          85       140      180       200       605      50          70
Office Equipment and Furnishings                       -       675       675       -      1,350     100         300
Inservice Training (FAO/EDI)                         135        -                  -        135     100          30
Loans (Incremental)
Medium-Term                                      3,300    3,950    4,830    7,910   19,990         80       3,550
Short-Term                                       2.090    2.570    3,120    6,800   14,580         88       2.860
Subtotal                                       5,390    6,520    7,950   14,710   34,570         83       6,410
Total                                         12940    863    10090   15890   47.555             77       8,180
1/ Previously assigned to SURDU under SURDP I.
2/  Only the additional required for sub-branches (Turbah and Yarim) and the stores
are included, since existing personnel are already employed under SURDP I.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOlUTbERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SUIRD? I)
ACB Inout and Short-Term Financine Requirements
Year (With Proiect
Unit Price         Before Project                    1                           2                           3                           4                    Total (Incremental)
(YRls'000)        tons     YRls'000         tons       YRls'000         tons       YRIs'000         tons       YRls'000         tons       YR18'000          YR1'000       US$'000
1. Input Requirements
Fertilizer                              1.6           3,800      6,080           5,000      8,000           6,000       9,600            7,000      11,200           8,000       12,800
Chemicals                              55.0               4.5      248               6.0       330               8.0      440               11.0        605             15.0        825
Cereal Seeds                            3.2              72        230             140         448             240        768              370        1,184            550        1,760
Seed Potatoes                           5.0             200      1,000             250      1,250             450       2,250              750       3,750           1,300        6,500
Vegetable Seed                        220.0               0.7      154               1.0       220               1.4      308                1.9        418              2.5        550
Subtotal                                                      1,712                      10,248                      13,366                       17,157                       22,935
bliscellaneous                                                     771                       1.025                      1.337                         1,716                       4,998
Total                                                         8.483                      11273                       1                            18,863                       27933
2. Funding Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                                    - ,
75%2 of Total (Rounded)                                         6,362                       8,455                      11,027                       14,147                       20,950
Incremental                                                                                 2,090                       2,570                         3,120                       6,800           14,580          3,240
1/  Includes an estimated 500 back-pack sprayers @ YRI8 450 and 100 back-pack motor sprayers @ YRIs 1,500.
2/  Assuming 9 month-turnover and no partial cash payment by borrowers.  Does not reflect purchases made
directly by farmers from cosmmercial sources.



- 52-                              ANNEX 2
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Cost Estimate - Bilharzia Control Program
Number     Annual Cost       Total
(YRls 000)
Staff
Extension/ Veterinary Technicians(Parttime)50              180           540
Sanitary Assistants                           2             14            42
Laboratory Assistants                          2            14            42
Medical Assistant                              1             36          108
Driver                                        1             18            54
Subtotal                                                              786
Equipment
Vehicle (4-wheel drive) long wheel base        1                          46
Motorcycles                                    2                          10
Miscellaneous Equipment /1                    LS                          44
Subtotal                                                              100
Expendible Supplies
Molluscicides and Drugs
Bayluscide, 3 metric tons                                                148
Drugs /1                                                                 112
Subtotal                                                              260
Operational Charges of Vehicles                                           60
/1 Additional to equipment and drugs provided by WHO.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Estimate of Costs
Rural Water Supply Schemes
Cost
Item Description                          Unit      Rate       Ouantity       Tubewell       Du_well_    Spring
-- - - -- - -YRis  --   - - - - -
1. Geophysical Studies and Site Selection
(for 60% of Tubewell Sites)                          No.      17,000          0.6         10,200           -             -
2.  Mobilization                                           No.     11,000          1           11,000           -             -
3.  Moving Drilling Rig from Site to Site                  No.     13,500          1           13,500           -             -
4.  Drilling Boreholes                                     M          900         80           72,000           -             -
5.  GRP Casing 8" Diameter                                M           840         81           68,040           -             -
6.  Developing Well                                        LS      14,000                      14,000           -             -
7.  Installing and Removing Test Pump                      No.     14,000          1           14,000           -             -
8.  Operating Pumping and Testing Well                     Hrs.       500         24           12,000            -            -
9.  Plugging and Capping Well                             M           180          5              900           -             -
10.  Disinfection of Well                                   No.        270          1              270           -             -
11.  Allowance for Dry Wells (307 of Geophysical                                                28,710           -             -
Studies Moving Rig and Drilling Boreholes)
12. Deepening and Cleaning Open Well                        LS      50,000          -              -           50,000          -
13.  Lining and Roofing                                     LS      50,000          -              -           50,000          -
14.  Protection Around Well                                 LS      25,000          -              -           25,000          -
15. Collection Tank                                                                                                         160,000
16.  Providing Pumping Set                                  No.                     1          100,000         80,000        80,000
17.  Installing Pumping Set                                 No.      7,000          1            7,000          7,000         4,000
18.  Pump House                                             No.     12,000          1           12,000         12,000        12,000
19.  Storage Reservoir                                      No.                     1          125,000         80,000       125,000
20.  Rising Main 3" Diameter GI Pipe                        M            60     2,000          120,000         45-000       120,000
21.  Rising Main 2" Diameter GI Pipe                        M           30      1,500                          45,000          -
22.  Chlorination Unit (at 257D of Sites)                   No.      6,000          0.25          ,500          1,500         1.,500
Subtotal                                                                               610.120        350 500       502,500
23. Distribution Lines:
3" Diameter                                          M            60      1,000           60,000           -             -
2" Diameter                                          M            30      2,000/1,000    60,000          30,000        60,000
1V" Diameter                                         M            25      2,000           50,000         50,000        50,000
I" Diameter                                          M            15      1,000           15,000         15,000        15,000
24.  Land for Construction                                Kasaba    10,000          5/3         30,000         30,000        50,000  
25.  Access Tracks to Construction Sites                    Km      30,000          1.5/1       45,000         30,000        45,000    p
26.  Distribution Troughs and Washing Platforms             No.      10,000         5           50.000         50.000        50.000
Subtotal                                                                               310.000        205,000       270.000
Unit Cost of Each Scheme                                                                  920,120        555Q500       77?2500
Number of Schemes                                                                              60              20           20
Total Cost of Schemes                                                               55207.2D00      11.110.000  15.450,000
Beneficiaries' Contributions /1                                                        21,600,000       4,900,000   6,200,000
39%             447         40%/
/1 Beneficiaries would provide 507% of the cost of Item 16 and full cost of Items 23 to 26.



_ 54 _                             ANNEX 2
Table 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Equipment and Supplies List
Quantity    Estimated Cost
(YRIs'000)
Project Management
Station Wagons                                       1               46
Standard 4-Wheel Drive                               8              320
Mini 4-Wheel Drive                                   6              150
Saloon Cars                                          2              100
Pick-ups                                             2               80
Mobile Workshop                                      1              120
Spare Parts                                         LS              234
Office and Survey Equipment                         LS              180
Hydrology and Radio Equipment                       LS              150
Workshop Tools                                                       30
1,410
Extension Services
(a) Transport:
Station Wagons                                  1                46
Standard 4-Wheel Drive                         11              440
Mini 4-Wheel Drive                              10              250
Pick-ups                                         7              280
Motor Bikes                                     75              375
Mobile Audiovisual Unit                          1               60
Vehicle Spare Parts                                             363
Subtotal                                                  1,814
(b) Extension Equipment and Supplies
Photography and Recording Equipment                              52
Agricultural Machinery and Implements                           820
Sprayers                                                        685
Furniture and Generators for Extension
and Regional Offices                                           554
Office Equipment                                                170
Spare Parts                                                     456
Fertilizer                                                      800
Plant Protection Chemicals                                      650
Seeds and Plant Material                                        300
Polyethylene Bags                                               112
Office Supplies                                                 200
Subtotal                                                  4,799
Animal Health and Production Services
Station Wagons                                       6              276
Standard 4-Wheel Drive                               2               80
Motorcycles                                         18               90
Mobile Clinic                                        1              170
Other Equipment                                     LS               45
Vaccines                                            LS              800
Drugs                                               LS              600
Office Supplies                                     LS              280
Subtotal                                                  2,341
Agricultural Credit
Standard 4-Wheel Drive                               6              240
Motorcycles                                          4               20
Office Equipment and Furnishings                    LS            1,350
Subtotal                                                     1,610
Bilharzia Control
Station Wagon                                        1               46
Motorcycles                                          2               10
Miscellaneous Lab & Field Equipment                 LS               44
Molluscicides and Drugs                             LS              260
Subtotal                                                        360



YEMEN ARJAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Cash Flow Projection of Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB)
(Million YRIs)
1        2         3         4          5        6          7         8         9        10        11        12         13
Cash Inflow
Cash Contribution 1/                     2.00       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Equity 2/                               11.00      8.68    10.00    15.89         -         -         -         -         -          -                   -         -
Profit on input sales 3/                  .21       .34       .41       .68       .68       .68       .68        .68       .68       .68       .68       .68       .68
Loan Collection 4/
Medium-term                             -         .55      1.26      2.17      3.67      3.96      3.47      2.77      1.80       -          -         -         -
Short-term                            1.97      2.56      3.07      6.70       6.70      6.70      6.70      6.70      6.70      6.70      6.70      6.70       6.70       '
Interest on loans 4/
Medium- & Long-term                     .26       .58       .92      1.45      1.27       .98       .65       .37       .14        -         -         -         -
Short-term                              .18       .23       .28       .61       .61       .61       .61       .61       .61       .61        .61       .61       .61
Total Inflow                       15.62    12.89    15.94    26.89    12.32    12.93    12.15            11.13      9.93      7.99      7.99      7.99       7.99
Cash Outflow
Loans
Medium-term                            3.30      3.95      4.83      7.90       -         -         -         -         -          -         -         _         _
Short-term                            2.00       2.60     3.12       6.80      6.80      6.80      6.80      6.80      6.80      6.80      6.80       6.80      6.80
Investments                              6.50       .77       .75       -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Expenses 5/-
Operating costs                        1.00      1.40      1.40      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20       1.20      1.20      1.20   a,
CommiSSiDn to sales agents              .08       .13       .16       .27       .27       .27       .27       .27        .27       .27       .27       .27       .27   t N
Sub-total 5/                        1.08      1.53      1.56      1.47      1.47      1.47       1.47      1.47      1.47      1.47      1.47      1.47       1.47
Total Outflow                      12.88      8.85    10.26    16.17        8.27      8.27      8.27       8.27      8.27      8.27      8.27      8.27       8.27
Cash surplus (deficit)                   2.74       .06       .80      3.00      9.25      8.97      9.08      8.22      8.20       6,37      6.21      2.06      1.52
Cumulative cash surplus (deficit)        2.74      1.06      1.90      4.90    14.10    23.10    32.16        40.38    48.58    54.95    61.20    63.20    64.74
1/  Minimum contribution of Government to operation start-up.
2/  Estimate (rounded) of foreign exchange component (excluding price contingencies) less farmers' contributions.
3/  10% mark-up on total inputs purchased.
4/  Assumes 5% delay in repayment, with one-half paid following year;  all interest paid on schedule.
5/  No allowance made for inflation and other contingencies.



-56 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
I/
Items                     Financial Price         Economic Price  /
YRls/ton  US$/ton      YRls/ton  US$/ton
Sorghum - grain            1,800        400          900      200
Barley                     1,500        333          870       193
Wheat - grain              1,700        378        1,260       280
Maize - grain              1,750        389        1,125       250
Tomatoes, onions, etc.    3,800         844        2,900      660
Potatoes                   3,100        689        2,400       540
Pulses                     3,300        733        2,600      570
Fruits                     3,000        667        2,340       520
Alfalfa (green)              700        156          600       133
Honey (raw)              100,000    22,200        37,500    8,300 -/
Chicken (liveweight)      20,000      4,400       13,500    3,000 3
Stover and straw             500        111          390       87
1/ Sorghum, wheat and maize when treated as tradables and,
accordingly, the economic price was based on a forecast border
price for 1982-89. For all other commodities, except alfalfa,
chicken and honey, the standard conversion factor of 0.78 was
used.
2/ Border price plus 50% for local preference.
3/ Border price plus 35% for local preference.



-57-                   ANNEX 2
Table 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Proposed Water Supply Schemes for Construction During First Year
Al Sakin                 Deep Well    Al Dalil                      Deep Well
Al Edan                      "        Al Bohim                           "
Dhi As Sufal                 "        Mana'am                            "
Manzil Al Khimwah                     Reman                              "
Al Hadeedah                           Al Kafoof                          "
Bani Hammad                           Sugal Salet                       "
Bani Ali                              Al Anin                         Spring
Al Mahal                              Hamam Ali l
Al Saram                              Dimna Hasban Asfal                "
Azaf Shawarfa                         Al Daliwal Ga'ashi                "
Al Ehsan                              Al Maghatin
Adna  abrawal Mawadin                 Sugal Talool Wal Rubaj
Qadasi                                Al Tahooful Uha
Wadi Arafat                           Al Quibi Manzil Al Shaaram
Wadi Safia                            Al Shaqab
Suba'a Al Dahil                       Shahrah
Bani Masn Azaiz                       Jabal Habashi
Al Mezaz                    it        Al Majma'a



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP 11)
Implementation Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                1981              1982                    1983                     1984                    1985
Calendar Year                        1981                    1982                    1983                    1984               1985
RURAL WATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
Tubewells Schemes                            -   _ -- 
Dug Wells and Spring Schemes                          O                                40%
- I--
-   _ --%80%
-                             _1  00%
PROJECT AND RESEARCH STAFF HOUSING        -1_
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Houses, Offices and Stores                                     3 _  _       _  _                   1000%
p -         ~         70%
100%
Equipment (Procurement)
Implementation                                                                                                                  -R
Wadi Jawf - Feasibility and Design     __       _          __          ._  _ 
M   * Bids and Contract Award.                                                                                                      World Bank-21356



59                    ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
1. YAR, Agricultural Sector Memorandum,
Report No. 2582-YAR, June 26, 1979.
2. 2. YAR, Effects of Migration of Rural Labor on Agricultural
Development, Report No. 2585-YAR, June 26, 1979.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Appraisal of Southern Uplands Rural Development Project -
Yemen Arab Republic, April 4, 1975, Report No. 687-YAR.
2. Report of the Yemen Arab Republic Second Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project Identification Mission, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, Investment Centre. FAO, Rome 31/7/1978,
Report No. 37/10-YAR 4.
3. Report of the Yemen Arab Republic Second Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project Preparation Mission. FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, Investment Centre. Report No. 13/79-YAR 5.
FAO, Rome, March 2, 1979.
C. Working Papers and Tables for Project Implementation
1. Description of Project Works.
2. Detailed Features of Animal Health and Livestock Production.
3. Detailed Estimates of Agricultural Inputs and Credit Requirements.
4. Pro-Forma Farm Budgets and Cash Flow Analyses.
5. Terms of Reference of Advisors, Consultants and for Studies.
.



I
a                                                                                                                                                                                           I



IR  A                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  14837
RE) 2R;n  ,   , bc,t                                   44'                                                                                       16R                    MARCH AMRC
A  .St,sTNEAl , DEAT               I ,   ,    C             A U D I    A R A B I A
15          REEMDATe Et,       ~ o.   Sz                                                     E Nollon                                   YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
REPANo   <Y'4.',enf'3PEM'pr'F*flEN'u  /-    \  <                         5'                             SECOND  SOUTHERN  UPLANDS RURAL
osTolERDDEfL20        R> 'IE S<-9) \ X                               .DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.              ( _______| ___  ,1                                                   -r                                  PROJECT AREA
J.R>OM                                                       jpRsR 9   te  S                                       Ri  > S   |   -   PROJECt ARE          _       EEADSP  ROAES
Soodoh         /                                   ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT AN- AL 1              COTHER ROADS
k X < ' > \ 9 (! 0;dph ~ ;F;/                                                                                                  o COTnES, ROTD   'n VILLAGRDS P0.-INCIAL 3E-NDAEIS
-  0 / ,  , X r ....... . . ,. . , , . ., M . ,, , t ' M v ' ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    1171NA-0L B HDUN  PIE
00   9;)    4~~~~~~~~  \ >  }\  /1   /'i/                                          O~~~~~~~~~~  20    40        0      80       IO
N A :                               RAK> Ste    C   So"p                 '  '-orKAER o
\\tA!owloO~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           20 Al                      66  fj' S  +
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                                                           -AR--  CPOPDLE'S ID EMCAI REPU B L 'E               ICTAJR~    OF DEArS
'R    53'>-5Roo
EDR.D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1 R
E~ ~ ~ ~ TR)~I' H I O_P  A                                                                                                                                               _ _
/      -                                      D                                        GUlo HORI A           A
/'     ETR'i                                                                                                                                                               d
RREA  MOPERDERRERSE ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~L'S DEORAJ                                       RPULC        F YE E
A6I 



A




IBRD 14838
\                                  /                                    /   ^ AS  SANAA 
'0AIT~ ~~AIVA
+~~~  'C     ~          '
Kx            f-lOPE/9A                                                    1<VE4     K-  vr                                    B&/PA
\~~~~~~~~~~Hy <                                    ISA    \S4E r                                                   A>- AAl 
R ;./ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  ~-'                                                                              SASS v r~r
< _ <  { /    \S,DAI M dViid \  r    H---q-->                       ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~-
S,cA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 040,,                                                                          SAA   1>'Fma  A- \A JAOFLh\
-y.~~~~~H
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H  ,HI                                           4C  C/             y4                  5,5T  tAPA   SOM  DALIA;-/ . 
" . ;'   ."  ' .   '-  -~ ~~ At-                        * A I Trd        >       _              
,,; (                                                                                          >                     e shuMFvrah ,/ YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CULTIVATED AREAS AND EXTENSION CENTERS
. . S ,/     PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                         PRIAESC AREA SCJSEAO   Y   oSELFHIEOVILLACES
.                              '      /                                  YEI\AEN                                         A      PRGPOSED_SURDPE R.    SECTEDASTM
ETHIOPI                                                                                                                                                                 1-     -T-A MTG-
SI---'                                                                                      __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-.  I-TA
g  r   N   ,   \ _A            ---.                                                 /             r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EHIIIA fl-505TH I  _ ,0T AACOuADS
DJIBOUTI
6A/f  IC'f Ad,o
MARCH 1000



