Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COpy
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. F-2874-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(SURDP II)
August 22, 1980
This document ba a rected distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Dank autrlton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                  August 1980
Currency Unit  -  Yemen Rial (YR1)        YR1
$1  -  YRls 4.50 1/            4.50
YR1 1  -  $0.22                   0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (Prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (Starting 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB     - Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF     n Agricultural Credit Fund
ARS     - Agricultural Research Service
CPO     -  Central Planning Organization
CYDA    -  Confederation of Yemeni
Development Associations
ECWA    -  Economic Commision for
Western Asia
EEC     = European Economic Community
FAO     =  Food and Agricultural
Organization
GDP     =  Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -  Gross National Product
ICB     -  International Competitive
Bidding
IDA     -  International Development
Association
IFAD    =  International Fund for
Agricultural Development
LDA     =  Local Development Association
MOH     = Ministry of Health
SDRs    =  Special Drawing Rights
SURDP   -  Southern Uplands Rural
Development Project
SURDU   =  Southern Uplands Rural
Development Unit
VDC     =  Village Development Committee
WHO     = World Health Organization
YAR     =  Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni Rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Yemen Arab Republic (YAR).
Amount:        Special Drawing Rights 13.0 million ($17.0 million equivalent
as of date of negotiations).
Terms:         Standard.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is an expansion of the successful expe-
rience of the first rural development project in YAR, SURDP I
(Credit 545). It seeks to improve farm incomes and the quality
of rural life in the rural highlands of Ibb and Taiz Gover-
norates, and establish firmly the regional services of the Min-
istry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) in
the project area in a manner which can be replicated elsewhere
in YAR. The main project components include: (a) expansion of
agricultural extension and social services; (b) expansion of
livestock health and production services, including honey
production; (c) provision of credit for agricultural investment
and inputs, including investment to expand the services and
outreach of ACB; (d) construction of rural water supply systems
and technical assistance for the construction of rural roads
and irrigation works; (e) provision of project management and
engineering services; (f) provision of housing facilities for
the permanent staff of the Agricultural Research Service (ARS);
(g) extension of the bilharzia control program; and (h) com-
pletion of feasibility studies and preparation of final designs
for the agricultural development of the Wadi Jawf area.
The project would directly benefit approximately 60,000 rural
families. Its benefits, measurable over the 86,000 ha on
which improved agricultural techniques would be used, consist
of a 7 percent annual increase in farm income, additional
agricultural production, and the long-term demonstration
effects in Ibb and Taiz Governorates. Rural water supply would
benefit some 600 villages, with about 500 inhabitants each.
The main project risks have been taken into account in the
project design. Provisions have been made (paragraph 74) to
minimize the risks from: (i) shortage of administrative and
technical staff; (ii) failure to alter crop-sharing arrange-
ments between tenants and landowners which is needed for
providing incentives and safeguards to tenants wishing to
modernize their farming practices; and (iii) a higher rate of
domestic inflation than forecast.
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.1 -
Estimated Cost:                                      Local      Foreign    Total
---- $ million -------
Project management and engineering          3.7         1.9        5.6
Rural water supply                          6.6        11.5       18.1
Housing for ARS staff                       0.7         1.0        1.7
Extension service                           6.7         4.3       11.0
Livestock production and health             1.5         1.2        2.7
Agricultural credit                         2.4         8.2       10.6
Feasibility studies (Wadi Jawf)              -          0.4        0.4
Bilharzia control                           0.2         0.1        0.3
Base cost                                  21.8        28.6       50.4
Physical contingencies                      1.2         2.5        3.7
Price contingencies                        18.7         8.8       27.5
Sub-total                                  19.9        11.3       31.2
Total                                 41.7        39.9       81.6
Financing Plan:                                      Local      Foreign    Total
--------   million -------
IDA Credit                                   -         17.0       17.0
IFAD                                        4.7         9.3       14.0
Swiss Development Cooperation               2.4         3.6        6.0
Abu Dhabi Fund                               -         10.0       10.0
Beneficiaries                              12.6          -        12.6
Government                                 22.0          -        22.0
Total                                 41.7        39.9       81.6
Estimated IDA Disbursement:       IDA FY   1981   1982   1983   1984    1985
---------- $ million --------…   =
Annual                              0.5    3.9    4.4    4.4       3.8
Cumulative                          0.5    4.4    8.8   13.2    17.0
Estimated Completion Date: December 1985
Rate of Return:               23 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2921-YAR, dated August 20, 1980



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SURDP II)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing Rights
(SDRs) 13.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent as of the date of negotiations),
on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Second Southern Uplands Rural Develop-
ment Project (SURDP II). The Abu Dhabi Fund, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development, and the Swiss Development Cooperation would provide
loans in the amounts of $10.0 million, SDRs 10.6 million ($14.0 million
equivalent), and 10.0 million Swiss Francs ($6.0 million equivalent),
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economv," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Fxecutive Directors on January 3, 1979. An updating economic
mission visited YAR in November 1979. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens.
The republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Technical ministries were strengthened,
essential government institutions were created, modern budgetary and banking
practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of working effectiveness was
achieved by the public administration.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by the
country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foundations
for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and expanded,
and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the
economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also started,
albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced
by the large inflow of remittances by Yemeni workers in Saudi Arabia and
the Gulf States. These are estimated to have increased, on a net basis, from
around $40 million in 1969/70 to a peak of over $1 billion in 1977/78, but
have subsequently dropped to about $900 million in 1978/79. Largely, as
a result of these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased
significantly over this period. While these developments, together with



fast-growing government expenditures for both investment projects and public
services, have greatly alleviated YAR's traditional problems of poverty,
famine and rural underemployment, they have created new ones which will have
to be addressed in the 1980s.
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Almost nine out of ten adults are illiterate and only 35
percent of children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in primary school. Over
90 percent of the population resides in rural areas, a large part in remote
villages without access to modern transportation, schools, electricity or
health services. Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral
deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled occupations, even the unskilled work force was under strain during the
height of the labor migration to neighboring countries. However, it appears
that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recently eased somewhat as
the pace of migration has levelled-off.
8.        The capacity of the public administration to manage and implement a
growing and increasingly complex development program is limited by the shortage
of skilled manpower. During the past, when funds were more limited and modern
facilities were sorely lacking, it was relatively easy to select high priority
projects. However, with the rapid growth in development spending the range of
choices is increasing and the long-term costs and benefits of individual
projects are not always as obvious as in the past.
9.        Another issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need
for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.
To meet this need, the government will have to provide adequate budget allo-
cations, introduce effective maintenance programs and assist in establishing
repair facilities for machinery and equipment.
10        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for
the financing of fast growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970's the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to diminish
in relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures
to broaden the tax base, to strengthen the tax administration, and to devise
new schemes to tap the savings of the private sector.



-3-
Government Objectives
11.       The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan which is currently in its closing year. It has endeavored to
strengthen the physical and social infrastructure, to raise the productivity
of the commodity-producing sectors, and to improve the standard-of-living of
the people giving priority to their basic needs. In support of these objectives,
an impressive investment program was launched totalling around $3.5 billion
for the Plan period. Of this total, 14 percent was earmarked for agriculture,
25 percent for industry including mining, 31 percent for transport and com-
munications, 13 percent for housing and 17 percent for trade and services.
Preliminary progress reports on the first three years of the Plan indicate
that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met and sometimes
exceeded.
12.       The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) is currently
underway. In this context, the Government has asked the Bank for assistance
in reviewing priorities in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to channel
resources into the most desirable areas. This work is now in progress.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
13.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and 1978/79. 1/
Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid
expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government services, of transporta-
tion and finance. There was also a rapid increase of modern cash crops as
farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables, fruits and poultry.
Subsistence agriculture, still the most important economic sector in YAR, grew
at a much slower pace.
14.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors.  Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the govern-
ment increased its capital expenditures from YRls 58 million ($13 million) in
1972/73 to YRls 2670 million ($593 million) in 1978/79.
15.       The short period since 1970 has witnessed marked changes in the
structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern agriculture, trade, trans-
port and government services in GDP have all increased while that of subsis-
tence agriculture declined from over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than 30
1/   The Government is currently revising the country's entire national
accounts series. The unrevised accounts showed a real growth rate of
11 percent p.a. over the 1973-79 period.



- 4 -
percent in 1978/79. Even so, YAR's economy is still very much underdeveloped.
The contribution of cash farming and industry (including construction) to GDP
is still smaller than that of subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
16.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79, gross
national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million which would be
equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national savings are
generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large part of these
savings originated from workers' remittances. Savings are thus generated
throughout the country, and their ownership is widely distributed among
different population groups. Large amounts of savings are also being generated
in the trading sector (most of which is in private hands), in some areas of
agriculture (e.g., fruits and vegetables), in real estate and, to a lesser
extent, in the new manufacturing sector.
17.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year).
However, in the following three years tax revenue more than trebled--due
largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in import duties. As
a result, the current budget yielded surpluses which in 1977/78 reached
YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for 1978/79 have this
surplus shrinking to around YRls 350 million ($78 million) as a result of
continued large expansion of expenditures.
18.       Expenditures both for recurrent and capital purposes, are likely to
grow rapidly in future years to cover the needs of expanded education and
health services as well as for more effective maintenance programs. It will
also be necessary to improve the remuneration of civil servants to retain
qualified staff in the public administration and to provide adequate incentives
for new recruitment.
19.       The expected growth in current Government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. Emphasis will have to be
given to improving the collection of existing taxes, especially import duties
which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import volume expands
further. A thorough review of the present structure of import tariffs would
be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such duties. Other
promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties, sales and
turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of business
incomes. However, the administrative and political obstacles against broaden-
ing the tax base are formidable, and in the meantime, generous foreign aid
is easing the burden on the current budget and finances a large part of the
government's capital expenditures (see paragraphs 23-25).
20.       YAR's external financial position has changed dramatically in recent
years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was in
short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country has



subsequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this change must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and in the
substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil-
exporting nations. Provisional estimates for 1978/79, however, indicate that
inflows of remittance may have stabilized while outflows and private transfer
payments have increased considerably leading to a drop in net flows.
21.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. During 1973/74-1978/79 these exports averaged $11 million a year,
or the equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agricul-
tural origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodities.
Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in 1973/74 to
$1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects the rapidly
rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
22.       YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its export
potential and depends largely on its strong surplus position in the service
sectors, especially workers' remittances. Until 1977/78 the net earnings from
services exceeded the trade deficits resulting in positive current balances.
In 1978/79, however, the gross inflow of workers' remittances levelled off
while outflows rose sharply. This, together with fast rising imports,
created a sizeable deficit in the current account of the balance of payments
($376 million).
Capital Flows and External Debt
23.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all
assistance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can
be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came to about $1.3 billion by
the end of FY1978/79. The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf
States, IDA, the USSR, China, Germany and the USA.
24.       About two thirds of the total assistance given so far was provided
as grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants has been
made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage
of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be
needed by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received
sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on these loans have
increased in recent years, reaching $133 million in 1978/79. Most of the
official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of specific



- 6 -
projects with the main emphasis on roads; agriculture, including irrigation;
and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity assistance or as
cash loans.
25.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
26.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1979 was estimated
at $1075 million, of which $543 million was disbursed. The major creditors were
IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany 1/ and the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits
accounted for $174 million or about 16 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments
amounted to $28 million for 1978/79, equivalent to 1.7 percent of gross foreign
exchange earnings (including workers' remittances). Although service payments
are expected to rise in the next few years, the burden of such payments would
continue to remain small in relation to YAR's exchange earnings.
27.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of June 1979 they reached $1,550 million or the equivalent of more than
one year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings and a
relatively high level of foreign aid. It should be pointed out in this
context that YAR's official reserves are not assets earned by the State--as in
the case of oil-exporting countries--but represent largely the counterpart of
unspent private incomes which could be drawn down as import levels rise.
Workers' remittances and capital flows, on the other hand, are of a more
volatile nature and their volume could change significantly within a relatively
short time. YAR's present comfortable reserve position may therefore be a
passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if past trends in foreign
exchange flows are not re-established.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 2/
28.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-fourth 3/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $225.3 million. Annex II contains a summary statement
1/   The Federal Republic of Germany recently converted all its aid to YAR
into grants.
2/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Fisheries Development project which was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 20, 1980.
3/   Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR, and the $7.0 million credit for Textile Rehabili-
tation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was cancelled at the Government's
request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



-7-
of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of July 31, 1980. The World Bank strategy in YAR has been three-
fold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills and physical
infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to develop production
and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture, and to support the
Government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To
develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits for highways totalling
$28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port development project, four credits
for water supply and sewerage totalling $36.4 million, and a $10 million
credit for power distribution. To assist in the development of education, IDA
has extended three credits for a total of $29 million, in support of primary
and secondary teacher training, and secondary and vocational education. To
develop rural infrastructure and to support production and distribution in
agriculture, fisheries and agro-industry, IDA has made eight credits for a
total of $89.4 million. To develop industry, IDA extended a $2.3 million
credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to stimulate invest-
ment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model for future indus-
trial development; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4 million by the International
Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR) was approved to help finance
a dairy and juice project.
29.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry gf Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Bank supplies
the services of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as
executing agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second Tihama
project), EEC Special Action Fund and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service
at Taiz, which carries out agricultural research for the country as a whole,
is also financed as part of this institutional support.
30.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development,
and education, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to imple-
ment projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical assis-
tance needed for successful implementation. A technical assistance project
for CPO has been appraised; a development finance project, a rural electrifica-
tion project and an education project, are in the preparation stage. Future
projects are expected to include, agriculture, industry, urban development,
health, and further rural development activities, as well as assistance in the
energy sector.



- 8 -
31.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects (excluding the textiles project), for
which credits amounting to a total of $201.3 million were made, have led to
about $255 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors. In addi-
tion, co-financing of about $30 million is expected to be provided for this
project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
32.       Until the late 1960s, the agricultural sector of YAR was largely
oriented toward the subsistence needs of a stationary economy and contributed
little to improving the quality of rural life. The meagre endowment in land,
scant rainfall, isolation from opportunities for technological progress and
the lack of alternative economic opportunities, combined to create an environ-
ment of pervasive rural underemployment and poverty. As a result, agriculture
generated little surplus on which growth and development could be based.
Traditional agriculture, however, was built upon a time proven mastery of
scarce natural resources by means of terracing and ingenious systems of water
diversion, fixed land rights, and a self-contained social organization solidly
founded on village and tribal ties between the people and the land. It is
estimated that, during 1960s, agriculture employed about 80-90 percent of
the economically active population and contributed as much as 90 percent of
GDP.
33.       The agricultural sector has recently started the process of transi-
tion from a subsistence to a market orientation, as a result of significant
public investment expenditure and workers' remittances arising from employment
opportunities in the neighboring oil-producing countries. In less than a
decade, the rudiments of modern agricultural technology have been introduced,
even in regions with modest resource endowment; rural unemployment has vir-
tually disappeared, while manpower shortages became widespread. As a result,
the quality of rural life has improved significantly throughout YAR; the share
of agriculture in GDP and in employment declined along with the rapid growth
in other sectors; and the shifts in land use increased agricultural production
which, however, remains insufficient at this time to satisfy the demand for
food generated by the sharp increases in incomes in YAR as a whole.



-9-
Recent Performance
34.       It is estimated that the share of agriculture fell approximately
from 55 to 40 percent of total GDP in current market prices during the period
1969/71-1977/79. Agricultural GDP at constant market prices grew by about 4
percent annually during the same period, compared with a growth rate of about
9 percent for the economy as a whole. The decline in the annual rate of
growth of agricultural GDP to about 3 percent since 1975/76 while aggregate
GDP rose by about 11 percent annually, is a short term phenomenon caused by
the rapid emigration of labor from the sector, inclement weather during 1977
and shifts in land use away from traditional subsistence to cash crops such as
fruits and vegetables. Thus, between 1971/72 and 1977/78, while the area
under fruits and vegetables rose at an average annual rate of 31 percent and
their production by 7 percent, area and output under cereals, except maize,
declined by about 0.6 percent and 4 percent per annum, respectively. Both
livestock and forestry production have declined during the last decade, due in
part to the shortage of labor and to the degradation of range and woodlands.
35.       Meanwhile, the population of YAR has become increasingly dependent
on food imports, rural poverty continues to be pervasive, and major constraints
on agricultural and rural development remain to be overcome. The importation
of food and beverages rose in value from about 25 percent of total domestic
food consumption in the early 1970s to about 41 percent in 1977/78, when it
amounted to $244 million. Meanwhile, exports, which are mostly agricultural,
declined from about $14 million in 1973/74 to about $7 million in 1977/78, due
mainly to the fall in cotton production which has suffered because of rising
agricultural wages.
Rural Income and Poverty
36.       Even with the effects of remittances from Yemenis working abroad
on per capita GNP, it is estimated that 60 percent of the population of YAR
is at or near the 1978 rural poverty level of about $170 per year. Incomes
from agriculture have not risen in step with those of other sectors, due to a
combination of resource constraints, slow technological improvements, and a
twenty-fold increase in rural labor costs over the last 5-6 years. For most
of the rural population, housing is rudimentary and unsanitary; nutrition,
although improving, remains deficient, while in most areas safe water is
unavailable and health services non-existent; infant mortality is 159 per
thousand live births and intestinal and other diseases are widespread. It
is estimated that less than 10 percent of the rural adult male population
is literate and, where available, primary education is of a generally poor
quality. In spite of impressive achievements in building main highways and
networks of rural roads--the latter with local initiative--most villages are
still isolated from the main road arteries and continue to rely on animal
transportation. Cooking and heating rely mostly on an expensive and dwindling
supply of firewood, some imported kerosene and propane.



- 10 -
Major Issues and Constraints to Growth
37.       The alleviation of rural poverty in YAR depends mainly on strategies
to improve the efficiency of production so as to satisfy the rising levels and
changing patterns of consumption and to make it attractive for rural families
to remain in agriculture. Severe constraints, particularly the scarcity of
arable land and the deficiency in water resources, need to be overcome. Other
important constraints include inequitable sharecropping arrangements, a lack
of complementary infrastructure, the limited use of farm inputs and equipment,
an acute shortage of skilled administrative and technical manpower which hinder
the development of institutions, as well as the shortage of farm labor result-
ing in high production costs, which render domestic production uncompetitive
with imports.
38.       The long-term growth prospects are promising, particularly in the
areas with relatively high rainfall or potential for irrigation, the Southern
Uplands and the Tihama plains. Government policies are contributing to over-
coming the constraints mentioned above, including the shortage of manpower
(see paragraph 44). Rudimentary rural infrastructure, especially roads, is
being built at the initiative of some 200 Local Development Associations (LDAs).
The system of crop sharing arrangements between tenants and landowners is the
most difficult constraint to overcome because of the implications of change on
traditional institutions and practices. Under the traditional system of crop
sharing there is little incentive for tenants to use more productive techniques
than those traditionally used since they would assume all costs but receive
one half or less of the resulting benefits. Because of this problem, the
Government obtained a religious edict requiring landowners to share in the
costs of production in proportion to their share in output as an interim
mneasure until the recently completed study of tenancy arrangements conducted
by the UN Economic Commission for Western Asia (ECWA) and partly financed by
IDA (Credit 805-YAR) is reviewed by the Government and IDA and its recom-
mendations adopted by the Government.
Government Strategy and Plans
39.       Government objectives in the agricultural sector, as identified in
the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), are directed towards reducing dependence
on food imports by increasing agricultural production, raising the nutritional
level of the population, expanding agricultural research, extension and credit
and training Yemenis in order to build up the country's agricultural institu-
tions. The Plan aimed at achieving a 5.5 percent annual rate of growth in
agricultural GDP and set an investment target of about $580 million, or about
16 percent of total investment, of which $310 million would be for about 60
public sector projects.  High priority was assigned to irrigated agriculture,
mainly in the Tihama plains, high rainfall areas such as the Southern Uplands,
and to training at all levels. The Plan requires approximately $270 million
of external financing and considerable technical assistance until sufficient
Yemeni staff acquire the necessary expertise.
40.       The growth rate of agricultural GDP may fall short of the 5.5 per-
cent target level, primarily because benefits from most of the projects which
started during the Plan period will not materialize until the mid-1980s.



- 11 -
Moreover, since the Plan made no provisions for the effects of a higher rate
of inflation than expected, rising costs and the increasing scarcity of labor
of all types, the start of some projects, particularly those with large
construction components, has been delayed and others have been reduced in
scope.
41.       Considerable progress is however being made through projects which
started sufficiently early to generate benefits during the present Plan period,
e.g. poultry and potato production, while the establishment and expansion of
agricultural research, education, extension and credit institutions are
moving forward in spite of acute staff shortages. About 425 Yemenis are
studying agricultural and veterinary sciences abroad and an agricultural
school in Ibb has recently been inaugurated. Meanwhile, an interim system of
training agricultural extension agents has been successfully launched in the
Tihama and the Southern Uplands. The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and
the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), which are now merged, have established
a sound system of farm credit with an enviable loan recovery rate. Projects
such as Tihama I (Wadi Zabid) and the Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project (SURDP I) have demonstrated the rapidity with which farmers adopt
more productive practices and techniques when the necessary physical and
institutional infrastructure are provided.
Previous IDA Assistance in the Agriculture Sector
42.       The proposed project would be the ninth IDA-financed project in
agriculture, including fisheries. IDA strategy in assisting agricultural
development has reflected the Government's emphasis on institution building
and on initiating efforts to modernize agriculture in areas with known poten-
tial. IDA's involvement in this sector started in FY73 with the now completed
Tihama I project, for the development of Wadi Zabid (Cr. 376), co-financed
with the Kuwait Fund. The project faced cost overruns and supplementary
financing was provided by both financiers (Cr 376-1). Three more Tihama
projects (Credits 805, 880 and 978) were approved between FY78 and FY80. The
projects provide credit, extension, rural roads, water supply and irrigation
for Wadi Rima and Wadi Mawr. Other external co-financiers involved in these
projects include the Kuwait Fund, IFAD, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau,
the EEC Special Action Fund, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Other
agricultural projects include the FY75 SURDP I (Cr. 545), co-financed by the
Abu Dhabi Fund; the FY76 Grain Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636),
co-financed by the Saudi Fund, which includes a nutrition study and a component
for fortification of flour; the FY77 Livestock Credit and Processing project
(Cr. 662), co-financed by the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands, and the United
Kingdom; and the FY80 Fisheries Development project (Cr 1025), expected to be
co-financed by the Danish Government.
43.       In addition, IDA was the executing agency for a UNDP project,
Institutional Support to the MOA, which was completed in 1979. IDA is at
present the executing agency for a UNDP project which provides agricultural
research and institutional support to the MOA, and which is co-financed by IDA
and the EEC Special Action Fund, under the Tihama II project.



- 12 -
44.       There are no Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) on projects
previously financed by IDA in YAR. All projects including SURDP I have
suffered from the effects of cost escalation and from the shortage of trained
counterpart staff. The former was dealt with by increasing the contributions
of the beneficiaries and the Government (e.g. SURDP I) and/or by securing
additional co-financing (e.g. Grain Storage Processing). The shortage of
Yemeni staff should ease in the mid-1980s as Yemenis who are at present
studying abroad complete their education and return to YAR. However, if
salaries in Government services continue to deteriorate vis-a-vis salaries in
the private sector and in the neighboring oil producing countries, it may be
difficult for the Government to recruit and retain qualified technical and
administrative staff. In the interim, to fill counterpart positions, the
Government has been recruiting international staff and permits overseas
recruitment of technicians.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
45.       The Second Southern Uplands Rural Development project (SURDP II) is
an expansion on the successful experience of the FY75 Southern Uplands Rural
Development Project (STRDP I, Credit 545-YAR), the first rural development
effort in YAR over a smaller area in the same region, and is based on prepara-
tory work and feasibility studies conducted at the request of the YAR Govern-
ment by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in 1978 and 1979. The project
was appraised in October 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C.,
from June 2 to June 6, 1980. The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency,
Dr. Abdul Wahab NIahmoud . A report entitled "Yemen Arab-Republic, Staff
Appraisal Report, Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project"
(No. 2921-YAR) dated August 20, 1980 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the credit and project are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.
46.       The project works and activities under SURDP I are expected to be
completed in 1981, almost one year ahead of schedule, at a cost of about $30
million, compared to $23 million estimated at appraisal, the additional costs
being incurred by the YAR Government and the beneficiaries. The successful
implementation of SURDP I has demonstrated that despite rising costs and the
shortage of trained staff, the population of the Southern Uplands is receptive
to the provision of agricultural and other services to improve their well-
being.  The project's multi-village water supply schemes are expected to
reach about 30,000 to 35,000 families, twice the initial estimate; the crop
area assisted by the project will probably reach 40,000 ha, compared to 35,000
ha estimated at appraisal; and the demand for agricultural credit and inputs
will reach three times the amount estimated at appraisal. Successful plant
protection and veterinary campaigns have strengthened farmer receptiveness
to the introduction of new methods.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
47.       The proposed project, which provides the opportunity for building
upon the experiences and achievements of SURDP I with only minor changes in
project components and organization, seeks to: (a) increase rural incomes and
the living standards of about 60,000 farm families living in the highlands of
the Taiz and Ibb Governorates; and (b) improve the health conditions of the
rural population by providing potable water supplies, thereby reducing the
incidence of water-borne diseases. The project would also lead, through the
merger of the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) offices in Ibb
and Taiz with the departments of agriculture in the two Governorates, to a
firm establishment of the regional services of the MOA and of ACB in a manner
which can be replicated elsewhere in YAR.
Project Description
48.       The project comprises:  (i) expansion of agricultural extension and
social services; (ii) expansion of livestock health and production services,
including honey production; (iii) provision of credit for agricultural invest-
ment and inputs, including investment to expand ACB's operations; (iv) construc-
tion of rural water supply systems and provision of technical assistance for
the construction of rural roads and irrigation works; (v) project management
and engineering services; (vi) accommodation for the permanent staff of the
Agricultural Research Service (ARS) in the project area outside the cities of
Taiz and Ibb; (vii) expansion of the ongoing bilharzia control program; and
(viii) completion of feasibility studies and preparation of final designs for
the agricultural development of the Wadi Jawf area.
Extension and Social Services
49.       The extension services provided under SURDP I cover 40,000 ha at full
development; the project would further extend these services to cover a total
of about 86,000 ha, mostly in the areas with the highest rainfall and popula-
tion density. This would be achieved by training and employing 95 agricultural
and 40 home economics extension agents, and enlisting the active participation
of about 300 leading farmers. Several specialists in extension administration,
agronomy, plant protection, horticulture, farm irrigation, agricultural
machinery, home economics and extension training would be provided under
the project. Three contingents of 25 extension agents each would be trained
*under the program started at ARS until graduates from the Ibb agricultural
school join MOA starting in 1983. Social services would be provided to rural
families through the home economics extension agents.
Livestock Production and Animal Health
50.       Livestock in the project area suffer from the combined effects of
endemic diseases, outbreak of epidemic diseases, heavy infestation of para-
sites and insufficient feed. As a result, animal growth is stunted, mortality
is high, reproduction rate is low and milk production per cow is exceptionally



- 14 -
low. Thus, in order to provide preventive veterinary care of livestock
throughout the two Governorates and improve the supply of forage and feed,
especially for cattle, the project would provide: (a) a senior veterinarian
and livestock production specialist and range and forage production advisers;
(b) regional veterinarians and additional veterinary assistants and vacci-
nators, and the necessary supplies and equipment; (c) a small feed mill
to demonstrate the feasibility of mixing feed locally from domestically
produced oilseed meal, cereal and cereal byproducts to supplement the rations
of dairy cattle; and (d) technical assistance and credit for improving nutri-
tion, animal quality and milk production on about 50 small dairy farms with
two to three cows each.
Agricultural Credit
51.       The availability of credit for the farmers under SURDP I has been
vital for agricultural growth in the project area. Increases in agricultural
production will, to a large extent, depend on the increased use of farm
inputs and investment. Consequently, funds would be provided to finance
credit requirements of ACB incremental to those provided under SURDP I, and
to enable ACB to expand its services in the Southern Uplands in such areas
as beekeeping, development of fruit orchards, small dairy farms, improvement
of irrigation systems, provision of and machinery for selective mechanization.
The project would also provide ACB with funds for the construction of two
sub-branches, additional stores, training, equipment and a credit advisor.
Rural Infrastructure
52.       Available financial resources and technical know-how are inadequate
to satisfy the rising expectations of rural areas. As a result, rural infra-
structure projects, such as roads and village water supply, run out of funds
before completion or do not meet durability and safety criteria. The proposed
project would therefore provide the necessary funds to mobilize local resources,
as well as the required technical know-how. Under SURDP I, 62 multivillage
water supply schemes are being built for a total of 30,000 to 35,000 families.
Under SURDP II, 100 more such schemes would be constructed to provide safe
water to a total of approximately 600 villages, with about 500 inhabitants
each. It is intended that the beneficiaries, through their Village Development
Committees (VDCs) or Local Development Associations (LDAs), will contribute
to about 40 percent of the cost of the works, in labor and kind (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.07). Moreover, the project engineering staff
would assist LDAs with the design, construction and maintenance of rural roads
financed from their own resources.
Project Management and Engineering Services
53.       Until the regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture in Ibb and
Taiz can be fully staffed, management services will be provided centrally from
SURDU at Taiz, in order to limit costs and facilitate project administration
over the two Governorates. In addition to the project manager, the staff would
consist of a technical and management advisor, a finance and administration



- 15 -
advisor, four civil engineers, a hydrogeologist, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, who are expected to be recruited internationally, and their
counterparts.
Accormodations for Agricultural Research Service Staff
54.       The proposed establishment of a research farm and headquarters for
the ARS in a suitable rural area will necessitate the construction of housing
facilities in order to recruit and retain a permanent staff. In fact, without
adequate housing, the difficulty encountered in recruiting qualified staff
will become more acute. The project therefore provides for the construction
of accommodation for permanent staff of ARS consisting of 23 housing units,
eight dormitories and appurtenant facilities. The construction of housing
will be contingent on establishing the research farm, offices and laboratory
facilities by the Government at a new site outside the cities of Ibb and Taiz
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.13).
Bilharzia Control
55.       Recent samples taken to assess the incidence of schistosomiasis
bilharzia in Ibb and Taiz indicate that the modest bilharzia monitoring and
control program recently initiated under SURDP I, in coordination with the
World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health, should be con-
tinued and expanded until it becomes a part of the national health program
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.05). WHO will provide experts and
equipment during 1980-81 to train the agricultural extension workers in
bilharzia control and in the use of molluscicides, and SURDU would provide
a medical assistant, equipment, molluscicides and drugs. Epidemiological
baseline studies would be completed in the entire project area to develop
optimal methodologies for control.
Wadi Jawf Feasibility Studies
56.       In line with its policy to shift development efforts towards
border governorates, the Government is placing high priority on the development
of the Wadi Jawf in the north eastern part of the country. Some field surveys
and investigations are already underway and would be completed by about March
1981. The project will provide funds for the completion of the feasibility
studies of small surface and groundwater irrigation schemes in the Wadi Jawf
area and, if such studies warrant it, prepare final designs for the irrigation
schemes proposed.
Training
57.       Both in-service and overseas training are vital elements of nearly
all project components for building lasting agricultural and rural institu-
tions. The project provides for a total of 115 Yemeni trainees, of which 75
would be trained in extension services in Taiz and 25 in a resident agricul-
tural credit course, and 15 in short-term college level courses at institutes
and universities abroad. SURDU and ACB have agreed to formulate annual train-
ing programs which will be presented for IDA's review by June 30 of each year,
starting in 1981 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.08).



- 16 -
Project Implementation
58.       The project would be implemented over a period of four years.  All
civil works would be completed or contracted for by December 1983. The
execution of the project would be the responsibility of SURDU, a project
implementation unit established under SURDP I within MOA, and of ACB. A
project manager and staff will continue to operate SURDU and will be assisted
by an internationally recruited technical and management adviser and by
specialists with considerable experience in extension and social services,
rural infrastructure and engineering, animal health and production, administra-
tion and finance and monitoring and evaluation, all of whom would be inter-
nationally recruited. Moreover, in view of the need for on-the-job training
for newly hired Yemeni staff, expatriates would continue to be needed for the
first two to three years to direct field activities or until counterparts can
assume full responsibility. By the end of the project, the SURDU entities
would be merged with the regular regional services of MOA in the Ibb and Taiz
Governorates (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04).
59.       The present functions and responsibilities of SURDU will be expanded
to include, inter alia: (a) the establishment of regional offices in the Ibb
and Taiz Governorates; (b) the provision of formal on-the-job training for
counterparts at all levels in each major function; (c) the survey, design and
supervision of the construction and the equipping of permanent offices,
accommodation and stores for ACB branches and sub-branches in the project
area; and (d) the preparation of annual work programs and corresponding
budgets (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04). Concomitantly, the
Minister of Agriculture has formally delegated authority to the project
manager in terms consistent with SURDU's expanded functions and will approve
SURDU's administrative regulations.
60.       The project would help to finance the purchase of annual farm
inputs through short-term loans, and investments through medium and long-term
loans, through ACB. ACB is a well-established specialized financial institu-
tion which, when it merged with ACF in 1980, assumed responsiblity for channel-
ing credit for six IDA-financed agricultural development projects. Since a
large portion of lending by ACB has been from its own capital, about $14 mil-
lion from the credit component of the project would constitute an addition
to ACB's capital. This measure becomes possible when the Government takes the
necessary steps, as agreed under the recent Fisheries credit, to increase
ACB's capital to about $44 million equivalent by not later than December 31,
1980. The Government further agreed to review (i) ACB's capital requirements
every two years thereafter; and (ii) the effect of the expected continued
domestic inflation and the interest rates on the financial condition of ACB,
not later than February 28, 1981 and thereafter at intervals not exceeding two
years, concurrently with the review of ACB's capital requirements (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.07). In order to begin lending operations with a
minimum delay, the Government has agreed to advance to ACB a minimum of about
$450,000 equivalent by not later than April 1, 1981 (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.05).



- 17 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.       Systematic monitoring and evaluation of project implementation would
be undertaken by SURDU management in the course of planning and controlling
project activities, and would be reported to the Government and financing
entities. For this purpose, a monitoring and evaluation unit would be estab-
lished. Moreover, in view of the size and multiple activities of the project,
the Government has agreed to conduct, by March 31, 1983, a mid-project evalua-
tion in which IDA and the co-financiers are to participate (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.09).
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at $81.6 million equivalent, of which about 49 percent, or $39.9 million,
represents the foreign exchange component. These costs provide for physical
contingencies of 7 percent over the base cost and price contingencies of 51
percent over the base cost increased by physical contingencies. The high
price contingencies reflect the high rate of inflation in YAR experienced in
recent years, particularly in construction costs and wages. The base costs
related to the principal components are $18.1 million for water supply, $11.0
million for extension services and $10.6 million for agricultural credit. For
experts and associate experts services of about 68 man-year, including their
travel, they have been costed from $40,000 to $50,000 per man-year. This
excludes local transportation and subsistence costs equivalent to about
$15,000 per man-year which are covered by project's operational and head-
quarters costs. All experts would be hired by the Government. Import duties,
taxes and other levies are not charged on goods imported for development
projects in YAR, and are thus not included in the cost of the project.
63.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 13.0 million ($17.0 million
equivalent as of the date of negotiations), representing about 21 percent of
total project costs and about 43 percent of the foreign exchange component,
would finance the foreign exchange requirement of all project components
except credit and rural water supply which are partly financed by IDA credit.
Other external cofinanciers are expected to finance the remaining foreign
exchange requirements ($22.9 million) and cover part of the local costs
($7.1 million). The Abu Dhabi Fund and the Swiss Development Cooperation have
agreed to provide $10.0 million and 10.0 million Swiss francs ($6.0 million
equivalent) respectively towards the financing of the water supply schemes;
while IFAD has already negotiated a loan amounting to SDRs 10.6 million
($14.0 million equivalent) towards the financing of the agricultural credit
component. The beneficiaries and the Government would finance the remaining
local costs, estimated at $12.6 million and $22.0 million, respectively. The
ratification and meeting of the conditions of effectiveness of both the IFAD
and Swiss loan agreements and the signing of the Abu Dhabi Fund loan agreement
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 7.01).



- 18 -
Cost Recovery
64.       The existing religious tax on crop production (Zakat), will be the
means for the Government to recover part of the project's costs. The
additional Zakat expected to be generated as a result of the project would
amount to approximately $3.6 million annually, at full development; its
present value during the life of the project, based on a 12 percent discount
rate, would amount to $16.2 million. This represents 39 percent of the
present value of the directly productive project investment, overhead and
operating costs ($41.6 million) over a 20-year period.
65.       Cost recovery could be increased if charges were imposed on other
services and investments supplied by the project, including veterinary ser-
vices, and water supply schemes. However, since the main purpose
of veterinary services is to control contagious diseases and parasites,
charges would not be appropriate until a sufficient demand for these services
is created. Concerning village water supply schemes, in addition to the
operation and maintenance costs, at least 40 percent of the cost of investment
would be borne by the beneficiaries.
Production, Marketing and Prices
66.       After full project implementation (about 4 years) the project
is expected to result in higher crop and livestock production in the project
area, and to influence agricultural performance in the Southern Uplands as a
whole through the demonstration effects of improved techniques, new crop and
tree varieties, and the availability of farm inputs at commercial outlets.
This process has already begun under SURDP I. As a result of SURDP II,
additional annual production is expected to reach about 16,000 tons of cereals,
20,000 tons of vegetables, 120,000 tons of fodder, and 3,000 tons of fruits.
Production of milk and honey are also expected to increase significantly.
67.       In view of the rapid growth in demand for food, particularly fruits,
vegetables and meat, the additional production generated by the project would
have a ready domestic market. The existing network of traditional markets
provide adequate outlets for the farmers' surplus crops and livestock. In view
of the expected continued increase in consumption, import substitution is not
contemplated since the incremental production would be too small relative to
the present import level. Moreover, farm prices which are generally free of
government controls are much higher than those of comparable imports when
adjusted for transport and other costs. This relatively high price level is
expected to continue as a consequence of scarce domestic supplies, high produc-
tion and transport costs, and consumer preference for domestically produced
products but because of this last factor, marketing is not expected to be a
problem.
Procurement
68.       The civil works included in IDA financed components of the project
would comprise: (a) accommodations for ARS staff and other buildings required



- 19 -
for agricultural services costing about $9.4 million; and (b) rural water
supply works costing $3.0 million. Of these, about $2.4 million for ARS
accommodations would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and Credits." Other buildings and water supply works, which are too small and
distributed over time and space to be suitable for ICB, would be procured
under local procurement rules which are acceptable to IDA. The procurement of
equipment ($3.8 million) would be under ICB. Minor items for immediate use of
less than $100,000 each, whose aggregate value would not exceed $1 million,
would be procured through local competitive bidding or international compara-
tive shopping. A 15 percent preference margin, or the prevailing customs
duty, whichever is less, would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluating
bids under ICB.
Disbursement
69.       Disbursements of the proposed credit would be made over four years
on the basis of 60 percent of total expenditure on civil works, 35 percent of
expenditures on rural water schemes, 100 percent of foreign expenditure of
directly imported equipment, 80 percent of local expenditure of imported goods
procured locally, 100 percent of exfactory cost of locally manufactured goods
and 100 percent of expenditure on overseas training, consultants and inter-
nationally recruited experts and 100 percent of foreign expenditure of
feasibility studies for Wadi Jawf.
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
70.       The project has far-reaching implications both for improving the
conditions of rural life and for the structural transformation of agriculture
now under way in YAR. First, by improving human health, providing basic
veterinary services and contributing to raising farm incomes, the project fits
in with the strategy of alleviating poverty while making the structural
adjustments needed to produce more food than in the past. Second, by making
rural life more attractive, it may be possible to slow down the exodus of
labor from rural areas.
71.       The economic rate of return on the project's productive investments
is estimated at 23 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that the project
remains a sound investment with a rate of return above the opportunity cost of
capital (estimated at 12 percent), even with substantial variations in key
assumptions and parameters. The project's economic rate of return can be
considered conservative as no allowances have been made for nonquantifiable
benefits, which include the effect of livestock extension and vaccination on
animal health and production, benefits from demonstration projects such as the
feed mill and the small dairy farms, and social benefits from improved water
supply, improved road maintenance and the long-term demonstration effects on
the agriculture of the Southern Uplands area as a whole. The latter has
already been considerable under SURDP I as evidenced by the sale of fertilizer
and other inputs to farmers who are not directly related to that project.



- 20 -
Beneficiaries
72.       The project would directly benefit about one-third of the rural
population of the Ibb and Taiz Governorates, or about 60,000 rural families,
almost 350,000 people, including about 25,000 families already reached under
SURDP I. Farm incomes for about 35,000 families would increase by about
60 percent during the life of the project or by an average of about 7 percent
annually, mainly through a higher rate of input application, a limited shift
to higher-value crops and selective mechanization. Incentives for tenants to
modernize their agricultural practices and improve income distribution are
to be established once the IDA-financed study on land tenancy and crop-sharing
arrangements (Credit 805-YAR), which has been recently completed by ECWA, is
reviewed by Government and IDA and its recommendations adopted by the Govern-
mnent by June 30, 1982 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.02).
Project Risks
73.       The risks usually associated with agriculture and rural development
projects of this type are minimized or have been taken into account in the
project design. Yield forecasts and the area selected were conservatively
estimated; changes in land use are minor, and there are no organizational or
start-up difficulties, since the project entity is already a part of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the project is the continuation of an ongoing
effort in the same region. Based on experience under SURDP I, it is expected
that in the project's high rainfall and irrigated areas farmers will readily
adopt recommended techniques: the demand for credit attests to this. The
risks associated with rural water supply schemes are also minimal since most
villages have demonstrated their ingenuity and high propensity to save for
contributing their share, or more, of project costs.
74.       The major risks, therefore, arise from staff shortages, failure to
alter crop-sharing arrangements and inflation. The chronic manpower shortages
in YAR and the erosive effects of inflation on salaries paid could hinder the
recruitment of a sufficient number of trained staff and expatriate technicians
needed by the project. The Government has recently taken some steps to raise
the salaries of both expatriates and counterpart staff to compensate for cost
of living increases. The failure to alter crop-sharing arrangements to
provide tenants with a greater share of income derived from the use of modern
inputs and medium- and long-term investment would restrict the number of low
income beneficiaries from agricultural extension and credit. The Government
has assured IDA during negotiations that it will introduce regulations, based
on the ECWA study on crop-sharing (paragraph 72), that would increase the
number of low income beneficiaries. As for inflation, some safeguards have
been built into the project against the risks of rising project costs due to a
rate of inflation higher than the one forecast. Since higher-cost escalation
than anticipated would most severely affect components with a large proportion
of construction, a majority of construction would be under ICB and would be
started during the first three years.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMFNTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness are: (i) the meeting of the conditions of effectiveness and the
ratifications of the IFAD loan agreement and the Swiss loan agreement
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(a)); and (ii) the signing of the
Abu Dhabi Fund loan agreement (Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 22, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                                  Annex I
Page I of 5
YEMEN1. ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A    GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND 50. EM,.)                                                                 -    7MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L.
TOTAL             195.0                                                          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       15.2                                   MDST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA 6            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 A ESTIMATE  b             MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..           ..      520.0                 698.2                     1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         6.3          16.0      48.0                  545.0                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        4.0           4.8       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4             6.0        9.3                  45.7                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2170                       .
POPUILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         21.0         25.0       29.0                   40.7                      28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    263.0          216.0      368.0                  598.6                      81.7
POPULLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.3         44.1       45.8                   44.0                      41.4
15-64 YRS.                           54.0         53.2       51.0                   52.5                      54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.7        3.2                    3.5                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          1.8       1.9                    2.6                       2.7
URBAN                                8.1          7.5        7.7                    4.5                       4.1
CRUDE BERTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.0         54.0      46.0                   41.6                      34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        29.0         29.0      25.0                   13.7                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.5       3.5                    2.9                       2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..                   16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FUOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           119.0         85.0       86.0                   93.5                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     88.0         78.0       91.0                  103.6                     107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            69.0         57.0       68.0                   69.8                      65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0         15.0       19.0                   17.5                      33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        55.0        38.0       31.0                   17.5                       8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0           40.0       39.0                   54.4                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..             ..         ..                     ..                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          4.0       4.0                   62.5                      65.9
URBAN                                 ..         45.0       30.0                   82.9                      80.4
RURAI                                  ..         2.0        2.0                   45.1                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                     ..                      62.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                      79.4
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                     ..                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..     34040.0   13830.0                  4688.7                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..          ..    4931.0                  1751.5                    1227.5
POFULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2901 .0      1552.0    1956.0                   635.5                     480.3
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLI
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        5.0
URBAN                                  ..          ..        4.2/c
RURAL                                  ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        2.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..        1.8ff
RURAL                                  ..          ..        3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                  ..                   56.5/c
RUpAL



-  23 -                                                                Annex I
- 2 3 -                                                       Page 2 of 5
YEMEN . ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          NORTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         10.0      25.0                  76.4                     99.7
MALE                  14.0        18.0       43.0                  92.2                    101.0
FEMALE                 0.4         2.0        6.0                  59.9                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.1          1.0       3.0                  33.3                     34.4
MALE                    *-          1.0       5.0                  41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                 ..          0.1        1.0                  24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0       2.0                   9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         51.0      38.0                  39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                          17.0         24.0      21.0                  25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         3.0           ..       13.0                 39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                  15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         14.0      13.0                 139.6                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                  29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         10.0        ..                  22.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                  2. 8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1225.7       1361.7    1430.2
FE1MALE (PERCENT)                   3.8          4.2       6.0                   9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.2         79.3      76.3                  47.0                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.9          9.0      11.0                  23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0         29.1      28.3                  26.1                     31.5
MALE                                 57.0         55.1      53.6                  47.0                      48.9
FEMALE                                2.3          2.4       2.5                   4.7                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6       1.9                   1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                262.5
RURAL                                ..           ..     100.0                 140.4                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      83.0                 122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah.
April, 1980



- 24-                                                                       Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Note.:  Althcugi tie data ar  d-an  fie source  generally judged the wet authorittice sod reliable, it should alan be noted that tiny my not be micrt-.
tionally comparble bscus  of tie lank of stande-dine  deinitions and noacpt. ossd by differet coutries inoolecbtiog tie data. The date ar, n-nthelxns,
use ful to describeD order  of megnitud, indicate tren.ds, and chaterin  certin major differences  beteeeconris
The adjusted gro_up avrgs      ho    c  indicator arepplatio--eighted g-mtnin sean, excluding ths etem   onion  of the indicator sod tie moot populated
coutry in  ach group.Due to lac  of data, grop  -vrgse 0f .1  indicator  for Capital Surplu  Oil   p-ters and of indicator  of A cones 00 Water sod ER..rce
bisoo, H-isolg, Iooms ;it=etebtiop sdPvety for other conr   rus  r   oelt ios-enightnd geo-tric a-n   itbout exlso    f the  -otrea vlu-  sod
Dbs mos popUlted coutry.  lic  ti:oeaeoIonre  s gteidxtr   eeds onavilabil;ity  of data sod is sot uniform. catls mut in exerised
In relting averae  of  -  indicator to  -sther.  These avenge  aresotly useful  assNroximaicsf "epeted" values shea comaintioinsfcn
indicator at A time sag the .country sod referece grops.
LANDO Anti (tiousad  qr.im.(                                                                  Aco-s  to E bor-t  DPispnl(rrrto   coiain)-ttl                        n.sd rurl 
Pejtal - Petal sufac  a-encprisiog 1sdae  sdild                    etr.Nme   fprop   (tota, urban   n   ua)sre   yvceedosx a
Agricult-rl -  -et recent  _et i:aIr  of  -giutraae   sd temporaily                           percetoge  of their respective popslati-o E.-crta diopoanl sop Occlude
or P-praet ly for  _rPo, Pastoeuoa-bet sod bitobe  gardens or to                           the c-l.l-tico  sod disposal, nit  or cithoot tretmet, of lume  no-eon
lie  WalIs                                                                                 sod  nste-eter by este--b.ran   yot-e  or the on  of pit prir-n  sod c-ila-
iloutalatIo.-
GRP P%.CAPdI-A INP Per celtn estim-tes at curret maket prioes,Mui. 70Jbjpes~4im     - Popuitiot dicided by ounie  of pra-ioiurg phynivikh
calcuated  y se   cosnraiv  moud asWorld Bank Atlas (1976-g basis);            ~      iif d   Wttc     mdiAl school at university Iecel.
1960, 1970, end 197g8 data.                                                                 P'oss.Aaioa see flsima Pecan  - Popltis  dicidd ly outer of pratir-ing male
ENOIsO faitlioiogPEnCAPITA - Annua  cosuption of cnm ieoa  eWrgn  female grdoate osses, pratical nuses, end asintant-nrss
(coal and ligniftPe,    71ioln  natural ga  and hydrn-, roslea  asd Nec-                     doslaispreaia bed-ttlyru.adrrl-Pplto    ttl   r
therma  eetiiy inkilogesm   of coal equivalet per c pita; 196an0rual                                     d pivide  bythi   repective ute  of titapitad -hbed vilabei.   in-
1970  and 1976 data.                                                                          publ   n   rvt   eea   n   pcucdbsptladrhiltt  ncne-
hospitals ar  esttebismnto  permnet ly  taf fed by at leant  -  phynicia-
POUIlATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                                                                  istablinimoto  providing prieripally  -utndla1 ca-n ar  cot i-oloded.  ur-el.
T.t1  pati-0Rd-fea    (ailli-oo) - in of July 1; i760, 1970, sod                              honpinels, h--ce, inclde he-ti and medical cct-r  not peronetly stefid
1977 data.                                                         hy 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~poysiolan  (hut by a andica1.. sistunt, ou-s, sideife,  to chiolh offer
Urba  Ppatios (perent cf total) - Rstic of urban to total population;                         ic-ptient  -c-adation  and proide a limited rage of modioi facilioe-
differet defitt-n  of urban sr-co  may affect cop-bility of data                         Admisnioxe per ho     ItlBd - Tote  nube  o f  dmeioi..  to or dichargec  fr-on
-iogcutries; i960, 1970, and 1975 Onto.                                                 h.sitl  dirtiedI by thlb      ocro  beds.
Pro7 ect Io
,jI            2000o   - Cu'r-crt populotiot pr-jectioo  ar  bood ox              OUSING5
1975 total populatonby age sod  -e  and tieir motality sod fertility                   Average 11cr  f Houshod (po-on  ccc h-xorold) - local, urban, sd rn
rates  frojecaic    srinxtrme  for martlity  -oss coepri  of thre                        A  sueodcmhb  of a  ru  of ladrital   h,o  h-. hIvIng  -ursosd
leel-  asuIn  life- eoet-ny at birthl increaing sbh coutry's                             their male meals.  A hoarder or ledger may or may cot br-inluded in the
per capita incom   level,and feaelife e-pectay sthiliig thousehold for statiotical p-oposes.
77.5 pe-ro   The paramters fotetiiyrteas                  -av    be  level             Arra--eo   esn  see roe  - otl   ni   n   d                          - iceA.Igeume
--numlg decios in fertility sr-coding to i-c  leve  ad pst                               of persn  pr amIs  ll b-s, sad rura  -ecpicd   netre                         dwelling..
family    uing Perforane  inch coutry is then assigned on  of these                      repectively.D1 belig    -olde nun-permnet struture  and oeo-cptd peti..
nice codlnatinas of mortality sod fertility trends for p-jctino                        Access to Electrioity )Peot xf didliboge) -tctalubn  adcrsi.Ie
purposes                                                                                 cetiveal delinssth eletricity In licig quarters as p-r-tgrI'
itotioery enelatic  - Ina otnIv...r-y pupulatio  there is no groth                 ctatl, urban, sod  -ura  d-eingo  respectively.
oloe te brthrat  10q     t.l to he death rate, sod also the age
otrut-r  remins contant. Thio in  ble-ed only after fertility ratne                EiCXATi0Nf
-incest  the  -eyp     n-t level of unit net -epr-udmtic  rate,  h..                  Adjusted Esro1imet hatico
eahgnratio  of 005  r"P"u"e itself c..etly.  The stationay pop-                        Piaysh-              tta,  al  end femle - I..s. total, sal  so  femal  c-oi-
Intion nice  ss e-tieted ca thb bane. of the projeted chrceitcet ofalae tthe primary level as pecetages of repective  primmep
of the population to tic year 2000, nod the rate of declin  nf fertility                   school-age populations.; normaly inoludex children aged 6-11 year  ht
rate to rpaeet           e.adjuted fur dfferet lengths of primay education; for  -outries"ini.
fearniatnnar  noplatin ixreched - Thr yea  div   tatinsar  population                universl eduentino en.o.l t ay eacd l0 poreee  uic-  som  pupils
clue has bees rahed.                                                                       ar  beln or above Ie official seicci age.
P.culatios D-nity                                                                            SecosdAsshof        -ttl  male and fmle  - Cumputed ana. -o;  nods
Pee so. ha. - Mid-yea  popolatiu  per oqua.ce  il-mt-r (100 hetares) of                      eduotiarqre at..e.ut fou  year   f  gproced priary i-ot-utioc;
total ares                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~pr-vlden neev- tisl  or teachr trinig le-truvior; for PupJiu
Per no. ho   glo rl lad - Cuopoted on above foe  gioditural land                             uool   fI   o1   ero  fac.orsodn                          re    r   rrol
Populatio  Age Stteu tu,re  p-r-t( - Childr-c )0-14 year, morkiog-age                        Vonti=olerllet(eCent of  -eodary) - OV-tion..l iristituti-e   nld
(15-h4 yea(  mad reird          51 -er  sod ovr) an pc-rentng-  of  id-year                  techinal1, ioduotria, or other prgsm   ehci  o perte inidepedrotlycca
poulton16, 1970  and 197_ at,                                                          dearmnt   f oedayisitutos
Popltpion~ Iret  nte  preo                     A otl - do   onoh eaten of total mid-         P i-tcer-rtio  - Priay   o   exdr                    totl totodnao :       lr   i
year ppulatins for1950-ArC, l900-70, sod 1970-77.                                       primary and secadary leeodvddby nubes.                 ftecesin t,ecr-
.oculatin droti nate (percet) - r-han - Annual groth roles of  -bso-                           spending le-l..
populations fo- 1950-hO, 1760-70, mad 1970- 75.                                            Adult lit-rac   rste (~coral  - Linerete aduito  able to red noc  -eitrIa
Crude Bitho hate (ec- thousod,) - AnnualI live Bir-thn  pe- thousand of old-a percentge of total adul   poPlitice aged 15 year  sodcoe
yea  pupuloti-n; 1960, 1970, sodI1977 data.
fCdv tenth Ostc (per thcsad( -oA=a dentho per thouusdooefcio-y-a                         C0NSOPprII
population; 1760, 1970  ad197dan                                                         Pausger o-u (per thou-ad pcoulatico)  P- Panueger- cr  coprise ontor,--
dr-co  oR~Prdction nate - Acer-ego oute- of dsughtore n  co   ill tea                        seating leco than cight p-e.x.no;  -olud-o sobolcc, beare  ond military
ix bc- ocr-min rp-crd-toiv  period if ohe -opvri-iv- p--ut age-                            rebiol-
opvvifcc fvetility rater; usoul-y fr-'o-ya  averuges codig it 1760,                      radio  t-ci--r  ~pbr- thosad pcoultiun) - All typ-no   eeoe f               orai
0970, mao 1915.                                                                            hbcadv-tn to g-eera  Jutibc :I per   duo nuf population; cocuor    oineo-
-inup olso-ig- Avoe ptoo  drul(hoad                  - Annual 000cr of                       recivers ti ootiri- and in years shcnr-giotrntion  of -adi-t. veI  en  bo
ovoptroofbi  tcotro1 dr -toroude,  -oPivno   nione  fui ly                          effect; data for-recet y--r asp not be  -opa-ollo  clov  -r-ontri-e
plonolog prugroc.                                                                          aboliohed li-e-ing.
rselp plorcu  -lone  (or-cent of no-cue,d sow enI   Percen.tage  f maried           TV R ocice.. (pee tion-anopopuitio( - TV recive-  I.r vbnovet t1  genera
scr  o   hild-tearing  ag  (15-il yese    hic -r Itirt-I-ote-i dr-vice                pblic Per thosad populatioc;  -coldes uclcr c-1 TV oei, over voutri-o
tv nil ea-ied c-er ic ran  oge group-                                                      ad in peon   h-be  engrot-tis  of TV nets sac in effect.
e.... r efir-culotion  (pertl obosan   ourltio         - S10e- thr .oeroge  iroln
70  Ill NOITID                                                                                of  daily gen.re1 ictrsaoppr,dfndn       e-ois   olvto
Soe   ffod P-od-oio  ce-  cito (l9i9-l1d1)i    - indeno  pr cyt                          devted pri-irily to moor-ding genral o-en.  in in  .o.oid-rd to be "doily"
onol oio_tioc oIf  ll lfcc:      iir    rduction I-cludes orod   d                    if it onpene  ot Ieet fou  timananre.-
frdmd iv on coledar yea-  bo-m    Coend itie  co ver priesey go-do                    Cinem  doAl .. o tt-ndc- Per Ctpito  -c  i-rr- An-d onthIrcusrcrfoi.oektn.
0g   cgor...    orra   fsgr   hioh  -r  edible nod  _cliotrie-to                       cold during  he year-, i-oludiog adin-ion   to dr-ic --in Iio--a  on  cn -'  i
e..cff_c  _   tooI -  Aold)    ggregntv prod-otion of eah  -oony                      ui
in ba..Ied ccotio..l ovrag  peoduver pri- yeoights.
.,_r_pitnouelrf_lor.    ive_en  of reui-ouets  - Cnoyted r                            Ls ABOR COcC'
enegy equivlen-t .f  Ie  food ouppliro .cailubIn in ouotry Pee o-yit                  Total oceFo-cc (tbhu-dn           - Etv-icni1y o-tic-v p--on, i-oludic  or-co
Pr-- day.  A-iOlalIo oupplioc  -pnyio  d-netic p-od-ti-o, iacr,to  loso,                 fooc  n  u ployed bat  -colding loo           tic      rd-oto, etc. lef.iti   - s
o_p-rt, ond chungvroco,tovb.  N,r-nopplie-  -olude onisil feed, or_d,                    icvnoooutri-i   o-rtis  o-par-oble
q_ontiosecodic  food provcoig, sod 1--0c  itdictributi..o - OquiOr-                   fml         rvt      eaebr-          foro v. 00 -yr teog   of t-tl liro for-o..
cet, over ectinnt   by PAl boyd on phbyrioi-0vl or-edo for- some-.                     bgy40-Jy~c                  si- tiev  so fa-iog, fcvrtey, boninga
uvi hi,cu   eot  o id-.,n -oir - venti tenp-rt-c, bcdy s-ighto,                        fiobing  r percetage of total 1bce fcr_o
ag  cod co   ioel.n-t    I popuotiri-, acd nilcuing 10 per-vto for-                    oduxtry (pe-vent) - foci rfv-ov  v citing, vooc.ot-ovoi-,  -anfoc-rigci
na t no hoccbl Iv1-l                                                                 oeotrictIy, otte-cd gs rPer-cetg  of tocal calve for-or.
Pcc -pict  -upply of peuteic (gr-so  pre day) - Ptrotin  -totvc  .r  'c-                 _atopt     bt   pret(-tnlml, and rv-le - lartaienipoti                          r-
onpit~ a-t -upply of f-od pe- day. Nvt -upply of fund is deri-e  no                      actloicy intro  o-c coputed on tota, male, sodfll         d  ioto1  fcrer nor-e-
stove  Oeqoir-nevto  ryllr1  oontvi-c vutblihted by 011A procido  fcr a                  -tngc- of ~totl, nob  ano f-mai  poPointio  zr al 'II          urc_revtiecly;
nui`Tu  alloosoe  _ii 03, gr-Ir  of ovxi pr-t ic pee day soc 20 ges  of                  1960, 1970, sod i9l5 Into.  Thiorar  IllO I por-tiolyat ion rue-        y l-
acnlad pod- protein, of  hidh ii or-to  ooold be unima  protein.                     ag--uvot_r-tu...of th  poolatot  sod long liar trend.  A  -S  ortimtet
Itno  codaroebo   than thm   of 75 grsmo oftotal pe-tin sod                          see from  natioa ..  ooec-c-
115gro A  r--  irn.     trIo noonnr-ae  o  toe nor-do, pr-op-nd by coo~                                "Inn eeneo  b ie   at;v  of PoP.lst~-  orde- I, sod tso  oe  to
in th, Thicrd Wv", I od      ioey                                                         ic labor for-cin, age geoo o,f 1-l  e
lPc  -pitIn p-otoin ucry  ro  ni-          on -plu- >P-oteio o-ply cC food
dr-iced fr-c  ationit ad        I.o,v it geo   ye ody.                              IbbsOW DISTRBUmTION
Ch9.96gj9g,s 14Mor-94titp  RaIn (ec   buad     Oco   ctop tth=_and                         P-rosteg  ofrPriva.te   oom   (botphi onuh and kind) - R~iteoivd by riohert
it age grou  l~l year-, tohildv-  in thim   ago crop; fo-     t de_-5prcn,rces 0peet, p                                      _rnt 20 Pe-crt,odperc  40 percet
vying  .... tr-i_ Iota dorivdfr-nIifr-  otico.                                             of hoonholdu.
HEALTHl                                                                                    POVETui  Y TARGET GOctoP
life 10pc tancy ot teeth (yr-..c   A- derag  cnbco of yr-ar  ef life                       Entientcd Abolo!te Poverty ,2 i       Lue,bor-   US14 poe vaita(    ur1ban en  crnl-
__esiia  at  ir-th; 1760, 1970, sod 1977 . Otto                                            Abaote   oet   oeelvl i_c tint inom   leve  boir  alo ai eioimI
iIfotMortaityRot  (ocr otou-d) - ic-nn   ruthr of infanto  _ne  oecteiti-lIry adequate diet pluo  -rrtisi ova-do  e]  rec   i0 hto
yea  ofaePe- tls--so  lio- bir-oho.                                                        aff-rda1e.
cocs  odaeAter-tcep,-    oropltil-ttl   rban, cd rued  -                           Ptimated Relslice  Povety  I-oa  Ir-1e (US$ per vapies) - ot-lnadrul -1
beoofPeol   oOl o-ton, sdraloit    - . bsonle oc-ecu to                                ocal -cl.ti-e p-octy incom   1en  is ca -tird cfnc-aep-e  -pita
Z-vvtsmiontcsuoosoo  so  "thx  fr-ca proteolcd b-rholec, spriago,                          sitaju-t-et for high-e -ot of living i  orb-to  areas
and ianoay -eile I a  p-rc-tMg- of otoir -ep"ct i orpopultio-olo                      Extientd liopulotico helo  Absolute Pover1t~y Incme  con(?ecI              - or-ho  and
aarb-ba  a-napublic f-otoin or- ctodport 1locutsd not mere than                          rurl        __Pr-oe  of pp tio  (dr-te  an  rurl)d   a-  'aulte  -vr.
I0   otr    realoecyl  ovnd-rd nu being oithio -roaro.ble
100c  0rootvorn    croralorurerco-bc, --os   -Iud isply
clot tIc Ivoo-ito So vesoco  c  tIeh h        hnvold Iv not hove to upend                                                           R oc=c  and dovia1 Da.ta  iio
diopr-p-otioo-tc p... t. tIe dad- in fetching  tI  feolly   otter  ncooesi                                                                 aIpir ad P,oCe-ti-  ropert-tao
_uot 1979



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
- 25 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/                  (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)             1973-79      FY79
GNP at Market Prices                       3810                        11         -4
GDP at Market Prices                       2800                         8          9
Gross Domestic Investments                  900                        19         10
Gross National Savings                      524                        13        -40
Exports of GNFS                              56                        -3        -23
Imports of GNFS                            1441                        21         24
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added       Resident Labor Force '   V.A. Per Worker
US$ Min       %     Thousand          %        US$          %
Agriculture                       1000       38         1450          76         690         50
Industry                           350       14          150           8        2330        170
Services                          1250       48          300          16        4170        300
TOTAL/AVERAGE                2600      100         1900         100       1370        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1975/76    1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1978/79
Current Receipts                 605        1293         1985         2188           13
Current Expenditure              617         841         1250         1839           11
Current Deficit/Surplus          -12         452          735          349            2
Capital Expenditure              361         603         1167         2670           16
External Assistance, Net         635         606          697         1904           11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    2028        3642         5248         6311
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -407          -939         -990         -609
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        566        1474         1555         2199
------Percentages or Index Numbers-------
Money Supply as % of GNP          27          31           34           36
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                   110          80           44           20
Consumer Price Index            17          24           19           22
1/ Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts
series is currently being revised by the Government.
2/ Includes parttime female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



Annex 1
-26 -                            Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1973/74      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob                  14           12           19            7             3
Imports of Goods, cif                -194         -382         -730         -906       -1,405
Trade Balance                        -180         -370         -711         -899       -1,402
Non Factor Services, net                14          21          -10          -21            19
Factor Income, net                    117          479          896         1160         1007
Workers' Remittances, net          (112)        (457)        (842)       (1090)        (898)
Investment Income, net               (5)         (22)         (54)         (70)        (109)
Balance on Current Account            -49          130          175          240         -376
M & LT Capital, net                     62         153          146          165          435
Official Grants                     33          114          104          103          312
Official Loans, net                 29           39           42           62          123
Disbursements                   (32)         (42)         (46)         (68)        (133)
Repayments                      (-3)         (-3)         (-4)         (-6)        (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net           10          -11          133          -32          144
Increase in Reserves (-)              -23         -272         -454         -373         -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 1/            150          520          974         1347         1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1979                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
US$ Mln                                                           %
Total Outstanding           1,075                  Cotton and Cotton Products                31
of which disbursed            543                  Coffee                                    13
Hides and Skins                          14
Biscuits and Confectionary                9
All Other Commodities                    33
100
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79  2/                           RATE OF EXCHANGE
_                       Since February 1973
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                        1.7                       US$ 1.00 = YRls        4.50
YR1 1.00 = US$         0.22
1/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
2/ Includes workers' remittances.
EMlDB
August 1980



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits /1
(As of July 31, 1980 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower        Purpose                  IDA       Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways I                  7.7
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 /2            -
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  11.0          0.44
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply                6.3           -
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate           2.3          0.74
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development          10.0          3.30
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways II                 9.0           -
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage           8.1          1.60
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   8.0          1.40
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing             5.2          2.40
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0          1.94
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0          6.33
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development            6.0          5.21
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways III               11.5         11.20
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture II  10.5              8.91
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution                   10.0         9.16
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
III                     15.0         15.00
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  10.0         10.00
950     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage /3             12.0         12.00
978     1980   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
IV /3                 5.5          5.50
1025     1980   Yemen Arab Republic  Fisheries Develop-
ment /3                 17.0         17.00
Total                                                201.3 /1    112.13
Of which has been repaid                               -
Total now held by IDA                                201.3
Total undisbursed                                                 112.13
/1   Excluding $7 million credit for a textile rehabilitation project which
was cancelled on October 31, 1979.
/2   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/3   Credit not yet effective.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of July 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor               Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978     Yemen Dairy and Juice        Dairy Products        2.4       -      2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                            2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                  -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance, jcintly with
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic
advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The Kuwait Fund
provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is nearing completion. Seven of the twelve institutions
are operational and two more are expected to commence this Fall. All construc-
tion work is completed and the technical assistance and staffing needs have
been met by .he appointment of expatriates from Arab countries. Good progress
is now being made under the Basic Training Scheme.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering are
being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates in Taiz
and Hodeidah are underway and the Government is seeking further assistance in
this from the World Bank.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation had been
encouraging. Project implementation was delayed by managerial, staffing,
and financial problems. Nevertheless, these problems were mitigated by the
momentum and scope of the agricultural extension and credit programs, and the
progress in well drilling, and completing the village water supply components.
Problems of cost escalation have been met by an increase in the contributions
of the Government and beneficiaries, a reduction in the number of loans that
can be made to farmers, and the extent of the feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Following award of the combined water and sewerage civil works and
the electrical/mechanical works contract, construction was initiated in May
1979. Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority
is expected shortly. The Government is currently shortlisting consultants for
the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
All construction is expected to be completed by September 1980.
Contracts for all equipment and furniture have been awarded and delivery is
expected to be completed by October 1980. All twelve institutions are
scheduled to be operational for the 1980/81 academic year. Technical
assistance and staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates
from Arab countries and good progress is now being made under the Basic
Training Scheme.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training in
the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. The silo
and bakeries are operational, and work on the warehouses is virtually complete.
The final report on the National Nutrition Status Survey, carried out in
cooperation with the US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID, is
expected to be presented to the Government in September. Cost overruns on
construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for Development and the Government.
The grain storage survey has been completed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project description was amended to reduce
and/or reorientate some of the components, without changing the project
concept. One dairy farm and the livestock fattening farm are nearing comple-
tion; the establishment is progressing well and the farm has started opera-
tions on a small scale. The other physical works, although progressing
reasonably well at present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughter-
house and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their aims,
and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village development com-
ponents will provide valuable research information, and development experience
for the livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems
encountered earlier in the year are on the way to being resolved, and project
implementation is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All tenders for materials and construction of the water and sewerage
systems have been or are in the process of being awarded. The draft report of
the tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by
the consultant.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works have now been awarded, and construction is expected
to be completed in October 1981, about 9 months behind appraisal schedule.
Other technical staff provided for under the credit are still to be appointed.
The Government is continuing its efforts to recruit qualified staff in order
to strengthen the technical services department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance to
the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance practices.
Other objectives of the project include the implementation of vehicle loading
controls, planning future highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project implementation is underway
and substantial progress is being made on nearly all project components.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama DevelopmentProject (Wadi Rima); $10.5 million
Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing _Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads, village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority Headquarters
at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test structures, and funds
for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the central Agricultural Research
Service. Project implementation, slow in starting due to a delay in credit
effectiveness, is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Implementation is underway, and tender documents for the supply
of equipment and materials have been prepared and issued. Consultants are
carrying out the rural electrification study. Problems facing YGEC are
managerial and financial. However, a general manager has now been appointed,
although the posts of assistant general manager for Administration, Finance,
and Engineering remain vacant. YGEC has secured sufficient funds, from
external sources, to meet the foreign exchange requirements of its current
development program.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0 million
Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal health services, and
agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
managerial, engineering and agricultural fields. After a delay in declaring
the project effective, implementation is now under way.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livestock secondary school and two regional branches of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services
and related training, and of post secondary educational development. Institu-
tional support to the Ministry of Education and the school building unit as
well as related technical assistance have also been included under the project.
Overall project implementation is good. Construction of the Agricultural
Secondary School is about 60 percent completed. Bids for the livestock
secondary school and the two NIPA branches have been evaluated and construction
is expected to start in August 1980. Fellowship programs have been drawn up
and candidates are being recruited for training abroad. The pre-investment
studies relating to post secondary education are proceeding. The pre-
investment study on health care has become part of the preparation assistance
for a proposed IDA-assisted health project.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project would assist in the construction of water supply and
wastewater systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It would also provide
technical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing arrangements
are being finalized. In the meantime final designs are being prepared by the
consultants, and hydrological studies for Ibb are underway.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR-Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 33 -                             ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    Six months (September 1978 -
March 1979)
(b)  The agency which prepared the project:          FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:              March 2, 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         October 6, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:             June 6, 1980
(f)  Expected date of credit effectiveness:          January, 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The ratification and meeting of the conditions of effectiveness of
both the IFAD and the Swiss loan agreements (paragraph 63);
(b) The signing of the Abu Dhabi Fund loan agreement (paragraph 63).
B.   Measures to be undertaken by the Government include:
(1) Presentation by SURDU and ACB of a detailed annual training program
to IDA not later than June 30 of each year (paragraph 57).
(2) Merger of the Ibb and Taiz offices of SURDU with the corresponding
regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture by the fourth
year of project implementation (paragraph 58).
(3) Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit in SURDU and
conducting a mid-project evaluation not later than March 31, 1983
(paragraph 61).
(4)  Adoption of measures to provide incentives for tenants to modernize
their agricultural practices and improve income distribution by
June 30, 1982 (paragraph 72).






'-~  -IB   X 14°~-                                                                                  61RD 14837
;ffiSX k LO^E   < ,  >.^t S   \ S A U D    A R A 8 I A
SAUDDNi¢ b<$-6  _ |  '\ /  ¢   NCI{DYEMEN ARAAS             REMUCLIC 
N''_e  S7o$DPeA c i ,. ,,7    h    a  4    ,.                       SECOND  SOUTHERN  UPLANDS RURAL o
D,,OPron~EELPMN                                       POJC
IY   1PROJECT AREA
PROJ     RJC  ARE MAJO ROAO R
f4:8  0    \   ^)                NAT OrAL CAAAEA,        OTHER ROADS
C0 TITES TOWNS AND V ROANS           S
CNTOURS N METERS        - INTERNATIO(AL A'GNDARiES
INTERNATIONAL  RORTS
20   40 -I     85   100
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DO 40%X;t---- ;
- r<uoe   7< o
100                                                             _
PEOLES DMORATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
E  T H  I   O P I A .z-9............................. -.2t .....       
DJIBOU1                                                                               -
440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4






IBRD 14838
A                                                                          L  SANAA                           )                                   ,   5* RT B   bt
Al ASoC               I - i  5;_. ,p., w                                                                                                                                                               0 *  n.o
N.  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.d,,WTRAARBT
\  /   X---- -                                                                                                                                   U---Tm T. BR,TB /8BmAA
SFAE/A                                                                         p ,ED                                                                                                  PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUTI,.V 'ATD  AREAS   X    ANDA EXESO                                                                                                      CENTER
j  .70 ~~~~POPES_  mrDR YEMOC RATI  REPUBLIC                                                                                     --AA--
IZ\69t                      _ EODSUTHE R ULNS RUA
NV.              .,?                PEOPLE STTBBBRWT  DEMOCRATIC   REPUBL IC                                                   F=OJiCT ARFA                    °      SELECTED VILLAGFS
,5   -^\                B         -2/                                        ~~~~~~YEM\EN--v                                                           EITN_URF|UBRAE
ETHIOPIA                                                                                                                                                                                -  Lc   ET-R                      SELECTED MOTORA-L  TRACE
A.1 ..EA.                      --SAT-A          -A-
tf' j < ,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                  -T9 WATI. A=    -=-E-VNCATl-EUNAR
DJIBOUTI                                   ..-.-.SL   AS                                                                                                                                                            UTVTOAE   (NETAIN
MARCH 198U  A



