Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10165-IN   Type:  (SAR)                      Report No. 10165-IN
HABAYEB, SI X80314 / D10025/ SA2PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1992
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document hlas a restricted distrbution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their officiu?. duties.o Its contents maiy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of October 1, 1991)
Currency Unit - Rupee
Rupee 25.50   = US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00    - US$ 0.04
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m) = 3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)   0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ARC         AIDS Related Complex
CHEB        Central Health Education Bureau
CNB         Central Narcotic Bureau
DGHS        Directorate General of Health Services
ELISA       Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay
GOI         Government of India
GPA         Global Program on AIDS/WHO
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
ICMR        Indian Council of Medical Research
IVDU        Intravenous Drug User
NH)HFW      Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, GOI
NACP        National AIDS Control Program
NACA        National AIDS Control Authority
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
NPCT        National Program Coordination Team
PCT         Program Coordination Team
PSI         Population Services International
PRAD        Physician Responsible for reporting AIDS Diagnosis
PVO         Private Voluntary Organization
SHEB        State Health Education Bureau
SPCT        State Program Coordination Team
STD         Sexually Transmitted Disease
TAC         Technical Advisory Committee
WB          Western Blot
WHO         World Health Organization
ZBTC        Zonal Blood Testing Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AIDS                                        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
(AIDS) is a severe life-threatening
condition which represents the late
clinical stage of infection with the
Human Immunodeficiency Retroviruses
(HIV). This most often results in
progressive damage to the immune,
organ and central nervous systems.
HIV invades the body's defense
system, exposing the infected person
over time to a range of lung
disease, cancers, fungal infections,
wasting, rashes, sores and other
debilitating conditions until death.
There is as yet no cure or vaccine.
Anonymous HIV Testing                      HIV testing performed on blood
samples without personal identity
information which would enable the
laboratory or arn official
unit/agency to trace the results to
the individual. There are two types
of anonymous HIV testing:  in the
first, the individual voluntarily
decides to have an anonymous test
and in the second, the test is made
anonymous by those carrying it out
(unlinked).
Counselling                                 Process of dialogue and mutual
interaction aimed to discuss
problems, facilitate understanding,
and increase motivation. In
counselling, the psychosocial needs
of the individual are taken into
account together with, medical and
legal needs. Counselling is
designed to provide support at times
of crisis, to promote it when change
is required, to propose realistic
action in the context of different
life situations, and to assist
individuals in accepting information
on health and well-being and
adapting to its implications.
Counselling can be a process of
advice-giving or of eduction, or it
can respond to individual
psychosocial needs. In practice,
these different forms of counselling
overlap.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
HIV Screening                              The systematic application of HIV
testing to any or all of the entire
population, selected target
population, donors of blood and
blood products and cells, tissues
and organs.
UIV Testing                                Voluntary serological procedure for
HIV infection markers for an
individual person, whether
recommended by a health care
provider or requested by the
individual.
Savo-positivity                            Test results indicating infection
based on serological testing.
Latent, subclinical infections and
carrier states can thus be detected,
in addition to clinically overt
cases.
Surveillance                               Systematic, regular collection of
information on the incidence,
distribution, and trends of a
specific disease used to plan
effective control of the disease.
Surveillance within the framework of
the AIDS control program includes
two components:  surveillance on HIV
infection and surveillance on AIDS
cases. The AIDS case surveillance
is carried out as a routine
procedure by all medical
institutions serving in- and out-
patients. HIV surveillance
comprises a series of surveys.
Sentinel surveys, initial point
prevalence surveys and repeated
(periodically) point prevalence
surveys in various groups of
behavior are designed to meet
various objectives of the HIV
surveillance. Surveillance does not
include mandatory testing.



v iii -
Unlinked anonymous screening               When blood has been collected for a
purpose other than HIV testing, it
can be used for unlinked anonymous
screening by removing personal
identity information, (but not
demographic data). Each blood
specimen is given a number and the
same number replaces the personal
identity information on the forms.
Thus, the results cannot be linked
with information which would
identify a specific individual. In
this system, people cannot know the
result of their test.
Voluntary anonymous testing                HIV test requested by an individual
can be made anonymous when the
individual does not provide a name
or other information which would
reveal his or her identity.
However, general demographic data
and HIV risk behaviors or factors
can be collected. If voluntary
anonymous testing approach is
selected, counselling resources
would be required, along with a
clear plan for management of people
who after being informed of a
positive result, come forward for
counselling and other services.



- iv -
IVDI
NATIONAL_AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Table. of Cnte_nts
-Page NO.
SI-__ATA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . .                               vi
GRE DITANDPROJECA_YI                                                 . ..  . . . . . . . . viii
I.      MlV/'II_   l,lru           ND    SI
A.   The Issue of the Epidemic  in India:
Background and Dimensions              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
B.   Development of HIV/AIDS Control Activities   . . . . . . . .                           2
C.   Current Constraints on HIV/AIDS Control                    . . . . . . . . .           4
D.   Past Experience          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
E.   Rationale  for IDA Involvement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
II.    THE P JECT
A.   Project OriSins          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.   Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
C.   Project Scope          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
D.   Project Description            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
III.   PROJECT COSTS.  FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Costs.                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
B.   Financing Plan .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          25
C.   Recurrent Costs and Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
D.   Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation              .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
F.   Disbursements          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
C.   Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .    31
H.   Accounting and Auditing              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
IV.      BENEFITS Ag  _RISKS
A.   Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
B.   Risks       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECQMENDATIONS   . . . .     . . . . . . .    35
This report Is based on an appralsal mission that visited India In October/November 1991, and consisted of: World Sank Stf:
Salim Habayeb (mission leader and senior public health physiolan), Damianos Odeh (senlor economist, John Middloton
(senior operations officer and back-up mission ooordinator), A. A. Contractor (publio health specialist) and Suzanne Morris
(senior disbursement offlicer). Rlhard Skolnik (Chief SA2PM) participated In an advisory capaciy. World Health Organization:
Karin Edstrom (Chief, CNPIGlobal Program on AIDS), Olavi Elo (VHO Representative to India), Lv Khodakovich
(WHO medical offloe, Mikal Stampke (technical offioer) and Carol Larivee (health education speclall). Consultants:
Joyce Lyons (Chief Technical Advisor, Asia and Pacific Reglonal Project, UNDP), William Smith (Executive Vice President,
Academy for Eduoational Development, Washington), Eld Dlb (architeot and implementaton speolaillt, John Narkunas
(Assistant Chief for Operations, Epidemolology Branch, Division of HIV/AIDS, US Centers for Dieasoe Control, and Sevg' Aral
(researoh solentist, Divislon of STD/HIV Provention, US Centers for Disease Control). At Headauarters: David Dunlop
(Ad). Prof. of Community and Family Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School and Jlan Mel Gan (financial analyst) assisted In
Impact analysis. General Coordination and Supoer: Edward Davis assisted In preparing the document, graphics and annoxes.
Vivian Mendoza assisted In mission arrangements and cost tables. Marilyn ChatterjI, Janet Nader and Jasvir Shasin assisted In
the mission's preparation. Aruna Chandran assisted In data preparation. Peer.Reviewers: JowLuis Bobadlila (PHRHN),
Mead Over (PHRHIl, James Greene (ASTPH, Michael Porter (ASTPH), Jlil Armstrong (AF2PIt) and Kerin Edetrom (Chief CNP,
WHO, Global Program on AIDS, Genev). The project was endorsed by Richard Skoinik, Division Chlef, India Population and
Human Resources Divsion) and Heinz Vergin, Director, South Asia Country Dopaitment Z



-V
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Profile of Sero-Positive Indians detected through
September  1991.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
2.    Global Distribution, Projections and Dimensions of HIV/AIDS ,        38
3.    Projected AIDS Cases without and with the Project
and Analysis of Return on Investment .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
4.    Impact of HIV/AIDS .4.7............. . . . ....   47
5.    Budget and Finance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
Budget Provision for AIDS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
Pattern of Five-Year Plan Outlays . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
Strategic Plan for AIDS Control . .                                54
External Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
6.    Organizational Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   56
7.    Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   57
8.    Training Plans for the AIDS Control Project . . . . . . . . . .   62
9.    Social Mobilization/NGO Collaboration:  Implementation Matrix .   63
10.   Collaborating Ministries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
11.   Blood Banking Screening Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
12.   Surveillance:  Applications and Techniques  . . . . . . . . . .   72
13.   Operational Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   77
14.   Detailed Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83
Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category (US$)   . . . . . . .   84
Summary Account by Project Components (Rs)  . . . . . . . . .   85
Project Components by Year (Rs)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   86
Financing Plan by Project Components (US$)  . . . . . . . . .   87
15. Schematic Implementation Levels .88
16.   Implementation Schadule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   89
17.   Distribution Network/Medical Store Depots . . . . . . . . . . .   90
18.   Important Indicators Proposed by WHO for Evaluating
the Global HIV/AIDS Prevention Strategies . . . . . . . . . . .   94
19.   Reporting System Outline  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   95
20.   Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   96
21.   Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . .   97
22.   Selected Working Papers and Documents Available
in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   98



- vi -
INDIA
iATXONAL-AIDS CONTRL PROJECT
BASIC DATA
A.    general                                                          a
Total Area ('000 sq. km)                           3,288
Density per sq. km                                   259      1990
GNP per capita (US$)                                 340      1988
Population below absolute poverty level (&)
- urban                                        28       1988
- rural                                        40       1988
Allocation of central govt. expenditure (%)
- health                                         2      1988
- education                                      3      1988
Population urbanized (%)                              27      1989
B.    Population. Heialth. Nutrition and WID
Total population (millions)                          850      1990
Population annual growth rate (%)                    2.1      1989
Crude death rate                                      11      1989
Crude birth rate                                      31      1989
Life expectancy                                       59      1989
Total fertility rate                                 3.9      1989
Current Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                 40      1988
Infant mortality rate (under 1)                       96      1989
Under 5 mortality rate                               145      1989
Annual no. of births (thousands)                   26071      1989
Annual no. of under 5 deaths (thousands)            3780      1989
Population per physician                           2,610      1983
Population per midwife/nurse                       2,251      1983
Population with access to safe water (%)
- total                                         57      1988
- urban                                         76      1988
- rural                                         50      1988
Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORT) usage rate             21      1988
Infants with low birth-weight (%)                     30      1985
Malnourishment (%)
- pregnant women                                50      1985
- preschool children                            50      1985
Pregnant women immunized against tetanus              69      1989
Births attended by trained health personnel (%)       33      1988
Maternal mortality ratio (maternal deaths            400      1988
per 100,000 live births)



v vii -
C.     du'catin
Total adult literacy rate                             44      1985
Male adult literacy rate                              58      1985
Female adult literacy rate                            29      1985
Primary school enrolment ratio (gross)
- male                                        113       1988
- female                                       81       1988
Secondary school enrolment ratio (gross)              27      1988
Enrolment ratios: females as a % of males
- primary school                               72       1988
- secondary school                             54       1988
Sources; World Development Report, 1991; Operations Research Group
Survey; The State of the World's Children, UNICEF, 1991; Social
Indicators of Development, 1990; and Safe Motherhood in South Asia,
the World Bank and Family Care International, 1990.



viii. 
INDIA
RA_TIONAL AIDS CON4TROL X&O-JECT
CREDIT -AND PROJCT  UMR
Bo,rover:         India, acting by its President.
Ban   iciaresk:    States and Union Territories of India.
Amount:            SDR 59.8 million (US$84.0 million equivalent).
Telma:             Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On..lendin  terms: Government of India to the States and Union Territories: in
accordance with standard arrangements for development
assistance to States and Union Territories.
Descriptio:       The project would support the Government's efforts in
controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic in order to preserve human
capital development and to minimize the reversal of health
improvements. The project would constitute a start-up
investment to launch expanded preventive activities in t:he
control of HIV transmission. The ultimate objective of the
project would be to slow the spread of HIV in India so as to
reduce future morbidity, mortality and impact of AIDS.
The project would have a multi-pronged strategy and would
comprise the following components: (a) promoting public
awareness and communigy suRgort with a primary focus on
sexual transmission, behavioral change and condom promotion
through mass media communications nationally; private
advertising agencies; NGOs to reach risk behavior groups in
12 States and Union Territories; and the existing health
system countrywide; (b) improving blood safety from a
current 30 percent to 90 percent of the blood supply, and
enhancing the rational use of blood and the share of
voluntary donations; (c) building surveillance and clinical
management canacity to monitor the spread of the epidemic
and to strengthen the skills of health staff and social
workers in managing and counselling HIV/AIDS persons; (d)
controlling sexually transmitted diseases by improving
clinical services and case management in the country's STD
centers and training private practitioners In metropolitan
areas; and (e) strengthgening the management canacitv for
HIV/AIDS control through the formation and support of
organizational structures at the national and State level.



i x i
heiefi.ts:        The project's interventions would help slow the spread of
the HIV epidemic and would alleviate the burden of HIV/AIDS
on individuals and their household, and subsequently on the
sectoral and national levels. The project would contribute
to preserving health status and previous investments in
health. The project would have a significantly high return
in terms of healthy life years saved. Externalities would
be high and the project benefits would accrue to the society
at large. Most importantly, responding to this priority now
would cost only a fraction of what would be required at a
later stage when the disease is allowed to become more
widespread.
It is estimated that at least 300,000 AIDS cases would be
avoided on account of the project by the year 2000. Direct
and indirect returns would be significant. The project
would have a favocable WID impact by reducing women's
mortality due to AIDS an6 STD morbidity affecting their
reproductive health and would benefit poor segments of the
population and migrant labor. Also, by enhancing
prevention, the project would limit the shifting of health
resources to additional curative care. By enacting higher
standards for condom quality, the project would benefit not
only HIV/STD control, but also family planning programs.
Risks:            There are several risks to the project.  First, changing
people's behavior is a difficult and prolonged undertaking
and AIDS control has no quick solution. This would be
addressed by making the project well focused on key actions
through a multi-pronged approach, by using NGOs to reach
risk behavior groups and by extensive participation of
television and radio stations and the private sector in mass
communication efforts. In addition, this project would be
used to set the basis for more extensive AIDS prevention and
control activities. Second, there are the usual risks of
poor implementation of project investments by a Borrower
whose implementation record is mixed. These would be
addressed by the careful preparation of the project in those
areas that have constrained previous social sector projects
in India, by paying special attention to project management
and implementation responsibilities, and by making good use
during implementation of WHO technical assistance.



Local   Foreign   Total
US$ Million
stmted Projle_L Cost Yg
Strengthening Program Management Capacity          5.5       1.5        7.0
Promoting Public Awareness
and Community Support                           27.2       1.8       29.0
Improving Blood Safety and Rational Use           12.3      17.4       29.7
Controlling Sexually Transmitted Diseases          4.4       5.6       10.0
Building Surveillance
and Clinical Management Capacity                11.S       2 1       13.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                   60.7      28.4       89.1
Contingencies                                  4.8         5.7       10.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                65.5      ALL 99,6
/-a   Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$3.6 million.
Financing Plan
GovernmeT .                                     14.1       -         14.1
WHO                                              0.4       1.1        1.5
IDA                                            51.0       33.0Q      A_L
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               _5,5      34.1       9.
Estimated Disbursements
DA PY          MFY93       FY94       FY95       FY96       FYLFY98
Annual          12.2       20.1       20.3       16.3       14.6        0.5
Cumulative      12.2       32.3       52.6       68.9       83.5       84.0
Economic Rate of Return:       Please see Annex 3.



NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
I. Ey/JAIDS SITUATION IN INDA
A.  The Issue of the Epidemic in India: Background and Dimensions
1.U1        The first person in India recognized to be sero-positive for the
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was identified in 1986 among the
prostitutes of Madras. Since then, surveillance activities have been
gradually expanded to include males and females who practiced multipartner
sex, intravenous drug users, pregnant women, blood donors and recipients of
blood and blood products. The nationwide average HIV prevalence rate in the
surveys has grown from 0.2 percent in 1986 to 1.3 percent in 1990. This
represents a seven-fold increase within five years, which is alarming. HIV
infected persons have been identified in every State and Union Territory where
HIV testing facilities are available. The highest sero-positivity rates and
number of AIDS cases have been reported from Maharashtra State, mainly from
Bombay and Pune. Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) patients and prostitutes
constituted two thirds of the HIV carriers. Out of 5,841 intravenous drug
users (IVDUs) tested in Manipur by January 1991, 1135 were found sero-
positive. It is expected that, with the stepping up of surveillance, more
sero-positive cases will come to light.
1.02        The first case of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in
India was also reported in 1986.  Up to September 1991, 96 clinically overt
cases of AIDS have been reported to the Directorate General of Health Services
(DGHS) of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), and most have
succumbed to the disease.
1.03        Heterosexual transmission is predominant.  In addition,
transmission is facilitated by a high incidence of STDs, especially among
prostitutes and their clients.  Infection is also being spread through
intravenous drug use, especially in the Northeastern States. The blood supply
is unsafe, partly since it depends on professional donors, many of whom are
sero-positive. The distrLbution of 5,706 sere-positive Indians detected
through September 1991 is shown in Annex 1. The vast majority of affected
individuals are young adults in their most productive years.
1.04        Current estimates of HIV prevalence in India vary between 300,000
and 500,000 people, with some estimates twice these figures. Worldwide, HIV
infections are estimated at 10 million people, almost half of whom are women,
and to date about one million children are estimated to have been born
infected. The HIV pandemic is composed of multiple epidemics throughout the
world. The projected annual HIV infections in Asia, Africa, Latin America,
North America and Europe as well as the current and future dimensions of the
pandemic are summarized in Annex 2. A dramatic increase is anticipated in
Asia and, if transmission continues at the same pace as it is now, annual
infections in Asia alone would exceed one million new cases every year by the
year 2000.



-2-
1.05         The potential for HIV spread is high and the epidemic in India,
described as a "silent volcano", may turn out to be the largest in the region.
Prostitution is prevalent in all major urban centers in India. The problem of
intravenous drug abuse is sizeable in the northeast. In addition, police
records indicate heroin use and needle sharing by XVDUs in slum areas,
industrial pockets, commercial and tourist centers, and some universities.
There is a large homosexual population in Bombay. Skin pier'eing practices are
prevalent in the community at large. It is estimated that about 30 percent of
injections performed in public health facilities and by private physicians are
unnecessary and could be easily replaced by oral medication.
B. Develonment of HIVZAIDS Control Activities in India
1.06        HIV/AIDS control programs are in their initial stages and just
beginning (paras. 1.15-1.16). The availability of related services is
limited. The sections below describe what has been initiated so far.
1.07        Institutional Arrangements.  An AIDS task force was established by
the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in 1985 and screening of risk
behavior groups started at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and the
Christian Medical College, Vellore, that same year. The ICMR, in
collaboration with DGHS, also initiated sero-surveillance activities in 1985.
The National AIDS Committee was formed in 1986 under the chairmanship of the
Secretary, MOHFW, and included the Director General of Health Services, GOI;
Director General of ICMR; senior officers of GOI's MOHFW; representatives from
other concerned organizations as members; and the Administrator of the
Voluntary Health Association of India.
1.08        The main function of the National AIDS Committee was to advise
MOHFW on major policy issues and strategies. Representatives from States with
high reported incidence were also invites to participate in the committee
meetings. Several State Governments have assigned staff to AIDS control on a
part-time basis.
1.09        N_ational AIDS Control Prgram.  The Control Program was formulated
In 1987 and included surveillance, screening of blood and blood products,
health education and information. As discussed later, however, present
program activities are limited in scope. The Directorate General of Health
Services within MOHFW is responsible for AIDS control activities in the
country. The DGHS provides the necessary logistics, HIV test kits, spare-
parts and ELISA readers to surveillance centers and training facilities.
1.10        Sero-surveillance. The activities undertaken during Phase-I of
sero-surveillance, in 1985-1986, confirmed the presence of HIV infection in
India. In 1986-1987, during Phase-II, infection among multipartner
heterosexual males, pregnant women, blood donors and recipients was detected.
This phase concluded that multipartner sex played a major role in the
transmission of HIV infection. During the first part of Phase-Ill, from
November 1987 to October 1988, It was concluded that there was a need to:
initiate routine screening of blood transfusions; provide health education to
high risk groups; establish clinical faci'ities for care and counselling;



-3-
develop hospital policies; expand diagnostic capabilities; and initiate
sentinel surveillance. The second part of Phase III, from November 1988
onwards, focused on screening blood donors, blood products, blood recipients,
diagnostic screening and training of personnel. Regarding clinical
surveillance, GOI has sent a group of physicians and nurses abroad for
training in clinical, laboratory and hospital management aspects of the
disease. They have become trainers and conducted courses in the medical
colleges.
1.11        Screeing ofBlood an  Blogd Products. This is a significant
preventive tool since the probability of transmission of HIV infection through
infected blood e,xceeds 90 percent.  Testing of blood donors was started in the
Christian lMedical College, Vellore; Madras Medical College; National Institute
of Communicable Diseases, Delhi; and All India Institute of Medical Sciences,
Delhi. Currently, about one third of the blood supply in the country is being
screened. The zonal referral system has been designed with the idea that a
group of blood banks are attached to a zonal center for testing by the Enzyme-
linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test. There are 1,018 blood banks in the
country handling an estimated two million blood units per annum. The
following is the profile of the blood banks in the country:
Government blood banks               608
Private hospital blood banks         151
Private commercial blood banks       203
Voluntary blood banks                 56
1.12        The Drug Controller 'of India issued guidelines for manufacturers
for rigorous prec&utions regarding the safety of blood products in March 1989.
There are nine manufacturing units in the country: six in Bombay, two in
Madras and one in Faridabad. The following major blood products are produced
locally: ANTI-D Rh Immunoglobulin; Human Normal Immunoglobulin; Anti-
hemophiliac factor VIII; Histaglobulin; Placental extracts; Tetanus
Immunoglobulin; and Albumin. Relevant agencies of GOI including ICMR and four
Referral Centers collaborate in the evaluation of HIV tests available on the
market.
1.13       H&aJ,th Educatoln and Information.  The Central Health Education
Bureau (CHEB) subordinated to DOllS is responsible for promoting public
awareness. To date, the activities of the Central Bureau have included: press
advertisement in important newspapers; display boards; printed material
prepared for different categories of persons including health care workers,
medical colleges, hospitals and State Governments; bus panels developed and
displayed on Delhi buses; and cinema slides released to cinema halls in New
Delhi. Similar efforts have been initiated in the larger cities. Also,
several NGOs have become involved in health promotion activities in the
metropolitan areas.
1.14        With the collaboration of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse
Control, GOI has initiated measures to reduce drug abuse. These include
legislation, communication, preventive education as well as early
identification, treatment and rehabilitation of drug dependents. The CHEB is



-4-
planning to collaborate with the Narcotic Control Bureau to include HIV
related messages in its educational work.
C. Current Constraints on RIV/AIDS Control
1.15        Institutional Arrangements and Scope of Coverage.  Since the HIV
epidemic is relatively recent in India, initial responses and control
activities have been limited in geographic range, population coverage,
resource allocations, and mobilization of other sectors. Access to
communities at risk is lacking. The public sector does not have the capacity
and the resources to effectively reach risk behavior groups. Developing the
administrative structure and capability to manage the program is needed.
Continuous monitoring of the epidemic is vital and surveillance needs to be
broadened. Screening of blood transfusions is now limited to 30 percent of
the blood supply. Mobilization of other Ministries needs to be developed.
1.16        State authorities need to enhance their involvement in health
promotion activities and to develop a better understanding of the options for
community based support for HIV sero-positive persons. Limited capacity of
the State health institutions necessitates wider cooperation with NGOs, the
private sector and other sectors in order to cope with the ensuing health and
societal impact of AIDS.
1.17        Technical and Strategic Issues.  The technical and operational
skills of professional staff needed to deal with HIV control are weak.
Information, education and communication (IEC) skills are required for linking
audience research with strategy and materials development. Current public
sector capabilities are not sufficient to carry out needed communication
activities. The private sector capacity is extensive in India and GOI and
State Governments will need to tap its resources to strengthen AIDS prevention
and control activities.
1.18        Several condom utilization issues are related to the variable
quality of condoms and to the need for promoting their use as a preventive
device. Access to condoms has grown impressively in the country and sales of
the NIROD condom brand have risen from 25 million in the 1960's to about 350
million in 1990. India is currently self-sufficient in condom production with
an operating capacity of approximately 2 billion condoms per year from several
manufacturing plants. However, condoms are seen largely as a family planning
device. Repositioning condoms as an STD/HIV prevention tool with extramarital
or premarital partners presents a significant problem for overcoming prevalent
negative behavioral attitudes of men towards their use.
1.19        Adapting major preventive themes effectively to the cultural and
linguistic variety in India is a challenge. Consumer research and appropriate
integration of condom programming activities with the existing and expanded
capacity of GOI's social marketing program for family planning could
significantly accelerate STD/HIV prevention. Health education to date has
stressed the basic facts of AIDS after using a forceful fear approach. There
are risks of needless fear arousal, misinformation and stereotyping without
offering hope or communicating across the many cultural barriers in the
society.



- 5-
1.20        Since quality control is an essential component for any laboratory
test, strengthening is needed to support the network of laboratories
performing HIV tests. This is of special significance in HIV testing because,
at present, diagnosis is made solely on the basis of laboratory results.
1.21        Existing STD services are underfunded and lack basic resources
such as diagnostic equipment and medical supplies. STD program management
suffers from understaffing at the national level and at the municipal level in
the largest cities. Staff skills require upgrading. Strengthening and
reorientation of STD control constitute long term challenges, particularly for
enhancing the involvement of peripheral health facilities and promoting the
interest and role of the private sector in early diagnosis and treatment of
STDs comblined with condom promotion.
1.22        Although no comprehensive data on the prevalence and incidence of
STDs in India exists, the available information indicates that STDs represent
a serious health problem in both urban and rural areastl.
1.23        STDs are associated with the same risk behaviors that put a person
at risk for HIV infection, and ultimately AIDS. In addition, STDs are now
recognized as an independent risk factor for HIV/AIDS, facilitating both the
acquisition and transmission of HIV. Although STDs pose a serious public
health threat in their own right, being responsible for considerable morbidity
and long-term complications like pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility and
neonatal infections, it is this relationship to HIV infection that renders STD
control imperative in the prevention of HIV infection. First, STD control
would remove these diseases as a risk factor and so reduce HIV transmission.
Second, STD control programs, by providing good quality clinical services to
STD patients, would also provide access to this heterogeneous and often
elusive group. This would provide a unique opportunity for IEC and
counselling.
1.24        agIs   and Ethical Issues.  HIV infection raises multiple social,
legal and ethical issues worldwide. The following central questionall are
often raised in various debates:
(a)   What is the best public health approach to people with HIV
infection and AIDS and what rights should they have?
(b)   Whether testing should be mandatory.  Who should be tested?
(c)   Who has the right to know if someone has the infection? Is there a
duty to warn others?
3  Bang R., Baitule M. et al.  High prevalence of gynecological diseases
in rural Indian Women, Lancet, 1989, 85-89.
21  Connor S.  Issues of the "Third Epidemic" in AIDS: Profile of an
Epidemic, Pan American Health Organization, No. 514, Washington, D.C., 1989, 141-
158.



-6 -
(d)   How can society be protected against people who irresponsibly
infect others?
1.25        All of these questions involve essentially the same analysis.
First, where do we draw the line between the rights of the individual and the
rights of the society?  aegond, how do we balance those interests?  Thi
what is the best way to protect individuals at risk and society as a whole
against the spread of AIDS? And fourth, what relsvant scientific evidence
exists regarding transmission, prognosis, treatment, testing, behavior
modification, counselling, education and informacion?
1.26        These considerations are critical for HIV control, where the
scientific evidence points to spread from intimate behavior censored by most
societies such as multiple sexual contacts and intravenous drug abuse. The
level of social tolerance or disapproval varies widely from country to
country, and every nation also has different traditions governing the strength
of individual rights versus those of the society at large.
1.27        The challenge is to elucidate the best way of protecting public
health from a scientific standpoint without improper impairment of individual
rights. In India, these issues should be viewed in the context of
constitutional protection of individual rights through an independent judicial
branch of government, as well as a constitutional framework within which
public policy is developed and implemented.
1.28        Financial Impact of AIDS and related Issues.  The costs of dealing
with AIDS cases including medical treatment, counselling and care are
significant.  Under current epidemiological conditions in India, it is
projected that about one million clinically overt AIDS cases would result by
the year 2000 (Annex 3). Direct costs of medical care would escalate yearly
to reach a total of about US$1.6 billion equivalent by the year 2000.  The
cost incurred by the Union and State Governments would exceed US$1.3 billion
equivalent during the same period, while the remaining portion of other direct
costs, mainly in the private sector, would amount to US$300 million. The
indirect national income loss is estimated to be about US$1 billion equivalent
for every 100,000 AIDS related deaths.
1.29        Based on available information and related international
experience, the mission estimates that the total direct lifetime treatment
costs per AIDS case in India to be about US$950 at present. This covers the
cost of ambulatory treatment of illnesses related to AIDS (US$20011) and
I, Assuming 30 illness episodes per case due to opportunistic infections
and ARC/AIDS morbidity, of which only 20 episodes would be treated at a cost
of Rs 250 (US$10) per episode.   The cost per episode is derived from the
Household Survey of Medical Care conducted in July 1990 by the National
Council of Applied Economic Research and is adjusted to reflect the most
common morbidity associated with AIDS.



-7 -
hospitalization costs (US$750J). Data also shows that 60% of the illness
episodes are addressed in the private sector and that 90% of hospital costs
are borne by the Government. When quantifying actual health care
expenditures, it should be noted that persons with AIDS seek treatment for
opportunistic infections, cancers and other ARC/AIDS morbidity and are not
necessarily recognized as having AIDS.
1.30        Indirect costs are more complex to quantify.  They cover economic,
social and psychological costs both to the individual affected with AIDS as
well as to the society at large. What is certain, however, is that indirect
costs per AIDS case are much higher than the direct costs of US$950.
International experience suggests a multiplier of no less than 20 times11.
The potential socio-economic impact of AIDS will first be felt at the
household and community level. When the disease disseminates, macro-level
impacts will be observed at the sectoral level and finally at the national or
economy-wide level. At the household and community level there are at least
twelve impacts, from loss of economic security for the remaining members of
the household or community to the additional costs of medical care devoted to
parsons affected by the disease (Annex 4). The toll on family life, on women
in their prime childbearing years, and on the generation of an increasing
number of orphans is profound. Only two items will be quantified here as
examples of the magnitude of such indirect costs; wages lost due to ARC/AIDS
related morbidity prior to the death of an AIDS patient and the income lost
due to early death:
(a)   Lost Wages.  Based on reviews and discussions with health
authorities in India, it is estimated that an AIDS patient would
require about 250 - 300 days of care prior to death. Correcting
for under-age, over-age, and unemployment, among others, about
15011 days of work would be lost due to infections and morbidity
associated with AIDS. Assuming a daily wage of US$4.0, an AIDS
patient would lose about US$600 in unearned wages.
(b)   Early Death.  Approximately 75 percent of HIV infected persons in
India are 20-35 years old. Another 15 percent are in the age
group 35+ and only 10 percent are below 20 years of age.
Conservative estimates imply that an a'-erage of 15 potential
earning years would be lost by an infected person. Adjusting for
unemployment and non-income earning individuals, an average AIDS
AI The mission estimates that an AIDS patient would require about 250 days
of care, of which 10% (25 days) would be hospital care at a cost of Rs 750
(US$30) per day.
Al  Over M. et. al.  The direct and indirect cost of HIV infection in
developing countries. The case of Zaire and Tanzania. The global impact of
AIDS, pages 123-135, 1988, Alan R. Liss, Inc.
3/ 30% due to holidays and non-working days; 10% unemployment factor; and
10% for underage.



-8-
person would lose about eight income earning years. Applying an
average income earned per working person of US$1,050 per year
would mean that about US$8,400 of future income would be lost to
the economy for every case of death of an AIDS patient.
1.31         Present levels of public expenditure on HIV/AIDS control are very
low at about US$1.5-2.0 million per year and the initiation of a major
start-up investment to launch expanded preventive activities is needed.
1.32        During 1986-1991, MOHFW allocated Rs 150 million (about US$6
million) to the National AIDS Control Program (Annex 5, Table 1). Two-thirds
of this allocation was spent on HIV kits and ELISA readers, and the remaining
one-third on health education and training. An additional Rs 85 million
(US$3.4 million) were given to the States to improve blood safety programs
during 1987/88-1991/92.
1.33        Primary health care and communicable disease control have been
receiving a declining share of total health resources. Per capita annual
government expenditure on health and family welfare programs amounts to US$4,
of which the Center spends US$1 and the States about US$3. Public health
expenditures remain extremely dependent on tax revenues. User fees and health
insurance finance a negligible share (2%) of government expenditures.
1.34        India spends about four percent of its GNP on both health and
family welfare programs. While this share compares favorably with the average
for Asian countries (3.1%), it is less than half of the 8-11 percent spent bn
health in industrialized countries. Excluding the family welfare program,
less than two percent (1.9%) of the total public sector resources in India are
devoted to health.  This share of 1.9 percent of the total budget was stable
during the last three 5-year plans, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh, and constitutes
a marked decline from the first two 5-year plans during which, over three
percent were allocated to health (Annex 5, Table 2).
1.35         The Government's Strategic Plan for the Control of AIDS for 1992-
1996 proposes a level of expenditure of US$192 million for the next five years
and is detailed in Annex 5, Table 3. Over the long-term, India will require
additional financial resources to cover the costs of HIV/AIDS prevention and
control including health education, promotion and counselling, all labor
intensive priorities. In addition, there will be an exceptional burden to
deal with the cost of medical care and social support of AIDS patients.
Attention will need to be paid to the sustainability of these efforts,
especially in a period of fiscal retrenchment.
1.36        External Assistance.  WHO has provided US$525,850 in 1990-91 from
the collaborative program as well as US$1.3 million from the GPA/HQ budget for
HIV/AIDS control activities in the States of Maharashtra, Manipur, Tamil Nadu,
West Bengal and Delhi. SIDA has provided US$246,000 and USAID contributed
US$1.3 million for blood screening. The Ford Foundation has pledged
US$150,000 in support of condom promotion activities in the prostitution areas
of Bombay.



9_
1.37        WHO intends to grant about US$5.8 million over the next five years
for HIV/AIDS activities including US$1.5 million earmarked to support the
currently proposed project. EEC intends to contribute about US$700,000 for
health education and training of medical staff in Maharashtra State; USAID is
planning to provide about US$10 million to assist NGOs in Tamil Nadu uuring
1992-1997; and ODA is considering providing US$3.0 million to West Bengal over
the next five years. Other potential contributors to the AIDS prevention
program in India are UNDP, UNICEF, UNPDC and NORAD (Annex 5, Table 4).
D. Past ExMergiene
1.38        There is no past Bank Group experience in financing AIDS control
in India. However, the Bank Group to date has financed one free standing AIDS
project in Zaire, and AIDS components in several projects. In addition,
considerable international experience has been accumulated from both developed
and developing countriesVl. The main conclusions to date include: (a) the
need for speed because intervening at the initial stages of the epidemic's
development has a greater impact and a higher benefit-cost ratio than
intervening at a later stage; (b) the need for a multi-pronged approach while
prioritizing among interventions and maintaining the complementarity of
synergistic efforts; (c) the importance of targeting core groups for cost
effective measures; (d) the importance of controlling STDs; (e) mass media is
important for changing social norms, while targeting specific groups through
direct contact interventions is important for affecting behavioral change
within those groups; (f) socio-cultural determinants are critical for
considering strategies for influencing risk behavior; (g) behavior change is
not only cognitive dependent on perceived personal risk but also situation
dependent; this argues for manipulation of opportunity structures which are
favorable to risk behavior such as those encountered in employment and
migration; and (h) there is a need to go beyond the formal health sector in
multidisciplinary and multisectoral directions.
1.39        The seven World Bank-assisted population projects, one maternal
and child health project, and two nutrition projects in India have generally
been implemented satisfactorily, with modest delays in the early part of the
project. The completed Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project had a very positive
impact on the nutrition status of malnourished young children. The Fourth
Population Project, the Fifth Population Project, and the Health Component of
the Third Calcutta Urban Development Project are ongoing but are already
showing positive results on morbidity and fertility. However, lessons of
experience suggest that greater attention needs to be paid to: the financing
and management of projects; the management and supervision of staff; the
training of personnel, the planning of work routines; and the supply of needed
goods and materials.
1I Over M and Piot P. HIV infection and sexually transmitted diseases.
Forthcoming in Dean T. Jamison and W. Henry Mosley (editors), Dieagggsg ntrol
Priorities in Developine Countries. New York: OxfErd University Press for the
Yorld Bank.



- 10 -
E.  Rationale for IDA involvement
1.40        There are several reasons for involvement, which underline IDA's
strategy for enhancing human capital development in India through high return
investments. They also go along with our emerging objective of assisting
India in controlling major health problems, while simultaneously improving
quality, effectiveness and efficiency of health systems in a sustainable
manner. First, the country is witnessing the emergence of an epidemic whose
potential negative consequences are enormous if left unrestrained. In this
context, it is necessary to assist the Government in reducing the risks of
jeopardizing and reversing health improvements and sectoral achievements with
enormous human, social and financial implications. The detrimental impact on
maternal and child health would be especially significant. Second, the level
of assistance required to respond to the epidemic cannot be fulfilled by other
donors. Finally, there are high direct and indirect economic returns to the
proposed investments.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Qri&Lns
2.01        In 1990, the Government of India, in consultation with 'WHO,
prepared a Medium-Term Plan for the prevention and control of AIDS with an
estimated total cost of US$20 million for three years. Its focus was on the
four metropolitan cities and the States of Maharashtra, Manipur, Tamil Nadu
and West Bengal. The plan was solid and the major States participated in its
design. More recently however, the Government decided to enlarge and
accelerate national prevention efforts. With this in mind, GOI has now
prepared an expanded five-year strategic plan for HIV/AIDS Control (para.
1.35) to cover a broader range of activities and has prepared the proposed
project to cover the most critical interventions over a five-year period.
B. Prolect Objectives
2.02        The proposed project would initiate a major effort in the
prevention of HIV transmission and would constitute a start-up investment to
launch expanded preventive activities. The ultimate objective of the project
would be to slow the spread of HIV in India so as to reduce future morbidity,
mortality and impact of AIDS.
2.03        Operationally, project interventions would seek to achieve the
following:
(a)   involve all States and Union Territories in developing HIV/AIDS
preventive activities with a special focus on the major epicenters
of the epidemic;
(b)   attain a satisfactory level of public awareness on HIV
transmission and prevention;



- 11 
(c)   develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior groups;
(d)   screen the majority of blood units collected for blood
transfusions;
(e)   decrease the practice of professional blood donations;
(f)   develop skills in clinical management, health education and
counselling, and psycho-social support to HIV sero-positive
persons, AIDS patients and their associates;
(g)   initiate the strengthening of STD control; and
(h)   monitor the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country.
C. Prolect Sope 
2.04        The project is based on a centrally sponsored scheme for which the
Union Government would bear all costs. The scope of the project would vary
with each intervention, taking into account need, absorptive capacity,
feasibility and efficiency. The scope of major interventions is elucidated in
the following matrix of main project interventions. Training and mass media
would be national; blood safety interventions would include the majority of
blood bank centers; targeted health promotion is expected to be undertaken in
at least 12 States through NGOs. The enhancement of STD control would involve
all the public health sector's STD centers and the training of private
practitioners would be done mainly in the four largest metropolitan areas.
D.  Proiect Description and Strategv
2.05        The Project would take a multi-pronged approach that would focus
on the most critical interventions to begin limiting HIV transmission today.
It would also set a basis for more extensive HIV/AIDS control activities in
the future. The proposed project would take account of currently available
scientific information and the lessons of experience from AIDS control
worldwide (para. 1.38). Project activities would be integrated to the maximum
extent with the existing health infrastructure; they would also make extensive
use of the private sector and NGOs in areas in which they have a comparative
advantage.  The project would consist of the following components:
(a)   Strengthening the Management Capacity for HIV Control;
(b)   Promoting Public Awareness and Community Support;
(c)   Improving Blood Safety and Rational Use;
(d)   Building Surveillance and Clinical Management Capacity; and
(e)   Controlling Sexually Transmitted Diseases.



- 12 -
2.06        The matrix on pages 14 and 15 summarizes the constraints on
existing HIV/AIDS prevention efforts, activities proposed to address them, and
the outcomes that are sought.
STRENGTHENING HIV_CON_TROL MAAGEMENT CAAIY  U        Z. Millign.L1
2.07        Institutional limitations are major constraints to the
implemeutation of HIV control activities, as discussed earlier. While overall
policy regarding AIDS control would be coordinated by GOI through an
interministerial committee, GOI has designed the following structures
(organization and terms of reference in Antnexes 6 and 7 respectively) in order
to coordinate project implementation:
(a)   Gentrnl level: (i) Board for the Prevention and Control of AIDS
acting as the executive body within MOHFW, vested with
administrative and financial powers, chaired by the Secretary of
Health, and includes a representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(ii) National AIDS Control Authority (NACA) acting as an
operational body for day-to-day implementation; and (iii)
Technical Advisory Committees (TAC) for social, ethical and legal
issues; IEC; condom programming; STD control; NGOs; blood safety;
epidemiology and research; case management; and women & children's
health. TAC would include representatives of leading
institutions, the private sector and NGOs; and
(b)   State level: AIDS Control Cells and Empowered Committees.
2.08        Strengthening Central and State Management Canabli_ties.
The project would strengthen and develop program planning, coordination,
management and monitoring capabilities at the national and State levels to
deal with HIV control, providing technical and operational support to
organizations and staff who are implementing project activities. To achieve
these aims, the project would provide consultant services, training,
computers, typewriters, photocopiers, office equipment, MIS materials, IEC
materials, vehicles, incremental salaries for additional staff, civil works,
and operation and maintenance of vehicles and MIS office equipment.
2,09        Gentral Level.  A National AIDS Control Authority (NACA) would be
formed prior to credit effectiveness and would be headed by an administrator
with adequate seniority and experience. He/she would act as Project Manager
and would be assisted by two technical officers of the rank of Deputy Director
General, responsible for implementing activities connected with surveillance,
training, case management and blood safety. A Director (Media) would be
appointed to coordinate lEC activities with Central/State Education Bureaus,
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, private agencies with expertise
in production of media software, and non-governmental organizations that would
be involved in promoting IEC in groups practicing risk behavior. The staff
would include a director for finance and accounts, a director for procurement,
an administrative officer, field monitoring staff and support staff.



- 13 -
2.10        The NACA would function as a Secretariat for national AIDS
control, for the Board and the technical sub-committees. An office facility
would be built at a site owned by MOHFW in New Delhi to house the NACA team
and WHO resident technical assistance. The NACA team would be responsible for
planning, coordinating, managing an-1 monitoring project activities. Ths
central ooordinating staff of NACA are critical to the successful start-up and
execution of the project. A condition of effectiveness would be that the
Government shall establish and thereafter maintain a National AIDS Control
Authority, with adequate full-time staff, other resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and that the designated staff shall have
commenced work.
2.11        Stati' _leyel.  The National AIDS Control Authoricy would operate
through State AIDS Control Cells and Union Territory (UT) Cells that would be
established in the Project States and Project UT's Ainistries of Health and
financed by the project. Each AIDS Control Cell in the larger States would
have an Additional/Joint Director assisted by two Deputy Directors and three
support staff. Control Cells in smaller States would have one Deputy. The
Cell would be responsible for planning, coordinating, implemenAing and
monitoring project activities in each State. The terms of reference of the
State AIDS Control Cells would be in line with those of NACA, and adapted as
necessary according to conditions in each State. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that, except as IDA may otherwise agree, it
would cause project States and Union Territories to establish by a date agreed
with IDA and maintain AIDS Control Cells in their respective Departments of
Health, with appropriate staff and resources, for planning, coordinating,
implementing and monitoring isplementation of the project in the concerned
State or Union Territory.
2.12        In order to implement this institutional development componenc,
the project would provide both NACA and the States with inputs listed in par%.
2.08 above and consultant services with terms of reference agreed with IDA.
The Association reviewed at appraisal the schedule for staffing the national
and State Cells. It is expected that 80 percent of the State/UT staff would
be appointed 3 months after endorsement of the project by the Union Cabinet
following negotiations; and 100 percent, six months later. A condition of
disbursement for expenditures incurred by any State or Union Territory would
be that the Borrower furnish IDA with a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to
IDA from that State or Union Territory. Those letters would outline how each
State/UT would carry out its part of the project. Such letters will also
refer to the considerations discussed in paras. 3.22-3.23.
2.13        Training.  The project would finance training workshops to train
38 trainers, 168 high level officials from the Center and the States/UT, and
130 mid-level administrative officers. Training location and duration are
shown in Annex 8. In order to coordinate AIDS control activities with other
sectors, NACA would liaise and establish working relations with other
A State - State/Union Territory



- 14 -
SUMMARY MATRIX OF MAIN PROJECT INTERVENTIONS AND THEIR SCOPE
Project
iS                                                 intervention
Limited capacity to                                Develop organizational structurq
manage and coordinate                              and skills; provide Information
control activitles                                 support and technkc'al assistance
Lack of awareness on                               Informatlon, education and
risk behavior                                      communlatlon through mass
medla, little medla, private
advertising agencies, health
education bureaus and through
health staff
Lack of access to                                  Targeted health promotion
risk behavior groups/                              Interventions Including condom
communities                                        use through NGOs
Lack of skills to manage                           Train',0g health staff and
HIV/AIDS patients and to                           medilcal social workers
provide counselling
HIV transmisslon                                   Develop blood screening
through blood                                      capabilities
transfusions
Increased risk of HIV                              IEC
transmission through sold                          Expand voluntary donor base
blood                                              with NGO assistance
Develop plan for phasing out
sold blood In future strategic
plan
Insufficient supply of                             Establish component separation
blood components                                   capabilities In larger blood
centers
Inefficient management of                          Strengthen management tearis,
blood transfusion services                         monitoring and Inspections
Lack of quality control In                         Training and certification of
private blood centers                              FDA Inspectors and enhanced
monitoring
Limited Information on the                         Develop capability for swreening,
epidemic's development                             research and surveys
Sexually transmitted                               - Strengthen STD servces through
diseases catalyze HIV                               training and provision of
transmission                                         iaboratbry equipment,
medical supplies, early diagnosi s
and therapy, condom promotion
- lEC
- Training private practitioners
In metropolitan areas
- Develop plan for further expanslon
of STD control In future
Inadequate quality of condoms                      Enact higher standards for condom quality



- 15 -
Expected
National AIDS Control Authority                Institutional development In
and States AIDS Control Celia                   HIVIAIDS control management
NaSlonal                                       Increased knowledge of risks
Reduction In risk behavior
12 States                                       increased condom use and
tO0 NGOs                                        capacity building for NGOs
Natlonal                                        Capacity building for better
care, psychological support and
fostering the spirit of understanding
and compassion for HIV hfected people
608 blood banks including                      Increase blood safety from 30%
118 zonal centers, upgrading                    to 90% In 1996.
90 banks, 30 component
separation and rapid dlagnostic
tests In remaining banks
National                                        Safer and more adequate blood supply
30 Centers                                      Rational use of blood and
resources, reduction of
of whole blood use
National                                       Improved management efficlency
and quality control
Private blood banks                             StandardizatIon and Improvod
leveI 0f performance and safety
Selected samples throughout                     Avallability of Information for
the country                                    the epidemic monitorin and
measuring Interventions ffect
All 372 SD clinics                              Reduction of morbidity associated
of the pubilo health                            with STO and reductlon of HIV
sector                                          transmission
National
Metropolitan areas/ and
red-light districts
Natlonal                                       Inc.ased effactiveness In
the prevention of
HIV/STD transmisslon



- 16 -
ministries, social institutions, religious organizations and NGOs, and would
assist them in establishing their own AIDS coordination committees and
designating a liaison officer. NACA would provide these sectors with the
necessary technical advise for promoting HIV prevention end coping with AIDS.
Overseas fellowships and study tours are planned by the Government, but would
be sponsored by multilateral and bilateral grant funds.
2.14        taning: for ,thefuture.  The project would be a first critical
step in strengthening control interventions and institutional capacities for
dealing withl HIV. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that it would develop under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and provide
to IDA by June 30, l995, a strategic plan, for the next phase of the
Goverrament's progl'am for HIV/AIDS control. The tentative outline of the
strategic plan has been agreed at appraisal and the final terms of reference
would be agreed with both IDA and WHO prior to drafting after the project's
mid-term review planned around December 1994. The plan contents would be
similar to the current strategic plan that was developed with the technical
collaboration of WHO and would also include: the role of the private sector,
the role of other ministries, sustainability of interventions, feasibility of
cost recovery in blood testing, control of sexually transmitted diseases,
phasing out of paid blood r!onations, feasibility of using disposable syringes
and needles, medical waste disposal, expanding control interventions and
surv kllance in semi-urban and rural areas, counselling and home care.
The project would provide funds for the preparation of subsequent investments
in AIDS control. Also, the proposed project would include funding for the
preparation of health projects in other critical areas of priority in health.
This would further strengthen institutional capacities to deal with key health
issues.
PLIOLAA- NES1 AND COMITY SUPPORT Q6SS1. Million! 3l.3%
2.15        In order to support the promotion of public awareness and social
mobilization, the project would provide for IEC materials, consultant services
and private advertising agencies, radio and television advertisement/publicity
services, NGO services, audio-visual equipment, HIS materials, training,
workshops and conferences.
2.16        GO  is emphasizing three objectives for its mass awareness
strategy within the national effort seeking to attain behavioral change that
would contribute to the reduction of HIV transmission: (a) promotion of safe
practices including safe sex, use of sterilized/disposable needles, use of
uninfected blood and blood products, and upgrading the standards of health
care; (b) Influencing sexual behavior patterns in the society; and (c)
improving the knowledge of risk behavior groups, potentially vulnerable groups
and health service providers about HIV and AIDS. Based on currently available
information, It in clear that prevention of sexual transmisslon in urban
centers throughout the country would be a major priority since sexual
transmission can be reduced through informed and responsible behavior. The
IEC strategy would depend on two components:



- 17 -
(a)   Mass media: for creating a favorable environment towards
prevention, providing critical information and facilitating
adoption of safer practices in the community across the whole
social fabric; and
(b)   Interpersonal communication and focused health promotion
interventions largely to persons practicing risk behavior: face
to face contact with: (i) commercial sex workers and their
clients; and "madames" and 'supervisors" who influence decisions
related to condom use; (ii) IV drug users and STD patients; (iii)
vulnerable persons likely to engage in risk behavior practices
such as migrant workers, truck drivers and adolescents; and (iv)
persons at risk of acquiring the infection due to factors outside
their control such as mothers, and patients in need of blood or
blood products.
2.17        Although categorization of the target populations does not apply
homogeneously throughout the country, GOI would follow three broad assumptions
in project implementation:
(a)   Access to risk behavior groups through the existing government
machinery is inadequate from the point of view of both resources
atnd staff attitude. Since NGOs often have more effective access
to the community thian governmental institutions, it is imperative
to reach such groups through the channels and services of NGOs who
can provide intensive interpersonal communication and promote
condom use.
(b)   The role of NGOs and action groups in HIV control is currently
marginal and requires motivation and stimulation by the States.
So far, there has been no significant HIV/AIDS control
interventions by NOOs as much of the current NGO movement is
characterized by a heavy dependence on government aid.
(c)   Among the rural communities, it is the Government and not NGOs
that would need to be the key actor, utilizing several formal and
informal communication channels available; health workers, trained
birth attendants, anganwadi workers, school teachers, village
headmen, private medical practitioners, women's groups, and
others.
2.18        Operationally, this has led GOI to adopt several approarhes under
the project through the services of: (a) NGOs to reach risk behavior groups;
(b) television, radio and private sector agencies for mass media; and (c) the
existing health system infrastructure and resources.
2.19        Non-Governmental Organizagtjns.  NGOs would be selected in urban
areas for working among risk behavior groups and the services of about 100
NGOs would be engaged in at least 12 States. The NGOs would be selected
through proposal assessment in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to IDA. The process of collaborating with NGOs would be
characterized by transparency in selection, flexibility of targets, and



- 18 -
accountability. The implementation matrix for NGO collaboration is shown in
Annex 9. Funding levels would be set by the State Empowered Committees and
State AIDS Control Cells. One autonomous institute of social sciences would
be designated in each State as a nodal agency and would be assisted by the
project to train, monitor and facilitate the work of NGOs. The nodal agency
would liaise with the State AIDS Control Cell through an NGO adviser whose
consultant services would be engaged on contract tG the Cell. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that non-governmental
organizations participating in the Project would be selected on the basis of
criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
2.20        The nodal agency would assist NGOs in developing their capacity to
provide education and counsellinig services and to monitor performance. Its
tasks would include identification and mapping of the NGO network; training in
communication skills and counselling; project preparation and financial
management; motivation of new NGOs through workshops; operational research;
development of teaching materials for NGOs and associated software as required
in their interaction with risk behavior groups and lastly, in regions lacking
NGOs and public services, take up training of professional social workers for
working in such areas.
2.21        The project would finance the nodal agency's consultant services
and its inputs in NGO staff training, preparation of modules and IEC software.
The project would also finance the establishment of a documentation center for
reference use by NGO staff to obtain adequate information and to raise
technical standards. Another advantage of collaborating with the nodal
institutions is that, at the end of the project, a good resource center would
remain with the required expertise and infrastructure to sustain related work.
2.22        The project would also finance workshops for twelve nodal agencies
responsible for coordinating 100 NGOs involved in health promotion work with
high risk behavior groups. A staff of three would be trained from each nodal
agency, followed by the training of five persons from each of the 100 NGOs,
aggregating to 500 trainees. The purpose would be raising NGOs capacity in
preventive activities, program design and management skills.
2.23        The Pri_ate Sector.  Services of private advertising agencies
would be utilized for mass media interventions and development of media
software. The primary targets would be the urban and semi-urban populations.
During the first two years of the project, the development of uniting themes
and messages and communication software would be centralized. Due to cultural
and linguistic diversities, the States would be progressively assisted to
develop materials targeted toward their own populations building upon the
central messages. The Empowered Committee (para. 3.10) at the Center would
include senior IEC officials of MOHFW, representatives of key departments
having production capabilities or dissemination infrastructure, including the
Ministries of Education and Information, and communication experts to help
formulate the media strategy, identify communication needs, specify messages,
identify agencies for the production of software, coordinate with the Ministry
of Information in the production and dissemination of information, and



-19-
identify agencies capable of designing research protocols and carrying out
operational research.
2.24        Software, including printed materials, audio-visuals and slides to
be used in the mass media channels and by field workers would be developed by
commercial advertising agencies. The agencies would design the media
strategy, develop prototypes and arrange for the printing of the materials in
regional languages to be supplied to the State AIDS Control Cells.
Concurrently, creative talents existing in the Government line agencies would
be identified and provided with training for taking up design and production
of software. This would be valuable for: (a) institutionalizing and
internalizing sensitized and trained human resources; and (b) ensuring
coordination of project messages with family welfare and other health
education programs to avoid the emanation of conflicting messages.
2.25        Radio and lTelvision Advertisement/Publicity Services.  Such
critical services for the dissemination of mass awareness would be procured
directly from the Ministry of Information's radio and television stations in
aecordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
2.26        The Existing Health Infrastructure.  The resources in the existing
network of the health system would be utilized to contribute on a sustained
basis to the dissemination of information and health education to their
clients in both urban and rural populations under their jurisdiction. This
includes health personnel, training institutions, health education bureaus and
health extension educators.
2.27        Training of primary health care workers would be implemented
within the existing infrastructure. Health workers would receive training in
communication skills, condom promotion and counselling. Since access to rural
men and seasonal migrants, and the mobilization of community leaders
constitute a continuous challenge, training would include not only skill
upgrading but also understanding how to utilize available human resources -
traditional birth attendants, private practitioners and other sectoral/village
based functionaries. The Government intends to encourage the establishment of
community groups with wide participation to facilitate the flow of information
at the periphery, to promote safe practices and later to provide support
services for the affected families. In order to orient health staff to meet
the community's questions about the infection and to raise their skills in
interpersonal communication primarily with risk behavior groups, the project
would finance IEC in-service training for health staff (Annex 8) and
counselling training of medical social workers in 130 medical colleges and
social workers in STD clinics.
2.28        Intersectoral Coordination and Conferences for ORinion Leaders.
A commonly encountered attitude towards AIDS is that it is "someone else's
disease", which delays the development of timely interventions. Mobilizing
political and so-ial leaders is critical in addressing this issue. Conferences
for opinion leaders would be held annually at the Center and the States.
Representatives of Union and State governments including members of
parliament, ministries, social and religious authorities, industrial groups



- 20 
and senior administration and police officers would be invited. Participants
would be briefed on the following subjects: (a) AIDS situation in the world,
countries of South-East Asia, and India; (b) prospects on the epidemic's
development; (c) major policies of GOI on HIV prevention and control; and (d)
expected support to MOHFW from various sectors and social and non-governmental
organizations. The project would finance these conferences, involving about
10,000 persons.
2.29        Ministries and Agencies (Annex 10) including Education, Women and
Child Development, Labor, Youth, Police, Rural Development and Social Welfare
would be prepared for their roles during the National and State workshops
financed by the project. The purpose of training would be to increase
knowledge about HIV transmission and its prevention and to develop program
strategies which would integrate HIV/AIDS information into existing
educational activities of the respective institutions. Training of Ministry
cadre would be conducted by Core Training Teams which would be established at
selected Government institutions: the National Institute of Health and Family
Welfare in New Delhi and State Medical Colleges.
BLOQD SAVETY.AND_RATIONAL USE (US=34,6 million: 34.8%)
2.30        Most of the blood donated in the country is handled in the urban
areas of the country. In the four metropolitan cities of Bombay, Delhi,
Madras and Calcutta, 29 zonal blood testing centers have already been
established (Annex 11). Blood transfusion screening capabilities are also
available in 37 other centers in the country. The objective of the project
would be to expand coverage from a current 30 percent to about 90 percent of
all blood donated in the country.  The proposed project would: develop HIV
testing capabilities in 52 zonal centers to reach an aggregate of 118 zonal
centers; upgrade 90 blood banks, establish blood component separation
capabilities in 30 centers; and provide the remaining peripheral banks
mainly in district hospitals with rapid HIV tests. An aggregate of 608 blood
banks would have HIV testing capabilities at the end of the project period.
2.31        In order to attain this objective, the project would finance the
provision of laboratory, blood banking and component separation equipment and
supplies, HIV and Hepatitis B tests, medical supplies, air conditioners,
training and IEC. The project would also provide for computers at the State
level, MIS materials, and incremetutal salaries for additional blood banking
staff. In addition, the project would support 25 centers in order to perform
Western Blot confirmatory HIV tests when medically warranted to individual
sero-positive persons, and these facilities would be designated as reference
centers. Each of these centers would be linked with 6-7 blood screening
facilities for quality control. Selected reference centers would also
collaborate with relevant GOI agencies including ICMR in the evaluation of HIV
tests available on the market.
2.32        Training blood banking staff would be carried out by referral
centers at their own laboratories. Training of reference laboratory staff
would be undertaken in four advanced laboratories. The project would provide
salaries of incremental staff at the reference centers which would be



- 21 -
reinforced by a post of deputy director or technical officer to monitor the
laboratories subordinated to them. Local and international consultant
services would be provided to NACA in order to improve reporting and quality
control, referral, program monitoring, supplies management, maintenance, and
training of personnel involved in the HIV screening network.
2.33        In order to protect laboratory and blood banking technical staff
and medical staff from exposure to HIV infected blood, the project would
finance protective clothing, gloves, and infection control medical supplies.
Provisions would be made for safe disposal of HIV positive blood and serum
samples and instruments by incineration, or disinfection by glutaraldehyde and
sodium hypochlorite.
BUIDIN  CAACIY FR SRVILLANCE AND CLINICAL MANAGEMEN
(US814.5 million: I4.6%)
2.34        Surveillance is synonymous with information gathering and analysis
for disease monitoring purposes. It in the ongoing scrutiny using methods
distinguished by their practicability, uniformity, and rapidity, rather than
by complete accuracy. Its main purpose is to detect changes in trend or
distribution in order to initiate investigative or control measures.
2.35        In order to support surveillance activities and raise clinical
management skills, the project would finance training, provision of laboratory
equipment, HIV tests, medical and laboratory supplies, audio-visual equipment,
consultant services, surveys and operational studies, IEC materials, MIS
materials and operation and maintenance of audio-visual and laboratory
equipment.
2.36        As noted earlier, surveillance has been limited in scope and there
are information gaps on the spread of HIV in India. Hence, this component is
aimed at monitoring the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and acquiring
information for programming control interventions. The network of facilities
with HIV screening capabilities serves some or all of the following functions:
sero-epidemiological surveilldnce, AIDS case surveillance, blood screening,
confirmatory tests, specific research, and voluntary blood testing.  HIV
surveillance does not require identification of infected persons. Therefore
unlinked anonymous screening would be used. Surveillance applications and
techniques are described in Annex 12. For individual voluntary testing and
referral cases, confidentiality we-ld be exercised and the training financed
by the project would include learning about the legal and ethical
responsibility to preserve confidential information.
2.37        HIV testing capabilities would be provided to 100 sites throughout
the country. Sentinel surveillance sites would be selected where a
predetermined number of persons from identified groups are routinely tested in
a regular and consistent fashion, thus providing program management with an
inexpensive and regular flow of data to monitor infection trends. Sentinel
surveillance would include: (a) STD clinic attendants; persons practicing
multipartner sex; and intravenous drug users; (b) inter-city bus and truck
drivers; pulmonary tuberculosis patients; and (c) populations without



- 22 -
identified risk: out-patient attendants; antenatal clinics attendants; and
voluntary/replacement blood donors. In addition, HIV point prevalence surveys
would be conducted in 10 selected sites every year. Point prevalence surveys
would be repeated at established intervals in order to evaluate the impact of
interventions. The sites would be selected by the States in consultation with
NACA on the basis of social, demographic and epidemiological indicators to
represent various patterns of HIV transmission and stages of epidemic
development. Technical and operational support for the surveys would be the
responsibility of the State Program Manager in the AIDS Control Cell who would
be assisted by the State epidemiologist on the methodology of sample selection
and reporting. The State Program Manager would participate once a year at a
national level review and training session. Cities with good performance in
applying surveillance techniques would be selected for field demonstrations
and training seminars.
2.38        In order to strengthen skills related to HIV control interventions
and surveillance, and in order to manage the rising number of HIV carriers and
the gradual development of manifest AIDS cases, training would largely involve
medical, nursing and laboratory staff. A core training team from the 130
medical colleges would be designated and oriented as trainers.
Administrators, medical social workers ansd private practitioners would also be
included. Nursing staff would be trained on clinical management and
counselling according to guidelines for counselling and psycho-social support
developed by the national coordinating team.
2.39        Under the project. operational studies would be undertaken in
order to improve action programs and services. They include two main groups:
(a) socio-behavioral studies; and (b) epidemiological and intervention
studies. A summary of proposed studies is shown in Annex 13. The project
would finance the cost of these studies under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA and their results would be reviewed with IDA. The final objectives and
design of the operational research would be determined by the requirements and
stage of development of interventions. The studies would generate data
quickly and provide information on the effectiveness of project interventions,
socio-cultural information to increase the acceptability of interventions and
information regarding the feasibility of new strategies. The objectives of
this operational research would be to collect baseline information for
planning and programming; measure changes in behavior relevant to HIV
transmission, primarily regarding condom use in prostitutes and their clients;
assess and allow for adaptations in control interventions before replicating
in other areas; measure process and outcome indicators for evaluation
purposes; assess mass awareness campaigns; and provide quality control.
CONTROLLING SEKRUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES (USS1I.5 million: _11.61)
2.40        In order to address the issues raised in paras 1.21-1.23, the
project would initiate the strengthening of STD control. The main objectives
for this component would be to: initiate early and timely diagnosis and
treatment; promote STD/HIV prevention knowledge and the use of condoms; and
emphasize the importance of treating partners/contacts in the community.
Toward these aims, the project would improve and strengthen clinical services



- 23 -
and case management in STD centers of 130 medical colleges and in 242 STD
municipal clinics in the 13 largest cities and in all State capitals. These
clinics cater for the urban population, to clients of the city's "red light"
districts, and to referred patients from semi-urban and rural areas. While
these clinics would target populations in the multiple epicenters of the
Indian epidemic, this strengthening would also constitute a long-term
investment by enhancing a nucleus network supporting the health care system at
large and enabling further future strengthening at the primary health care
level.
2.41        The project would finance training workshops for: (a) 75 key staff
responsible for STD control at the national and State levels; (b) 25 trainers
who would provide in-service training for 1,062 staff in 372 STD clinics
throughout the country; and (c) 1,000 private practitioners involved in STD
control practice in the four metropolitan cities of Bombay, Madras, Delhi and
Calcutta.
2.42        As noted earlier, (para. 1.18), there are a. number of problems
related to the use of condoms, including their quality. In conjunction with
the project, the Government provided assurances at negotiations that it would
by September 30, 1992, promulgate and thereafter maintain and enforce
regulations requiring that all condoms manufactured or sold in India conform
to quality standards established by WHO. Schedule R to the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act, 1940, would be amended by GOI to establish revised minimum
quality standards for condoms. A transitional period of about one year after
amendment of the Act would be allowed before all condom manufacturing and
sales would fully conform to the new standards.
2.43        The project would provide laboratory equipment and supplies for
STD diagnosis; medicines for STDs; medical supplies; consultant services;
training; operational studies; incremental salaries for additional staff; and
equipment maintenance. STD educational messages would be integrated in
HIV/AIDS educational materials. Also, as noted earlier, long term STD control
would be addressed in the plan of action for the next phase of investments on
AIDS prevention and control (para. 2.14).
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Costs
3.01        Summary of Costs.  The total cost of the project, including taxes
and duties, is estimated at about Rs 2,912.8 million or US$99.6 million.
Taxes and import duties would be about Rs 104.2 million or US$3.6 million
equivalent and the net of tax cost of the project is US$96.0 million. The
breakdown of costs of the proposed project by component and subcomponent and
by categories of expenditure is summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 respectively.
Detailed costs of the project by component, categories of expenditure, and
year are given in Annex 14.



24 .
TLbWEao3:     DM tsbv0omQonsnt
Strengthening Proam
Management CQ4a ty             1309.0     39.70     179.00        0.48       1.65     7.04
Promoting Publlo Awareness
and Community Support          004.12     45.34     739.40       V7.22       1.78    20.00
Improving blod safety
and Ratlonal Us                313.2*    445.10     7638         12.28      17.48    20.74
Controlling Sexually
Transmitted DIlease            112.37    142.78     255.16        4.40       0.e0    10.00
Bullding SurveIllane and
Clini  Management Capaoity     Z97.30       2       339.6n ,58   aa          &        iB
Tatal Base Costs              1,540.1    725.33   2.272.24       00.06      28.44    09.10
PhyalOContIngenlos            97.05    70.38     108.30        3.64       2.78     0.60
Pce Contingenies              272.68    100.55    472.23        1.00       2.38     3.8a
Total ConUngencies            370.63    200.00    e4O.83        4.84       5.04    10.43
Totl Proot0Coat.              1117.64    9-0523   2,C12.70       6560       3410    0906
-_                                               =S, 
Not      tnclusiveol tXes and duties etmated at US$.o million equivent.
Figures may not add due to rounding.
Table 32:      tbCateoies of Exendlture
Ruosa (Milin                  U0 (Million)l
Catl"oyofExpenditure                Local  Foreign      TOtl    _ Local  Foreign    Total
0vIsl Works                          4.70     1.91      0.01        0.18     0.08     0.20
Professional ericee                  1.03     0,19      1.27        0.04    0.01     0.05
FurnIture                            2.32     0.23      265         0.00    0.01     0.10
Equipment                           49.00   174.04    223.13        1.93    0.82     8.75
Vehicles                             0.73    0.67       7.40        0.20    0.03     0."
Medical end LaboratorySupplies     201.80   470.87    072.07        7.91    18.47    20.38
IEC MaterIs                         85.80    8.07      44.83        1.41    0.35     1.70
M MedIcinns                         39.83     7.04     48.02        1.60    0.28      1.84
Ml8 Materials                       70.02    17.08     83n.7        27       0.s     3U8
Local Training                     ao.30      -       30.30        10.60     -       10.00
NSOServIces                        198.41     -       194.60        7.70     -       7.70
Loo Consultant SerIces            147.90     -       147.00        0.80     -       6.80
Forelgn Consultants                  0.05    23.20     33.15       49       4091     1.30
6tudies                             33.30     -        33.30        1.31     -       1.31
Publiity OsMose                    104.00    18.24    182.33        0.44    0.70     7.4
Workshope                            4.1      0.45      4.5a       0.o       0.02    0.18
Subtotal                          1,30.44   723.40   2.092.00      63.70    28.37    82.07
.   AfB-Vnt Ofe
Salares o0f ddiIonal Staff         141.04     -       141.94        8.07     -       6.57
Opetlon and Maintenance             38.53     1.87     37.eO        1.      0.07      1.40
Subtotal                           177.47     IA?     17M.34        0O      0.07     7.03
Yoal BasCode    7     2      L  2725.3    2      4       gLe.s    UH       1o
Contingenes                        370.03    200.0    040.83        4.4      0.4    10.41
Totl Project code        107.5   905.23    2012.77       06.50    34.10    00.00
Nowt Inclu4si od taxes nd duties eaUmstsd at USS.S milon equivalent.
FIgures may not add due to rounding.



- 25 -
3.02        Baais of Co_st Etmateas.  Estimated equipment and vehicle costs
are based on lists developed by GOI and the States/UT and include import
duties and taxes. Costs of medical supplies and materials and furniture are
based on GOI and the States' estimates and reflect current prices. Estimated
costs for incremental staff salaries and operation and maintenance are based
on current pay scales and norms used by the Central Government and the States
including standard allowances for social and other benefits applicable in the
States.
3.03        Continencyv Allow nces.  Project costs include physical
contingencies (US$6.6 million) estimated at 104 for physical components and at
5% for technical assistance, salaries, and operation and maintenance costs.
The estimated costs of the project also include price contingencies (US$3.9
million) to cover expected price escalation at the following rates: for goods,
salaries and technical assistance, foreign costs 3.9% from PY92 through FY96;
local costs 7.0% in FY93, 6.5% in FY94, 6.0% in FY95 and 5.5% in FY96 and
FY97.
3.04        Foreian Exchange Com3onent.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of US$34.1 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign
exchange proportions as follows: (a) civil works, 15% (b) furniture, 9%; (c)
locally produced equipment, 35%; (d) locally produced vehicles, 9%; (e)
imported equipment and goods, 90%; (f) foreign consultants, 70%; (g) locally
produced IEC and MIS materials, 20%; and (h) operation and maintenance, 5%.
B.  Financing Plan
3.05        The financing plan by project component and by categories of
expenditure is summarized in Annex 14. The estimated total project cost of
US$99.6 million would be financed by an IDA credit of US$84.0 million
equivalent, which would cover about 87.5% of costs net of duties and taxes, or
97% of the estimated foreign exchange cost and 83% of the local cost of the
proposed project. The Government of India would finance 14% of the total
project cost or US$14.1 million equivalent. This would include all taxes,
estimated at US$3.6 million.
3.06        The remaining cost of US$1.5 million, or 1.5% of the total project
cost, would be provided by parallel grant financing from WHO. The WHO grant
of US$1.5 million would finance foreign consultants. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the WHO Grant would have been fulfilled.
C. Re_current Costs.ad Sustainablitv
3.07          The project's interventions are largely preventive and recurrent
costs generated by the project would be a negligible part of Union and State
expenditures on health at thW.s time. Nonetheless, project-assisted activities
wo'ld need to be sustained and to grow for some time within serious budgetary
constraints. The project constitutes an integral core of the Government's
plan to combat HIV/AIDS and the Government's commitment to this objective is
very prominent. A more significant and consequential issue is the cost of



- 26 -
deali.ng with AIDS patients, which will escalate progressively during the
decade and beyond. In this context, the Bank and MOHFW have initiated a
collaborative study on health financing. This review will help identify gaps
in the financing of sectoral interventions and how they can be effectively and
efficiently met. Intermediate outputs will. be available by December 1992 and
the final output by July 1993. This would include measures related to the
prevention of HIV transmission. In addition, the sustainability of national
control interventions would be further addressed in the strategic plan for the
next phase of interventions (para. 2.14).
D. Implementation
3.08        The project would be largely implemented and integrated through
the existing health infrastructure, private sector agencies, NGOs, and the
Ministry of Information's mass media institutions. The schematic
implementation levels are shown in Annex 15 and the implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 16. General implementation responsibilities would be as
follows:
(a)   Central Components: GOI would coordinate the project, carry out
major procurement, and develop policy and technical guidelines.
IEC interventions would be implemented through the services of the
Ministry of Information's television and radio stations, private
advertising agencies, and the existing health system. GOI would
pass to the States/UTs the goods procured and would bear the
entire project costs borne by the States and Union Territories,
including incremental salaries for additional staff.
(b)   State1l Components: the States would be responsible for the
implementaticoi of project activities in the States or Union
Territories through the State AIDS Control Cells as necessary
according to State work plans that are in general conformity with
the priorities and strategies defined by GOI. NGO services would
be engaged at the State level. The State would pass to the
Municipalities the required resources for STD control, IEC and
training. The State and Union Territory AIDS Control Cells would
report to NACA at the Center and their functions would be
facilitated by the formation of Empowered Committees, as discussed
below (para. 3.10).
3.09        Project ManaSgement.  NACA headed by the Project Manager (para.
2.^4) would be responsible for the operational day-to-day implementation of
the project and would liaise with IDA. NACA would allocate funds for
implementing agencies and would maintain project accounts. NACA would work
out/update annual work plans in consultation with State AIDS control staff who
would review the plans and progress in implementation on a quarterly basis.
It should be underlined here that several States participated with GOI and WHO
during 1990 in the planning and development of the Medium-Term-Plan for AIDS
I/State - State/Union Territory



- 27
Control which provided an initial basis on which the proposed project was
developed (para. 2.01).
3.10       'Emoowred CoMMittes.  In order to expedite the release of funds
and decision making at the State level, project States/UTs intend to establish
Empowered Committees under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary, or another
senior official. The Health Secretary would be Member-Secretary of the
Empowered Committee. Members would include the Secretaries of Finance,
Planning, Welfare, Education, Labor, and Urban Development. NCO
representatives would be included and/or invited. Such Empowered Committees
would ensure that funds allocated by the Government of India for undertaking
activities through the State Government Departments as well as through NGOs
are released promptly. Such Empowered Committees would review progress in
implementation and resolve administrative and financial bottlenecks.
3.11        The Role of WHO in the Project.  WHO has played a pivotal role in
collaborating with the Government in project design and preparation. It has
been assisting the Government in HIV/AIDS control activities since 1986 and
has assisted GOI in developing strategies and plans for AIDS Control. The
general role of WHO in health programs and in the AIDS Control Program in the
country is significant and the level of its assistance to AIDS Control is
discussed in paras. 1.36-1.37.
3.12        During the proposed project, WHO would assist in: (a) provision of
international technical assistance; (b) carrying out international procurement
of blood bank and STD laboratory equipment, condom quality assurance
equipment, HTV tests and medical supplies on behalf of the Government; and (c)
provision of technical support and advice to GOI and State Governments in
project management and evaluation.
3.13        Status of Preparation.  A team of senior MOHFW officials led by a
Joint Secretary of Health and the Director of International Health have been
leading preparation activities since May 1991. The team is assisted by three
resident WHO/GPA experts. In addition, WHO provided the services of six
international consultants to assist MOHFW in the preparation of working plans
for blood safety; surveillance; information, education and communication;
condom programming and STD control. As noted earlier, a detailed project
proposal has been prepared. In addition, action plans have been prepared for
key states; remaining plans are under preparation. A planning and training
workshop has been held with the participation of the States and UTs in
addition to a coordination meeting with the States' Secretaries of Health.
3.14        Lists of equipment, medical and laboratory supplies have been
prepared and were found to be satisfactory at appraisal. The proposed
procurement of critical medical equipment and supplies from WHO is expected to
facilitate and expedite implementation. Standard bid documents developed and
approved under the Technician Edutcation Projects would be used by the
Directorate General of Supply (DOS&D) for the procurement of much other
equipment and goods. Training plans are adequate. In-service training of
primary health care staff would be undertaken in the existing structures. A
list of operational research topics has been prepared. MOHFW has identified



- 28 -
the general terms of reference for the participation of private advertising
agencies for software development and distribution.
3.15        Lo istics and t  adipal S o   Or a ization.  The provision of
major project supplies including HIV tests would be undertaken on a regional
basis by the Medical Stores Organization through its medical store depots
located in Madras, Bombay, Calcutta and Delhi. This process is currently
ongoing and the network's recent performance is satisfactory. Within MOHFW,
the Medical Stores Organization is a wing of the Directorate General of Health
Services and the network reports to the Center and not to the States. The
distribution network is shown in Annex 17. GOI is also planr.ing to use its
three other medical store depots in Hyderabad, Karnal and Guwahati.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.16        NACA would be responsible for all operational aspects of project
implementation, and both NACA and the Board (para. 2.07) for project
monitoring and evaluation. Progress would be reported quarterly by the State
AIDS Control Cells to the National Program Manager. Annual progress reports
would be submitted to the Board, National Committee and the Technical Advisory
Committee. The project would finance annual review workshops. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would review with IDA
annually by December 31 each year the progress of project implementation over
the preceding twelve months and an annual work plan for the next following
twelve months.
3.17        Benchmarks for monitoring implementation of the project were
included by GOI as input and process indicators for each project component in
the detailed work plans of the project proposal. Operationally, assessing the
attainment of project objectives would be based on indicators related to the
eight topics listed in para. 2.03. In addition, impact indicators would be
assessed by GOI in collaboration with WHO. Also, operational research
findings would assist in evaluating and improving action programs and
services. Research findings would be linked with further implementation and
guidelines as necessary. Additional important indicators that are proposed by
WHO for evaluating the global prevention strategies worldwide are shown in
Annex 18. WHO resident staff in India would provide technical support to GOI
in project monitoring as needed.
3.18        A comprehensive mid-term project review would be carried out at
the end of the third year with the participation of international consultants.
The mid-term review would examine operational, technical, managerial and
financial aspects of the project. A protocol for the evaluation would be
developed six months prior to the review in collaboration with WHO resident
staff. The findings and recommendations of the evaluation would assist GOI in
future programming and in drafting the strategic plan for the next phase of
intervention (para. 2.14). The Government provided assurances during
negotiations that it would carry out with IDA a mid-term review of project
implementation, prior to March 31, 1995, and that it would take into account
comments and suggestions made by IDA at such review during project
implementation thereafter.



- 29 -
3.19        At the State level, project administration and monitoring would be
undertaken by the State AIDS Control Cells (para. 2.11). The State team would
be responsible for ensuring coordinated planning with the Center, monitoring
of implementing institutions in the State, providing technical support and
funds to implementing institutions, and ensuring technical and financial
reporting to NACA at the Center.
3.20        The reporting system for information and coordination of the
project is outlined in Annex 19. MOHFW already collects information on
current control efforts through the existing syst-em. Implementation progress
would be reported quarterly by the State AIDS Cells to NACA who would then
compile the reported information and issue it in the form of a quarterly
newsletter to all concerned institutions and States. Quarterly and annual
reports from the States and the Center would constitute a major cornerstone
for the progress review. Annual progress would be reported to the National
Committee, Board, Technical Advisory Committee, States and Union Territories.
3.21        The frequency of reporting would be as follows: AIDS case reports,
monthly; HIV screening sentinel reports, quarterly; HIV time-limited project
reports, on completion; research/studies, on completion; operational reports,
quarterly/annually; and financial reports, quarterly/annually.
3.22        Ebkcal. Standards for Project Intervention Strate-gies.  GOI has
stated its unequivocal support for the policy of humane treatment of persons
affected by HIV/AIDS as articulated in Resolution WHA41.24 of the World Health
Assembly. This decision of GOI is consistent with worldwide recognition that
programs for the prevention and control of AIDS should be planned and
implemented in a manner that ensures the humane treatment of affected persons.
Such humane treatment is an essential pre-requisite for an effective long-term
policy for the prevention and control of AIDS.
3.23        The Government informed the Association that it intends to
promulgate by December 31, 1992 policies and guidelines concerning legal and
ethical issues consistent with internationally accepted principles and
procedures in this regard including relevant resolutions of the World Health
Assembly and recommendations of the WHO Global Programme on AIDS Nanagement
Committee.
3.24        Accordingly, the project would assist the Government in creating a
framework for the provision of heajith, psychological and social support to HIV
infected persons and AIDS patients and would help in reducing the impact of
AIDS in accordance with adopted resolutions WHA40.26, and WHA41.24 of the
World Health Assembly. The aim would be to: foster the spirit of
understanding and compassion for HIV infected persons; protect the rights and
dignity of HIV infected persons; avoid discriminatory action agair-st, and
stigmatization of HIV infected persons; ensure the confidentiality of HIV test
results and case reports; and promote the availability of social services
including confidential counselling.



- 30 X
3.25        Counselling services would be available to the affected
individuals and their families on their request and would not be imposed on
them. The purpose of counselling support for persons with HIV and AIDS would
be to: offer explanation and help the individual to understand the
significance of having HIV or AIDS, motivate the in-rfected individual to
minimize the risk of transmitting the infectior. through the use of condoms,
and assist in preserving psychosocial needs of the individual and his/her
family, including guidance on lifestyle, adjustment, and maintenance of good
health for as long as possible.
3.26        At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would
establbsh by October 31, 1992, and then maintain a Technical Advisory Sub-
Committee on Social, Ethical and Legal Issues, according to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association. The sub-Committee would put in place and
monitor the operation of effective procedures through which affected persons
could express grievances and seek resolution of concerns.
3.27        IDA Proiect Sunervision Plan.  The approach to supervision would
be to focus on key project issues and on arising constraints to successful
Implementation. Field visits would focus on selected sites for indepth
assessment of implementation progress. Tripartite supervision with MOHFW, WHO
and IDA would be undertaken and would be enriched by the local knowledge of
issues identified by the project team, the technical advisory committee, and
the WHO resident technical mission. The proposed schedule and quantitative
inputs are outlined in Annex 20. However, the skills and resources required
may vary over time since the epidemic is not a static event.
F.  Disburse_ents
3.28        Disbursement Percentages.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed
against 100% of foreign CIF and local ex-factory costs and 80% of other local
costs of equipment, vehicles, furniture, IEC and MIS materials, laboratory and
medical supplies, and STD medicines; 90% of civil works and 90% of local
consultant services; 80% of NGO services and training; 95% of
advertisement/publicity services; and an average of about 75% (90% until March
31, 1994 and 60% thereafter) of local incremental expenditures on salaries of
additional staff and operation and maintenance of vehicles and office and
laboratory equipment.
3.29        Reguired Documentation.  Disbursements for goods, consultant
services, NGO services and training under contracts valued less than
US$100,000 equivalent, and for incremental operating costs, would be made
against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation in support of SOEs
would be retained by the States for expenditures incurred by the States and by
MOHFW for expenditures incurred by the Center.  This do,umentation would be
subject to annual audit and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications.



- 31 -
3.30        Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements and to
provide for direct payment of eligible expenditures, a Special Account would
be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of
US$5.0 million, equivalent to four months of estimated disbursements through
the Special Account.
3.31        Retroactive financing up to SDR 2.1 million (US$3.0 million
equivalent), or 3.6% of the proposed credit, is provided to cover eligible
expenditures after October 31, 1991. These expenditures would be incurred
after appraisal. Procurement arrangements, as well as the purposes for which
the items would be used, were reviewed and found appropriate.
3.32        Disbursement Profile.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over five and one half years (Annex 21). The standard profile for PHN
projects is a seven-year average and such projects include a substantial
amount of civil works. The proposed project aims to develop HIV prevention
activities quickly in largely existing infrastructure and the standard profile
does not appear to be appropriate for comparative purposes. In addition, the
proposed project conforms with the Government's VIII Plan period. The project
is expected to be completed on March 31, 1997 and the Credit closed on
September 31, 1997. Annex 21 shows forecasts of expenditures and
disbursements.
0. Procurement
3.33        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  The
Directorate General of Supply (DGS&D) would handle all bulk procurement of
equipment and other goods under ICB and LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Major contracts for equipment and medical supplies would be procured partly
through ICB mainly for blood component separation equipment and supplies
(US$7.7 million) and partly through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Contracts for the purchase of items valued at below US$200,000 equivalent each
may be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA up to an
aggregate of US$8.0 million equivalent. Civil works of about US$0.3 million
would be undertaken through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Other items or
groups of items valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent each may be procured
by the States, Union Territories and the Center up to an aggregate of US$14.4
million equivalent using local or international shopping. Medical and
laboratory equipment and supplies (US$19.8 million) would be directly procured
from WHO.
3.34         Procurement would be packaged and bulked to the maximum extent
possible except for vehicles (US$0.3 million) needed by all States and Union
Territories where services and maintenance would differ. For comparing
foreign and local bids in ICB, qualifying domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty
applicable to competing Imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower.
3.35        All items procured under lCB procedures, as well as the first
three LCB contracts for equipment, laboratory and medical supplies, IEC and
MIS materials, STD medicines, vehicles and civil works would be subject to



- 32 -
IDA's prior review, which would also be required for equipment and laboratory
and medical supplies procured from WHO and valued at US$200,000 or more.
Approximately 41% of the value of the IDA credit would require prior review,
but this is acceptable given the above procurement arrangements with WHO, the
nature of the project, and the very satisfactory performance of DGS&D in
previous projects.
3.36        Contracts for the hiring of consultants would be awarded according
to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Consultant services and NGO
services would be subject to prior review and approval by IDA for those
contracts of US$100,000 equivalent and above. However, the terms of reference
for such consultants would be subject to prior review by IDA.
Advertisement/publicity services for mass awareness would be procured directly
from the Ministry of Information's radio and television stations through
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
3.37        The table on the following page summarizes the project elements
and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
H. Accounting and Auditing
3.38        The project expenditures incurred by the Center and by each
participating State and Union Territory would be subject to the normal GOI and
the participants' accounting and auditing procedures, with the added
requirement that MOHFW would maintain a separate project account. At NACA and
the State AIDS Control Cells, a record of all project transactions would be
maintained with appropriate support documentation for the transactions.
3.39        Audits of Central and State accounts, the Special Account and
financial statements of the project including a separate opinion on Statements
of Expenditures (SOE), would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. Documentation supporting
SOEs would be maintained at least one year after the completion of the audit
for the fiscal yoar in which the last withdrawal was made. The Special
Account woultz show all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and
reimbursed by IDA, and balance at the end of each accounting period.   The
c'-  lidated audit reports would be submitted to the Association not later
than nine months after the end of each financial year. The audits will cover
all project expenditures until such time as the credit has been closed.
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01        The project's interventions would help slow the spread of the HIV
epidemic and its burden on individuals, families, and the society. It would
alleviate the socio-economic impact on the household and subsequently at the
sectoral and natlonal levels. The project would contribute to preserving
health status and previous investments in health. The project would have a
significantly high return in terms of healthy life years saved. The control
of HIV infections would contribute to the containment of pulmonary



- 33 -
Table U3, SumMary of,Poosd_ Procurement Arag2m_en_ts
(US$ million)
Procurement Method      Total
Project Element                          IOB        LOB       Other N.B.F.        costs
1. Works
1.1 Civil Works                       -         0.3        -         -          0.3
(0.3)                           (0.3)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment,                        7.7       8.0       34.22/     -         49.9
Vehicles, MIS &                 (6-9)      (7.2)     (30.8)               (44.9)
IEC Materials,
Medical & Laboratory
Supplies, STD Medicines
& Fumrture
3.  TraininglTechnical Assistance
3.1 Local Training,                   -          -        16.8       -         16.8
and Workshops                                       (13.0)                (13.0)
3.2 NGO Services                                 -         8.3       -          8.3
(6.5)                (6.5)
3.3 Local Consultants                 -          -         7.6       -          7.6
and Studles                                          (6.8)                 (6.8)
3.4 Foreign Consultants               -          -         -        1.5w        1.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
4.  Publcifty Seivices                     -         .          7.7       -          7.7
(6.9)     -          (6.9)
S.  Miscellaneous
5.1 Salaries of Additional            -          -         5.9                  5.9
Staff                                                 (4.4)                (4.4)
5.2 Incremental Operation               -                    1.6       -          1.6
and Maintenance of                                      (1.2)                (1.2)
Equlpment and Vehicles
TOTAL                                 7.7       8.3       82.1       1.5       99.6
(6.9)     (7.6)     (69.6)    (0.0)      (84.0)
N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed.
Note : Figures In parentheses are the respective amount financed by the IDA Credit.
at      Laboratozy and medical equipment and supplies estimated to cost US$19.8 millon would bo prooured from WHO.
kl      Cofnanced In prraiiel by WHO.



34 -
tuberculosis, which is exacerbated by AIDS. Externalities are high and the
project benefits would accrue to the society at large. Most importantly,
responding to this priority now would cost only a fraction of what would be
required at a later stage when the disease is allowed to become more
widespread.
4.02        It is estimated that at least 300,000 AIDS cases would be avoided
on account of the project by the year 2000 under a conservative scenario of
effective prevention estimated at 30 percent. It has been estimated that the
project would help avoid about US$489 million of direct health care costs
between 1994 and 2000, of which about US$388 million;/ would be the
Government's share (Annex 3). The project would, by the year 2000, also help
avoid a loss to the national income ranging from US$2.5 billion to US$3.0
billion equivalent&i. Hence direct and indirect returns would be
significant.
4.03        Program Objective Categories:  Poverty Aspects.  Poor segments of
the population such as migrant labor and commercial sex workers are at high
risk of HIV infection. The project would target these groups. It would slow
the rise in the number of orphans. More importantly, by enhancing prevention,
the project would limit the inevitable shifting of health resources to
additional curative care often consumed by the middle and upper socio-economic
classes. WID Asgects. The project would contribute to alleviating the number
of infections transmitted to women. It would help mitigate conventional
sexually transmitted diseases, largely affecting women's reproductive health
and which are responsible for considerable morbidity and long-term
complications like pelvic inflammatory disease and neonatal infections. In
addition, enacting higher standards for condom quality would benefit not only
HIV/STD control but also family planning programs. Private Sector Aspects.
The project would support the development of both the private sector and NGOs
role in HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and care activities.
B. Risks.
4.04        There are several risks to the project.  First, preventing AIDS
depends largely on changes in people's behavior. There is no "quick" formula
for achieving these changes and they may take a prolonged time to achieve.
This would be addressed by making the project well focused on key actions in a
multi-pronged approach, by using NGOs to reach risk behavior groups and by
It ERR - 26.7 percent. The rate relates to the investment in the proposed
project and the projected direct cost (to the Government) associated with AIDS
cases that would be avoided if the project is launched. The rate is calculated
using the Internal Rate of Return method (discount rate at which the present
value of total Lnvestment equals the present value of total direct cost avoided).
When the direct cost to the private sector is included, ERR is calculated at 31.1
percent.  Should.indirect costs-re-lated to national income losses  be included.
ERR would incrase substantially, Also. significant benefits beyond the year
2000. related to the latency period between infection and clinically overt
diseaue. are not included.
LI At 1992 prices. Assumptions are listed in para. 1.30b.



- 35 -
extensive participation of the television and radio stations and the private
sector in mass communication efforts.
4.05        Second, there are the usual risks of poor implementation of
project investments by a Borrower whose implementation record is mixed. These
would be addressed by the careful preparation of the project in those areas
that have constrained previous social sector projects in India, by paying
special attention to project management and implementation responsibilities,
and by making good use during implementation of WHO resident technical
assistance.
V.  AGREE      REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01        During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a)   except as IDA may otherwise agree, cause project States and Union
Territories to establish by dates agreed with IDA and thereafter
maintain AIDS Control Cells in their respective Departments of
Health, with appropriate staff and resources, for planning,
coordinating, implementing and monitoring implementation of the
project in the concerned State or Union Territory (para. 2.11);
(b)   develop under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and provide
to IDA by June 30, 1995, a strategic plan, for the next phase of
the Government's program for HIV/AIDS control (para. 2.14);
(c)   select non-governmental organizations participating in the project
on the basis of criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA (para.
2.19);
(d)   promulgate by September 30, 1992, and thereafter maintain and
enforce regulations requiring that condoms manufactured or sold in
India conform to quality standards established by WHO (para.
2.42);
(e)   review with IDA annually by December 31 each year the progress of
project implementation over the preceding twelve months and an
annual work plan for the next following twelve months (-ara.
3.16);
(f)   carry out with IDA a mid-term review of project implementation,
prior to March 1995, and take into account comments and
suggestions made by IDA at such review during project
implementation thereafter (para. 3.18);
(g)   establish by a October 31, 1992, and then maintain a Technical
Advisory Sub-Committee on Social, Ethical and Legal Issues,
according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.26).



v 36 -
5.02        There would be two conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   the Government shall by June 1, 1992, establish and thereafter
maintain a National AIDS Control Authority, with adequate full-
time staff, other resources and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, and the designated staff shall have commenced work (para.
2.10); and
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the WHO Grant
would have been fulfilled (para. 3.06).
5.03        One condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred by any
State or Union Territory would be that the Government furnish IDA with a
Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to IDA from that State or Union Territory.
Those letters would outline how each State/UT would carry out its part of the
project (para 2.12).
5.04        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 59.8 million (US$84.0 million equivalent)
to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



-37-                                ANNEX 1
NTONAL AIDS C.ONTROL-PROJECT
Profile of Sero-Positive Indians detected through September 1991
Table 1.  Reported,Clinical AIDS cases in India (up to Sept. 30. 1991)
Males       Females       Total
Indians:         59           24           83
Foreigners:      10           3            13
TOTAL            69           27           96
Table 2. Composition of ReRorted Sero-Positive Cases
Mlales      Females        Total
Indians
Multipartner Heterosexuals        1040           1808         2848
IV Drug Users                     1236            40          1276
Blood donors                       872              3          875
Recipients of blood/blood
Products                            84            27           111
Suspected ARC/AIDS                  48            15          c 63
Relatives of HIV Carriers           18             27           45
Antenatal Women                      0             22           22
Dialysis Patients                   14              3           17
Homosexuals                          8              0            8
Others                             332            109          441
Sub Total              3652           2054         5706
Foreigners
Students                           102             18          120
Others                              38             15           53
Sub Total               140             33          173
Total                             3792           2087         5879
1/   Compilation of diverse purposeful samples since 1986.



- 38 -
Page I
INDI
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJCT
Global DtAtribution_.Pro etions and Dimensions of EIV/ADS
9STIAATEOD/PROJECTED ANNUAL ADULT HIV INFECTIONS
UIlIona                         MUlllons
IllFth   ............................  1.2
I; Awrt    .                           o.ra
O.2 IN Amorice
WE urope      i     -                 l0
19s80 82 84 866 66 0 92 040 98O2000
Year
HIV Transmission
Global Summary 1991
Tvne of sspoaure   Ef/Slngf2 Exgosu  ePt. of Glgbal Total
Blood transfusion      P90%                  6
Perlnatal               30%                 10
Sexual Intercourse     0.1-1.0%             80
(VagInal)                                 170)
(Anal)                                    (10)
Injecting drug use     0.6-1.0%             10
sharing needles,to
Health care            '0.6%              40.01
- need^le-tloks. etc
8outce: WHO/OPA



39 -
Page 2
Estimated Global Distribution
of Adult HIV Infections
1991
ntmalle r11877?>Femae 1/1400 
\$k<~V al*ei 1l/40
ornate II/Q    a 6  I/
Source; WHO/GPA
Estimated Global Distribution
of Adult HIV Infections
1991
1 Milillo      ,  ,,<ooo600.000
A0r00t   56000  20,000
1 MilIalollio 
Global Total. About 9 millIon Infectlontq globally
SourOe: WHO/OPA             - one IV Intectlone per 250 edulte



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Current and 1?uture Dimensions of the HIV/AD PRanei1
.2          ~~~AID8 _AndgMW1^
HIV infection and AIDS (HIV/AIDS) are epidemic worldwide (i.e.
pandemic). However, they have not affected the world's population
uniformly.
*    Extensive spread appears, in retrospect, to have commenced in the
late 1970e or early 1980s in populations of: (a) homosexual or
bisexual men and injecting drug users in certain urban areas of the
Americas, Australia and Western Europe; and (b) men and women with
multiple sexual partners in parts of the Caribbean and East and
Central Africa.
-    Two serotypes of HIV are recognized, HIV-1 and HIV-2.  Worldwide,
the predominant virus is HIV-1. Extensive spread of HIV-2 occurred
through the 1980s, principally in West Africa. Although the
transmissibility and pathogenicity of HIV-1 and HIV-2 appear to
differ, their modes of transmission are similar, and AIDS cases
resulting from HIV-1 or HIV-2 infections appear to be clinically
indistinguishable. In this annex, the abbreviation HIV will be
used when referring to HIV-1.
*    The HIV/AIDS pandemic consists of many separate epidemics (in some
cases even within a single country). Each epidemic has its own
starting point and involves different types and frequency of risk
behaviors and practices (e.g. having multiple sexual partners or
sharing drug injection equipment).
*    Studies to date indicate that about 50% of adults with HIV-1 will
develop AIDS within 10 years of infection. Few data are available
beyond 10 years, but it is expected that the vast majority of HIV-1
infected persons will develop AIDS eventually.
*    Less is known of the natural history of HIV-2 infections; the
evidence to date suggests a rate of progression from HIV-2
infection to AIDS that is considerably slower than that for HIV-1
infections.
2 Source: WHO/GPA



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
*    No major differences have so far been found in the rate of
progression from HIV-1 to AIDS among middle-aged adults by
geographical area, sex or race. In infants born infected with
HIV-1, the progression to AIDS is more rapid than in adults.
*    Virtually all persons diagnosed as having AIDS die within a few
years. Survival after diagnosis has been increasing in developed
countries from an average of less than 1 year to about 1-2 years at
present. However, survival time for AIDS cases in developing
countries remains short - an estimated 6 months or less. Longer
survival appears to be directly related to routine use of antiviral
drugs, the use of prophylactic drugs form some opportunistic
infections (e.g. pneumocystis pneumonia), and to a better overall
quality of health care.
*    By April 1991, more than 345,000 AIDS cases had been reported to
WHO, but WHO estimates that, when under-diagnosis, under-reporting
and delays in reporting are taken into account, more than one
million AIDS cases may have occurred in adults worldwide to date.
In addition, it is estimated that by early 1991 more than 500,000
paediatric AIDS cases resulting from perinatal transmission may
have occurred, with more than 90% of this total in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Thus, WHO estimates that the cumulative global total of
AIDS cases by early 1991 stands at more than 1.5 million.
*    As of April 1991, at least 8-10 million HIV infections are
estimated to have occurred in adults since the beginning of the
pandemic, and about one million children are estimated to have been
born infected with HIV.
O    Potential interactions between HIV and other infectious agents have
been of great public health concern. The only significant
interaction identified so far is with Mycobacterlum tuberculosls
infection. Tuberculin-positive persons who are also infected with
HIV develop clinical tuberculosis more rapidly than persons without
HIV infection. WHO estimates that, by early 1991, three million or
more adults worldwide will have been infected with HIV and
Mvcobacterlum tubegrculos_ss, the vast majority being in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Studies have continued to document only three major modes of HIV
transmission: (a) unprotected vaginal or anal sexual intercourse
between men and women or between men and other men; (b) exposure to
infected blood, blood products, organ or semen (such exposure
principally involves the reuse of inadequately sterilized needles,
syringes or other skin-piercing instruments, and transfusion of
infected blood); and (c) transmission from an infected mother to
her fetus or infant (perinatal transmission).



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
*    fiiv transmission through HIV-infected blood or blood products has
now been virtually eliminated in the industrialized countries
through routine screening of donated blood. This problem is being
increasingly addressed in most developing countries.
*    Although there has been concern about the possibility that
mosquitos and other biting insects may spread HIV, all laboratory
and epidemiological studies show that they are incapable of
transmitting HIV infections.
*    As of 1991, about 70% of all global HIV infections are estimated to
have been spread by vaginal intercourse; the relative proportion of
HIV infections resulting from heterosexual as compared with
homosexual intercourse varies markedly in different areas of the
world.
*    The predominant modes of HIV transmission in Australia, North
America and Western Europe during the 1980s were (a) unprotected
sexual intercourse among homosexual men with multiple sexual
partners; and (b) the exposure of injecting drug users to HIV-
infected blood through shared and inadequately sterilized injection
equipment.
*    In Sub-Saharan Africa, the predominant mode of transmission has
been unprotected sexual intercourse among heterosexuals who have or
whose partners have multiple sexual partners. With high numbers of
women becoming infected, perinatal transmission is an increasing
problem.
*    In Latin America, HIV transmission in increasing among
heterosexuals, with a concomitant increase in perinatal
transmission.
*    In several countries in South and South-East Asia, there was a
rapid spread of HIV during the late 1980s among injecting drug
users and hetero.sexuals with multiple sexual partners.
*    In other areas of the world, such as East Asia and the Pacific,
Eastern Europe and the USSR, North Africa and the Middle East,
predominant =odes of HIV transmission have yet to emerge fully
because of the relatively recent (mid to late 1980s) introduction
of HIV into these regions.
*    In 1987, in recognition of these broad epidemiological patterns of
HIV/AIDS, WHO developed an epidemiological classification of HIV
infection and AIDS cases worldwide, according to: (a) when the
epidemic started; and (b) the predominant modes of HIV
transmission.



- 43 -
AMNEX 2
Page 6
Patterns of the AIDU_eid_emic
Pattern I - Extensive spread of HIV began in the late 1970s or early 1980s.
Homosexual males and injecting drug users have been the predominantly affected
populations, but heterosexual transmission is increasing.
Pattern II - Extensive spread of HIV began in the late 1970s or early 1980s.
HIV transmission has been and continues to be predominantly heterosexual.
Pattern I/IT - Extensive spread or HIV began in the late 1970s or early 1980s.
Initially, those affected were mostly homosexual men and injecting drug users
but, from the mid to late 1980s, a large and significant proportion of new HIV
infections has been due to heterosexual transmission.
Pattern III - Introduction or extensive spread of HIV did nct begin until the
mid to late 1980s.
Note: With the continued extensive spread of HIV, the distinctiveness of
these epidemiological patterns has become increasingly blurred.



I DIA
EA=CM   &MS LOTM    PR"=
PR2ected  IDS Cases without-and with tbe ProDleCt
WM=hU TER PROJECT                                                 WITTHE PROJECT
AIDS            Total                                               S&vIzg3 in direct costs
Incidacald       Direct                                            Illustrative example for a 30%
persou          Cost2f              AIDS cases prevented               prevention scenario
Year     (tthuaunds)     (US$ million)           under the project                   (U5$ inilion),21
Effective Prevention
Scenarios
201      30Z    40%            &ovt.     Private    Total
1994         7.0             7.8                1.0      2.0    3.0             1.8        0.5       2.3
1995         16.0            19.1               3.0      5.0    6.0             4.6        1.1       5.7
1996         32.v            41.3               6.0      10.0   13.0            9.9        2.5       12.4                4:
1997         62.0            86.5              12.0      19.0   25.0           20.6        5.4       26.0
1998        125.0           188.4              25.0      37.0   50.0           44.9       11.6       56.5
1999        250.0            407.0             50.0      75.0   100.0          97.0       25.1      122.1
2000        500.0            879.2             100.0    150.0  200.0           209.6      54.2      263.8
Total        992.0          1,629.30           197.00    298.0  397.0          388.4      100.4      488.8
21 WM team's estiates of projected AIDS cases are based on the 1991 underlying prevalence of 200,000 OIV carriera in risk behavior grtups,
200.000 persons in the general population and on projected nev EIV Infections.
2f Total direct cost per case In 1992 - uss950 increasing at 8% yearly.                                                               00
31 At current prices.                                     



Anayshol PaRlum on Imnsinent (1992D24) In the National AIDS Control Project
(Diemt Cost It the Gormment Only)
0        1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8
FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY199S   FY1996   FY1997   FY1998   FY1999   FY2000
Anhlnvshmstmnt                     0.0     23.3       9.1     20D.4    18.2     18.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Totbl hnvsnt                      99.6
PY oTotalrnvnmnt (1)              74A4
WthouthebenGon                    2.0       3.5      7.0      S.0      32.0     62.0    125.0    250.0    500.0
wflh inksivecon (                  NA       NA       4.9      11.2     22.4     43.4     87.5    175.0    350.0
Dot AIDSCasPtevented               tA       NA       Z1       48        9.6     1&.6    37.5      75.0    150.0
Oited Cost to  Govemment 131
A. Coa of MWkalTreat-rent (4)
ollesuatreatedperca             2D.0      2D.0     20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0     20.0     20.0
Untllcosperiasstreatrnent        10.0      10.8     11.7     12.6      13.6     14.7     15.9     17.1      18.6
Sub4Sotal MM                    200.0    216.0    2133.3    251.9    272.1    293.9    317.4    342.8    3702
Govsmment Shwe@40%               80.0      86.4     S33     100.8    108.8    117.5    1269       137.1    148.1
BEHoLlalCost(5)
o1fdqsphospdpercasm              25.0      25.0     25.0     25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0     250      25.0
Willcodpardry                    30.0      32.4     35.0     37.8      40.8     44.1     47.6      514      55.5
Sub.Tatal                       750.0    810.0    874.8    944.8  1.0204   1,102.0   1,190.2  1,285.4  1.38a2
GvovumnantShare90C              675.0    7290    787.3    8503    918.3    991.8  1.071.1   1,156.6  1,249.4
TotaGi'tShweolCostPrCae         755.0    815.4    880.6    951.1   1,027.2   1,109.3  1,198.1   1,293.9  1,397.5
Toeal OrectCod lo  tS Avekled (6)
rJS9)                            NA       NA       1.8      4.6      9.       20.6     44.9     97.0    209.6
fiwtutnpion Pveirstnent
PVWoToWldnves      tLssm) (1)    74.4
PV ofTotd Gtkod Av d OJS$r) (13   208.0
bflmal Rae of Palum8 ORF (7)     26.7%
Notear
11) Tho preuntvaka (P'V of both mweatnit ad cost aided Is calculated udn 8% discount fate.
2 Tho proect I aumed to rd    AIDS cases by 3D%,
( The drect cost rotds to expenses ot medid troatment end hospil stay. It ia assumed that the government wM boa 40% of medicel
treatmentexpenses sdW90%ofhosWhexpenses
(4) ls asued lishlech AiDS eatedca Es a  aedh 30 reWnd iems, of vhkh 20wDa incurmedica care expenses atUSS10 per
itoss a 1992 pdcss, hIcreasing at 8% ever year.                                                                           CD
(5)&it aswumd thalewry patient wilh AJDS requIrs 230 day of cae, of WhIh 10% (25 days) would nolve hospit cam at US30 per day  TO
at 1992 pies, hincrebing at 8Is ryeoieq p
(6);h lbobtsl cost b to nunent wokled Is ks proit of gaverrn shwe of lotdl cost per ca and tot number ol casos pwvoted.
(1  O dm  hSn rof ndum filFb In decolm rob dwhkh PV of nolmnuWsb PW ol cost avokld.



An*yxbol Pehum on   stment (1992.20  In hIh Nlonal AIDS Conol Pt*t
(DectCost b Bo1h Government and Pdvate Sebo)
0         1        2         3         4         5         6        7         8
FY1992   FY1983   FY1994   FY1995   FY1996   FYI99Z   FYI998   FY1999   FY20W
Armnl hwestment                      0.0      23        19.1      20.4      182       1&0       0.0       0.0       0.0
To;hrwncant                         99.6
PVotTotal vstment (1)               74.4
Benefil
* of AIDS Cases 
houtintewention                      20        3.5       7.0     16.0      32.0      62.0     125.0    250.0    500.0
vihhntmerven1on (2)                  NA        NA        42       11.2     22.4      43.4      87.5    175        350.0
f of AlDSCases Preentd               NA        NA       2.1       4.8       9.6      18.6      37.5      75.0    150.0
DIracl Cost (3)
A Cost of Metical Treatment (4)
# of lInessos trated per case       20.0      2D.0     20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0      2D.0      20.0     2D.0
Unltcostperltneesstreatment         10.0      10.8      11.7      12.6     13.6      14.7      15.9      17.1      18.5              1
Subto  (olM                        2G0.0    216.0    233.3    251.9    272.1    293.          317.4    342.8    370.2               4-
B. Hospitl cost (S)
# of dap In hospil per case         25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0
Unit cost per day                   30.0     3Z4       35.0      37.8      40.8      44.1      47.6      51.4      55.5
SubTotd (W$                        750.0    810.0    874.8    944.8   1,020A    1,102.0   1,190.2   1,285A    1,38.2
Total Cost PerCas (118) (A+B)      950.0   1,026.0   1,108.1   1,196.7   1,292.5 S,35.9   1,507.5   1,628.    1,758.4
Tota Cost Avoided (OUm) (            NA        NA       23        5.7      12.4      26.0      56.5    122.1    263.8
Return an P19trehcttestme"I
PYoI Total  estment (Ul$Sm) (1)     74.4
PVof totd CostAvckled (US$m) (1)    261.
IntMlsmP RaDOf ResIs; nP) (7)      31.1%
Notes:
(1) The presntvalue C) of both Inestment and cost avoIded Is calculated using 8% discount ate.
(2) The prect Ls assumed to reduce AIDS oases by 30%
0 The direct cost relates to the expenses of medlcd treatnen:t and hospRitl stay of patients with AIDS.
(4) Itis assumned Vhileach AIDS related case i associated wi 30 relatded lnesses, of whIch 20 wil Incur modil care expenses atUS$10 per
'ness st 1992 prices. Increasing at 8% evely year.                                                                           oQN
(5)1I Is assumed latmery patientwvt AIDS requims 250 days of cae, of which only 10% (25 days) would bnvolve hospiW care at US$30 per day  0 X
d 1192 prices. Icrasing at* 8% vy yoar.
(6) Thf totW cost aided is Vie poduct of total uni cost per case and tot number of cases prented.
(7) The  el ndra ol retua otum   is the discount rate  l which PVof Investment equals PV of cost mvolded.



- 47 -
Page 1
INDI
M&ILO.AL AIDS CONTROL PROECT
IMPACT OF HIV/AIDS-11
The potential socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS has many facets
and is manifested according to many indicators over varying periods of time.
It is useful to disaggregate the possible effects of the spread of the disease
in three categories. First, the disease impact will first be felt at the
household and community level, with more macro-level impacts being observed
after the disease becomes more wide-spread at the sectoral level and finally
at the national or economy wide level.
At the household and community level there are at least twelve
impacts, from loss of economic security for the remaining members of the
household or community to the additional costs of medical care devoted to
persons afflicted with the disease. These impacts are delineated below with
indications about the cause or causes of the impact and indicators of evidence
one may desire to monitor to determine the magnitude of the impact.
H2ousehold antd Community Level ImRacts
Impact                      Cause(s)                     Evidence
1.  Loss of economic        - with illness, loss         - household earnings
security                    of source of income          before & after illness
- change in asset
holdings
- ehange in ownership
of firms & businesses
- change in amount and
type of savings
2. Highest at risk          - lifestyle practices        - same as 1. above,
group is the young                                       however, the magnitude
- cost to household is      of the lifetime losses
greatest since a            are expected to be
greater share of life       larger
is lost
3. Potential loss of        - same as 1. above           - same as 1. above
land and other assets
/ Source:  David Dunlop



- 48 -
Page 2
4. Reduced remittances       - same as 1. above           - same as 1. above
to family & friends
5. Reduced capacity to       - when income falls,         - determine who pays
finance education           all expenditures             school fees
decline
- determine extent of
loss of household
income after illness
- determine if other
sources of income
subsequent to illness
6. Creation of young         - if death occurs in         - number of orphans
orphans                     parent                       due to AIDS in adults
- number of orphanages
7. Creation of "old"         - if death occurs in         - number of "old"
orphans (elderly)            children responsible        orphans
for support of the
elderly                      - rate of older orphan
suicides
- expansion of social
welfare programs
8. Production of home-       - with illness,              - household time
produced goods and           household activities         allocation studies
services                    change
- if reliance on
female members for
services, then output
is reduced as they
tend to ill members
9. Change in time            - same as number 8.          - same as 8. above
allocation to               above
dependent persons
10. Perinatal                - number of HIV              - rate of HIV positive
transmission of             positive mothers             children among sero-
disease                                                  positive mothers
11. Funeral costs            - death and funeral          - costs of funerals
reduce resources             expenses



- 49 
Page 3
Household and Gommunity Lg3Ml Impacta
Impact                      Cause(s)                     Evidence
available for other
investments
12.  Cost of medical        - illness is long            - amount of care paid
care                                                     for by household
- cost of treatment is
high                        - if health care is
provided by
government, determine
resource cost
There are three principal impacts which occur at the sectoral
level which can be quantitatively assessed. These impacts are presented
below.
gsetoral Level Imnacts
Impact                      Cause(s)                     Evidence
1.  Firm specific and       - reduced functional         - firm specific
industry labor              health status                records of output per
productivity                                             hour
reduced time worked
and output lost             - worker loss records
2. Loss of                  - reduced functional         - crop outputs per
agricultural                health status                year by area,
production                                               depending on disease
prevalence
3. Reduced demand for       - fear of contracting        - patterns of STD,
services                    HIV/AIDS                     prostitution, etc.
Finally, the macro-level impacts of AIDS are only noticeable after
a period of time has elapsed and when the prevalence has grown beyond the
levels presently experienced by most countries in the Asian region. Thus for
the present, indicators of impact would best focus on the household and
sectoral measures posited above.



-50 -
-50-                       ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
Page 4
MNacro-ecognomic Leve Impacts
Impact                      Cause(s)                     Evidence
1. Reduced labor             - loss of health            - time spent on non-
productivity                status                       work activities
- reduced time worked         increase of days in
and work performed          restricted activity
- work output
statistics
2. Reduced aggregate         - reduced life              - smaller share of GDP
savings                     expectancy leads to          saved
less savings
3. Reduced aggregate        - when ill, people           - investment share of
investment                  spend rather than save       GDP falls
- risk of illness           - aggregate return on
leads to risk in            investments should
required rate of            rise
return on investment
and drop in quantity
of investmenr
4. Alteration of             - investment in              - investment changes
investment mix              consumer items rather        to activities
than additional             dominated by consumer
production will be          decisions
favored
5. Adverse foreign           - fear of HIV/AIDS          - annual statistics
exchange and tax            from tourist related         from tourism
impact, if                  services
international                                            - exports of
consumers reduce                                         handicrafts
demand for services
- size and number of
foreign exchange
transactions
6. Reduced government        - revenue reduction          - fall in government
expenditures, if 5.          from foreign exchange       expenditures as share
above is correct             (FX)                        of GDP
- reduction of public
sector FX expenditures



* 51 -
4
Page 5
INDI4
EATIINAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
X1mtrAryeP  ang= of the Ucoming
Devastation of Family Life in A Stud, of
Ten African Counties
ProJected AIDS deaths In Women aged 15-49
During the 19i00. up to 2.9 mililon women will dle of AIDS.
Orphan$ (Millions)
4..'..-                                                   .
8,,,..   ............................   ..................................................................... .... 
8..._.                                        ..  .    ...
11990 l991 1993 1le8 1994 199 1996 1997 1998 19961
Projected number of AIDS orphans
-DuAig the 1990's, n  to 6.5 WBilon children under 15
will  se thelr motners to APUt
Womn aoRd 16-49 (000)
6091 
400 .............................     ... .
600 .         .........   .... . ..,
t0oo.. .. .. ..... . ...........
"10  16  1951 9    1994 196 19os  1917 1956 IeIg
Source:  Social Science and Medicine



- 52 -
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Budget and Finance
Table 1: India - Budget Provision for AIDS
The Budget Provision and expenditure under the National AIDS
Control Program for the years 1987-88 to 1991-92:
Year             Amount                       Break -U
1987-88       Rs.2.00 crores    Kits & Readers -  Rs.1.84 crores
Health Education - Rs.0.16 crores
1988-89       Rs.2.50 crores    Kits               - Rs.2.00 crores
Health Education - Rs.0.50 crores
1989-90       Rs.3.00 crores    Kits               - Rs.2.50 crores
Health Education - Rs.0.50 crores
1990-91       Rs.3.50 crores    Kits               - Rs.2.00 crores
Health Education - Rs.0.80 crores
1991-92       Rs.4,00 crores    Kits & Readers   - Rs.3.20 crores
Health Education - Rs.0.80 crores
Budget Provision for Blood Banking
The Budget provision and expenditure in respect of Blood Banking
services for the years 87-88 onwards:
ear         Amrn
1987-88     Rs.O.50 crore
Assistance to the
1988-89     Rs.1.00 crore            States for improving
Blood Banking and
1989-90     RsA.OO crore             Blood Transfusion
Services.
1990-91     Rs.1.00 crore
1991-92     Rs.5.00 crores
N.b. Excluding provisions related to the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA).



-53-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Table 2:    India - Pattern of Plan Outlays on Health & Family
Welfare Programs in Seven Planning Periods
(Ra. Crores)
Planning Periods
First     Second   Third      Fourth    Fifth      Sixth     Seventh
Plan      Plan      Plan      Plan      Plan       Plan      Plan
(51-56)   (56-61)   (61-66)   (69-74)   (74-79)   (80-85)   (85-90)
Health Services        65.2     140.8     225.9      335.5     760.8    1821.0    3392.9
Family Welfare
Program                 0.1       5.0      24.9      278.0     491.8    1010.0    3256.3
Total Health &
FWP                    65.3     145.8     250.8      613.5    1252.6    2831.0    6649.2
Total Public
Sector               1960.0   4672.0    8576.5   15778.8   39426.2   97500.0  180000.0
As Proportion of
Total Public
Sector:
a. Health
Services %           3.3       3.0       2.6        2.1       1.9       1.9       1.9
b. FWP      %           0.09      0.1        0.3       1.8       1.3       1.0       1.8
c. Health &
FNP      %           3.3       3.1       2.9        3.9       3.2       2.9       3.7
Source:  Health Information India 1990



- 54
AMLEX_5
Page 3
Table 3:    Indian National AIDS Coutrol Program
Proposed Budget Summary for Strategic Plan
for the Prevention and Control of AIDS in India
(US$ thousands)
Proposed Budget Summary
(Major activites and proposed allocation of funds, by year)
Component Area       1992        1993       1994        1995        1996       Total
COMPONENT 1
Program Management
3151.00    2077.00    1896.00    1984.00    1984.00    11092.00
COMPONENT 2
Surveillance and
Zesearch                790.00    1945.00    1945.00       650.00     650.00      5980.00
COMPONENT 3
IEC                    4564.90    6189.90    6447.90    6292.00    5822.00    29316.70
IVDU                    243.50     251.00      267.50     389.00      449.00      1600.00
COMPONENT 4
Sexually
Transmitted
Diseases                745.00    3430.00    6437.00   10466.00   14172.00    35250.00
COMPONENT 5
Condom Programming    4927.00    1834.00    1584.00    1499.00    1504.00    11348.00
COMPONENT 6
Blood safety          35923.94   18024.14   15074.34   10560.74    7560.14    87143.30
COMPONENT 7
Reduction of
Impact                  515.00    1405.00    2155.00    2760.00    3610.00    10445.00
TOTAL                 47709.34   33079.04   33910.74   32616.74   33767.14   192175.00



AMNEX 5
Page 4
NA711ONAL ADOS CON11ROL PROGRAMMF, INML
STATUS OF E)CTERNAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT. -1 OCTOBER 1991
AGENCY               AMOUNT/US$  T         PERIOD          STATUS'            COMMENT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE
GCI                 10,000.000    J      901995       j     C      j     All States/ Central
I   I   __________________   I  ____________  I  I~~nstitutIons
_________________       WHO/Gol COLLABORATIVE PROGGRAMMES (RB)          _________
WHOMR                  525,850             1990-91      J     C        ____________
j   WHO/RB                  700,000      j      1992-93            C       __________
MULTINATIONAL
WHO/GPA/H-Q               445,424          Nov9DO-ot91          C             Maharastma State
WHO/OPA1HQ                82,858           NovMOOct9l           C               Manlpur State
WHO1GPA/HQ                288,904     j Apr9l.MaM9              C             Taml Nadu State
WHOIGPAIHQ                387,412          Ap,91-Mai92-         C             West Bengal State
WHO/GPAIHQ                142,388          Api91 -Mar92         C                UT of Delhi
WHO/GPAtHO               5,804,000          1992.1998            I                NatIonal
WHO1OPA/HQ                515,000              1991              I          EduoatIon Inter-seotoral
f                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Collaboration
SIDA (Sw)               245,985          Apr91 -Mar92          C                National
USAID                 1,300,000          1991-1992           C         National, Blood Soreening
_____________________              ~BILATERAL__            _ _  __   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
EEC                  700,000                                 I                Bombay
NORAD                  28,000             1991-1992           C             National level"'
ODA                  3,000,000          1992-1995            I              West Bengal
PSI                  150,000              1991              P             For Bombay ***
UNDOP                  20,000               1991              I               N.E. States
UNDP                   20,000              1991-             P               N.E. States
UNICEF                10,000,000           5 Years            I             Communlcation
usAI                 10,000,000          1992-1997           I             Tamil Nadu "
*   Requested (R), Intention (1), Pledged (P), Committed(C)
Support through a consultant (MedIcal Offioer and NGO Cello In coordination of NGOS
"'Condom Promotion In red light areas of Bombay, Ford Foundation's contributIon would be US$1 10,000
'"Probably NGO Support



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS C;ONTROL PROJECT
Organizational Structure
Figure 1:  Internal Structure of the AIDS National Program Coordination Team
Znter-N&nlsterlal Level    ~    H I .n.i AIDS|
m  is trIal Level
= .,,,,,,,, ,,,,,   , , , . . .                                                                                          , .... .........
MACA
..........................r..gr. aim Manage-......................Technd.05. AdvLsoq
TePm                                                                                                              Comitt  CIAC)
_   .               6~~~~~ub-Coclttees
1  1       lbetnttroUvO-ffl-_ l    Sch E I                                 E XI3I                              ros
liBO bobalcal       ~Ade4nistrative  LoffadEsliaDrco                                Teohuical Direor         oia,Ehia 
StatS                                                                                 (DOG)              Legalreot  sDes
___ gDIrect~~~~DL or, GO1)
|Director (in|               qOffietr Epide-                   DIrector E|
qOfficer 5TD0                   Intervention             50Coto
71.1d Konttorig                  atonld                 e tpidemiologw |
S0CIU   I      .      l~~~Consultantsl         end Reeserob 
Sc.pport Staff|                 htead Mcnltoriee iagnos
-sau                     angee o nt 
8upport Staff|         Condom
Programing 
MHother end Child|



- 57 
NEX
Page 1
INDIA
1ATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
TERNS OF RAEERENCGE
Pr&v_idinR Effective Pro2ram Coordination at t~he National Level
1.        The  _ational AIDS Control Board.  The National AIDS Control Board
would include high level officials of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
including:
*    Secretary (Health)
*    Secretary (Family Welfare)
*    Director General of Health Services
*    Director General, ICMR, New Delhi
i    Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor, MOHFW
*    Representative of the Department of Expenditure
*    AIDS Control Program Manager
2.        The Board is mandated to make decisions on the major issues related
to the structure and functions of the national coordination bodies, budgetary
implications and personnel. The broad terms of reference of the Board are as
follows:
(a)  approval of the recommendations to the Government on policies related
to AIDS;
(b)  approval of annual operational plans for program implementation;
(c)  approval of budget proposals prepared by the Program Mianager's team;
(d)  approval of reallocation of funds between program components;
(e)  approval of reallocation of funds within a program component, over 10%
of the component total;
(f)  approval of the structure of the Program Manager's teanm and terms of
reference of the staff;
(g)  approval of the structure of the Telhnical Advisory Committee and its
sub-committees, and their terms of reference;



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(h) arranging for cooperation with other sectors of the National
administration;
(i) appointment of the officers for the National Program Coordination
Team;
(j) provision of support to the National program Coordination Team for
international collaboration;
(k)  motivation   and  arrangements   for   the   State   commitment   in
implementation of AIDS control;
(1) participation in quarterly reviews of program implementation; and
(m) approval of members of the Technical Advisory Committee.
3.        The Board would meet quarterly and would have occasional meetings if
required to solve urgent matters, upon request of the Program Manager or Chief
of the Technical Advisory Comnittee.
The National P osuatnCoordination Team and The National AIDS Control Authority
(NACA)
4.        Considering the urgency of the HIV/AIDS problem in India,  it is
recommended that the team in charge of coordinating AIDS control operate as a
Technology Mission, that would allow easy and quick decision making on major
operational issues.  The team would be led by the Program Manager (Mission
Director). The team would have three branches: administrative, headed by the
Director, GOI, and two technical branches each headed by a Deputy Director
General. The administrative branch would include officers for staff matters, for
finance and accounting,  procurement,  and an administrative officer.   The
Directors of the technical branches, apart from supervision of the technical
staff, would be responsible for training. These branches would have officers on
IEC/Media, epidemiology and research, for HIV laboratory network development,
blood safety and STD control, cooperation with NGOs, national consultants and
field teams. The broad terms of reference of the team include:
*    operational coordination/day-to-day implementation;
*    collaboration with the Technical Advisory Committeo In developing
draft national policies in AIDS control;
*    preparation of annual operational plans for program Implementation;
*    platning the national budget for the program;
*    planning the budget from external resources;
*    reallocation of up to 10% of funds witlhin a component;



- 59 -
ANNA 7
Page 3
*    preparation of proposals for the Board on larger reallocation of funds
within components and between components;
*    developing terms of reference for TAC and its sub-committees;
*    selection of candidates for officers positions in the Team for Board
approval;
*    selection of institutions and candidates for the Technical Advisory
Committee for Board approval;
*    selection and appointment of support staff;
*    selection and appointment of national consultants and field team
staff;
*    providing clearance for international staff and consultants;
e    management of funds from governmental and bilateral external sources;
*    collaboration with  the WHO  country  team  in  the  management  of
multilateral funds;
-    collaboration with TAC in elaboration of documents on AIDS control
policies, operational guidelines and research;
-    communication within the State AIDS Cells on all aspects of the
program;
*    assisting the State AIDS Cells in planning and implementation of the
program;
*    provision to the States of documents on national policy, operational
guidelines, training materials;
*    participation in political, administrative and operational meetings
and training sessions, organized by the States;
provision of centrally procured supplies and equipment according to
tho State AIDS control plans;
*    facilitating efficient disbursement of funds to the States;
*    receiving financial reports and submission of summaries to the funding
agencies according to their regulations;
*    receivlng technical reports, compiling and submitting periodic reports
to the Government and participating agencies;
*    preparing background materials for Board review and other meetings;



- 60 -
ANNEX, Z
Page 4
*    provision of feed-back to the States;
*    providing information for TAC reviews on HIV/AIDS epidemiological
situation in the country;
*    organizing quarterly reviews and annual evaluation of the program.
5.        The staff would meet monthly to review program developments.
To Strengthen Technical and Research Capability of the Program
6.        The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC.   TAC would constitute an
advisory body. The Committee would include officials and scientists from leading
research and training institutions in the country, specialized in health biology,
information, education and social sciences, as well as officials from the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, representing various national programs and
projects, identified by the program Manager and approved by the Board.
7.        The Committee woulJ form eight sub-committees,  each dealing with
particular components of the program.   The broad terms of reference of the
committee are to advise on:
(a)  developing general policy for AIDS control in India;
(b)  designing strategies for the National AIDS Conttrol Program;
(c)  assisting NACA in developing operational guidelines;
(d)  designing training schedules for National and State workshops; and
(e)  assisting in designing training and educational materials.
8.        The Committee members would:
(a)  participate as lecturers and facilitators in the National and State
training workshops;
(b)  servo as rosource persons at the National and State planning and
review exorcises;
(c)  review research protocols submitted to NACA and advise the Program
Managor on allocation of research assignments related to HIV/STD
infection, social aspects and AIDS; and
(d)  roview the HIV/AIDS situation in the country.



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
9.        The Committee would meet regularly twice a year to review the
epidemiological situation. Ad hoc meetings of the whole committee or any sub-
committee would be held on request of the Program Manager or the Chairman of the
Committee.
ftre "nthening Progrm,naagement Capacity at the State Level
10.       The State Program Coordinating Team in the larger State AIDS Control
Cells would be headed by an Additional or Joint Director assisted by two or three
technical officers.
11.       The National Program Manager at the Center would coordinate with the
State Secretary of Health for policy matters and with the State AIDS Control Cell
for administrative and operational matters.
12.       The State Ministry of Health and Family Welfare would arrange for
intersectoral collaboration within that State.
13.       The State would develop and implement its State-specific plans in
accordance with guidelines set by the Center. Terms of reference of the State
team would be in line with those of the national team, and adapted to local
conditions in every particular State.
14.       The State AIDS Control Cell would be responsible for collaboration
with the health systems in the State and with NGOs and PVOs.



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Tralning Plans for the AIDS Control Project
. ConlrWSat.Oliice'                     40          Haatthmintitry            10      80    -
L  SINeAIDSCeII                        128              -do-                 32      00    -        ,
CorT ra nTc;tm bn Mdodb
I.  oora010lo/ edl00a 1,4              820 Aalltndlaitsltiut                120    100    100    -
of Medical Bcienco
LH Nuroe@Sfmaedlcalcoum,               100                                   60      60      50    -
IL UMo4101wyTec    1911a 2MtAD          64        Ollton fntillutiMof         82     32    -        ,
ComMunicabte Otsego
ie. Eplot4 A SCantt
Ip r(eenfglonaalceniff              40               .80-                 20      20
v. MUetdaIoclal WohElr                             ChilUlanMdlcaI             to      toS
I pu medial collee                  82          College Valoe
WI. AdminluitaioretlperoMC              82        Hatbia institlue W1         l6     IS 
H h ahhwxFamilyWsffro
A. Trainino llhimmdicalccll
020 percollege-N larn
LDoctors                               M0       State Medkal Colleg        490    490    -        -
LH urt                                 490              -do-                245    245    -
P. W.Tachnclan                         ISO              -do-                 98      08  e 
h  Epkdemonntst                         Se              -do-                 49      40    -
v. MadlcaSJoclalWonker                  go               do-                 40      49    -
W1  mmnlnWalora                        Oa              -do-                 49      49    -
IL Inlerna StanIn1So MO
L    cloo191100pe.MC                 13C00         MedicalCole ge                  7OO    S000   8000
i    wot Huree 0p0 MC               S9000               -do.                      1000   10000  10000  0000
IL Lalwaoral9acinclian                                  -do.                .    10000   OD00  10OD  9000
*S3OOpeAMC                       39000
i.  Oocio2apumC                        260       in6RegionalContire          *      260    -        -
. Latmniyitlechncian
OlSPuMO              130                             -do-                *       IS     -
iM. SleJWekiC IleMO                    130              -do-                 -      130    -       -
b, PVASDoctoaln
MettopItanclu                     100                do                  *       300    800    400   -
pve.g.e*eTralrilngMeelU
college                           1300                                   tOO    G0      60O    -
L. Huraee*toelnallC                    144                                  100    80D    844    .
NI. CenlrMhr&lfllngmMIRigo              Medical es.4e0                     g
*4penllheqiM                        29         IMedl C&Ilelc6            *        21t  *-
IV. llaIhIdn   ftyWelluC                           CuiiadTraining
lrt*mr3cie4rpier                                   InatMuIt
citle                              IN8                                            Oa    lO0
v. Pare4cal wofetra
*C4prCaner.                       n20o         HeuiIhhnd1hflt-                  608    TOD   1000
WelfarsTialflg
Cooler
ML lndlrC aflNoptt l
lwl foneiCente2
SpercrilYtt                         25                                   *       2S   -*



- 63 -
AN~NEX 9
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS qONTROL PROJECT
Soctai MobilizationgNGO Collaboration:  Imlementation Natrix
ACthdty Sequence
RdnuIDifty           -       ,Staget                           Stags 2                             Stage a                        Stage 4
Natona AIDS Control        Release funds lor                                                                           Releases funds for
Authority                  NGO Activities                                                                              NGO Activitles
Stat AtDS contrd Cil       Prepares guldelines            Reviews NGO Proposals                                        Reports NGO (expenditures
(N A AOv                  for NGO Proposats                                                                           to Center
Ceordirao                 Assessment of NGO Needs
Gqwsd Committee                                           Reviews and approves NGO       Rviws and aproves NGO         Reviws NGO Evaluation
SOMtIeng                                                 Proposals                      Proposals                     Report
Nodal Agency               Recehe training In             Conducts Proposal              Conduets program              Evaluates and Reports on
'training tor NGOs             Development Training for       management training for       NGO projects
Selected NGO                   NGO
F41Mlt                    Identifie NGtO to              Assists Less Dow. NGO          Supervises N6tO
provide AIDS educatlon         to preoare proposais           Implementation
Assists MAlure NGO             Establishes AIDS Resource
to prepare proposals           Center



- 64 -
Annex 10
IHPJA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Collaboratine Ministries
TIE UNION MINISTRIES OF INDIA
POTENTIAL COLLABORATORS WITH NACP
1.    Ministry of Agriculture
2.    Ministry of Atomic Energy
3.    Cabinet Secretariat
4.    Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism
5.    Ministry of Commerce
6.    Ministry of Communication
7.    Ministry of Defense
8.    Ministry of Electronics
9.    Ministry of Energy
10.   Ministry of Environment and Forests
11.  Ministry of External Affairs
12.   Ministry of Finance
13.   Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies
14.   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
15.   Ministry of Home Affairs
16.   Ministry of Human Resource Development
17.   Ministry of Industry and Company Affairs
18.   Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
19.  Ministry of Labor
20.   Ministry of Law and Justice
21.   Ministry of Ocean Development
22.  Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
23.   Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions
24.   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
25.   Ministry of Planning
26.   Ministry of Programme Implementation
27.   Ministry of Railway
28.   Ministry of Science and Technology
29.  Ministry of Space
30.   Ministry of Steel and Mines
31.   Ministry of Surface Transport
32.   Ministry of Textiles
33.   Ministry of Urban Development
34.   Ministry of Water Resources
35.   Ministry of Welfare
36.   Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs



65 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Blod  ceening Facilities
ZONAL BLOOD TESTTNG CENTERS
BLOOD TESTING CENTERS ESTABLISHED IN THE METROPOLITAN CITIES
Bombay
1.    K. E. H. Hospital, Parel
2.    Institute of Immunohematology
3.   J. J. Hospital
4.    L. T. H. G. Hospital, Sion
5.   Nair Hospital
6.    Haffkine Institute
7.    Tata Memorial Hospital
8.    Red Cross
9.    Cooper Hospital
10.   Rajawadi Hospital
Delzhi
11.   Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara
12.   All India Institute of Medical Sciences
13.   Safdarjung Hospital
14.   Maulana Azad Medical College
15.   National Institute of Communicable Diseases
16.   Indion Red Cross Society
17.   Hindu Rao Hospital
,alcutta
18.   Central Blood Bank
19.   Dept. of Virology, School of Tropical Medicine
20.   Blood (CNMOH)
21.   Blood Bank (NBS NCH)
22.   Blood Bank (RG, KAP, NCH)
23.   Blood Bank (SSKH)
24.   National Inst. of Cholera & Enteric Diseases
Madras
25.   Madras Medical College
26.   Stanley Medical College
27.   Kilpauk Medical College
28.   Govt. Royapettah iHospital
29.  King Institute



-66 -
Page 2
INSTITUTIONS THAT WOULD HOST ZONAL BLOOD TESTINgGCENTERS
S.No.
1. Nizam's Ortho Hospital, Hyderabad
2. KMC Hospital, Hubli
3. Pasteur Institute, Shillong
4. Rajendra Hospital, Patiala
5. Civil Hospital, Ludhiana
6. Shri GTB Hospital, Amritsar
7. Gorakpur District Hospital
8. G. R. Medical College, Gwalior
9. Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad
10. Cancer Hospital, Hyderabad
11. Patna Medical College, Patna
12. ATNM Hospital, Gangtok
13. Government Hospital, Ulhasnagar
14. Surat Medical College, Surat
15. Government Hospital, Trichy
16. Government Medical College, Vadodara
17. General Hospital, Solapur
18. KM Institute of Oncology, Bangalore
19. KC General Hospital, Bangalore
20. District Hospital, Meerut
21. G. B. Hospital, Agartala
22. Government Hospital, Salim
23. Government Hospital, Aizawl
24. Government Hospital, Ernakulam
25. HSIS Hospital, Bangalore
26. Institute of Preventive Medicine,
Hyderabad
27. Government Hqrs. Hospital, Vijayawada
28. Medical College Hospital, Calicut



- 67 
ANNEX 11
Page 3
S .No.
29. Nalanda Medical College, Patna
30. District Hospital, Dhanbad
31. Tata Hospital, Jamshedpur
32. Rajendra Medicla College, Ranchi
33. GSV Medical College, Kanpur
34. District Hospital, Allahabad
35. Government Hospital, Kohima
36. Government Hospital, Itanagar
37. Government Hospital, Coimbatore



- 68 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4
RIV TESTING FACILITIES TO BE ESTABLISHED
Name of the State
and CQty                      Name of the Institute
I.    Andhra Pradesh
(1) Karim Nagar         Blood Bank, Government Headquarters Hospital
(2) Cuddappah           Blood Bank, Government Headquarters Hospital
(3) Guntur              Blood Bank, Guntur Headquarters Hospital
(4) Kammam              Blood Bank, Government Headquarters Hospital
(5) Chittoor            Blood Bank, Government Headquarters Hospital
(6) Kurnool             Blood Bank, Kurnool General Hospital (Medical College)
II. Assa
(7) Dibrugarh           Blood Bank, Medical College
(8) Silchar             Blood Bank, Medical College
TII. Bihar
(9)  Bhagalpur          Blood Bank, Medical College
(10) Muzzafarpur        Blood Bank, Shri Krishna Medical College
(11) Aurangabad         Blood Bank, District Hospital
IV.   Gujarat
(12) Porbandar          Blood Bank, Civil Hospital
(13) Junagarh           Blood Bank, District Hospital
(14) Amrsli             Blood Bank, Civil Hospital
V.   Haryana
(15) Hissar             Blood Bank, General Hospital
(16) Faridabad          Blood Bank, General Hospital
(17) Karmal             Blood Bank, General Hospital
VI.   H1maphal_Ead-fh
(18) Dharamsala         Blood Bank, District Hospital
VII. Jammu & Kashmir
(19) Jammu              Blood Bank, Medical College, S.M.G.S.



- 69 -
Page 5
VIII   antk
(20) Bellari            Blood Bank, Medical College
(21) Mangalore          Blood Bank, Kasturba Medical College
(22) Gulbarga           Blood Bank, Medical College
XI.   QL2LLa
(23) Trichur            Blood Bank, District Hospital
(24) Cannanore          Blood Bank, District Hospital
X.    Nadha-BradMah
(25) Rewa               B2:od Bank, Rewa Medical College
(26) Bhopal             Blood Bank, Medical College
(27) Bilaspur           Blood Bank, District Hospital
(28) Jabalpur           Blood Bank, Medical College
(29) Raipur             Blood Bank, Raipur Medical College
(30) Indore             Blood Bank, Medical College
XI.   Ori.ga
(31) Berhampur          Blood Bank, M.K.G.G. Medical College
(32) Burla              Blood Bank, V.S.S. Medical College
(33) Cuttack            Blood Bank, S.C.B. Medical College
XII.  Raastlian
(34) A3mer              Blood Bank, Medical College
(35) Sri Ganganagar     Blood Bank, Government Medical Collegb
(36) Jodhpur            Blood Bank, S.N. Medical College
(37) Udaipur            Blood Bank, General Medical College
XIII. Njharashtra
(38) Kolapur            Blood Bank, General Hospital
(39) Puna               Blood Bank, Sasoon Hospital
(40) Nagpur             Blood Bank, Medical College
XIV.  Tamil Na
(41) Tirunelveli        Blood Bank, Medical College
XV.   Uttar EPrdeb
(42) Dehradun           Blood Bank, Distriet Hospital
(43) Lucknow            Blood Bank, S.G.P.G.I.
(44) Nainital           Blood Bank, District Hospital
(45) Shahjahanpur       Blood Bank, District Hospital
(46) Jhansi             Blood Bank, M.L.B. Medical College



70 -
Page 6
XVI.  i5 al
(47) West Dinajpur      Blood Bank, District Hospital
(48) Jalpaiguri         Blood Bank, District Hospital
(49) Darjeeling         Blood Bank, North Bengal Medical College
(50) Burdwan            Blood Bank, State Hospital
XVII. GQA
(51) Goa                Blood Bank, Medical College
XVIII. Andaman Lnd Nicobar
(52) Port Blair         Blood Bank, G.B. Pant Hospital



- 71 -
Page 7
LIST 01 SITES FOR COMPONNT SEPARATIN FACILUTIES
First Phase: (Metropolitan Cities)
(1) Delhi
(2)   Bombay
(3)   Madras
(4)   Calcutta
Second Phase:
(1)   Bangalore
(2)   Hyderabad
(3)   Ahmedabad
(4)   Pune
(5)   Nagpur
(6)   Lucknow
(7)   Patna
(8)   Agra
(9)   Trivandrum
Tbir,d-Phas-e:
(1)   Kanpur
(2)   Jaipur
(3)   Surat
(4)  Madurai
(5)   Indore
(6)   Varanasi
(7)   Jabalpur
(8)   Vadodra
(9)   Cochin
(10) Jamshedpur
(11)  Srinagar
(12)  Allahabad
(13)  Ludhiana
(14)  Gwalior
(15)  Calicut
(16)  Meerut
(17)  Ranchi



72 -
ANMEX 12
Page I
~~OALIDS M    cONRLPRJC
Surveillance:  ApnlCatione and Techniques
OBJECTIVES OF' HIV SMuRVElJ
A.    The ggnex l 2bdec2ive of HIV surveillance is to provide data which would
contribute to the eventual control of the infection.
B.    Its spegific lobjetives would be to:
I.    Determine the geographic spread of HIV infection.  So far HIV
transmission Was identified in 15 Indian States and in 10 districts of
Maharashtra. The determination of local HIV transmission in major urban
centers is a priority.
2.    Obtain base-line data on HIV prevalence in the presumeid groups at risk.
Sex workers were found to be at high risk for HIV infection in Bombay and
Madras, and intravenous drug users (IVDUs) in Imphal. Activities within this
objective have to be expanded to other groups.
3.    Identify the leading behavior and risk factors for HIV transmission in
specific areas, and major population groups practicing them. Data is useful
for designing target-oriented interventions, allowing concentration of human
and budgetary resources on the most vulnerable populations. Data would also
allow to determine deviation from the established transmission patterns.
4.   Monitor the davelopment of the epidemic.  World-wide experience has
shown the following pattern of HIV spread into populations. The first groups
affected are those who practice multi-partner sex (MPS), both males and
females, or IV drug users. Infection In these groups spreads quickly and
saturation (80-85% HIV prevalence rate) may be reached within a short period
of two to three years. The general population (population with no identified
risk behavior) of the urban areas is the next target of the epidemic. Since
risk behavior and practices are prevalent at much lower frequencies than In
the first groups, the virus proliferation is slower, and the prevalence ratos
double at the Initial stages of the epidemic in about two to four years. The
third target population is the rural population. The patterns of the spread
of the vlrus in the rural communities have not yet been well studied.
Activities under this objective would show at what stage the epidemic is in
such population groups, allowing for timely planning of preventive activities.



- 73
Page 2
5.    Provide information for estimates and projections of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. It is not only of an academic interest to know how marny persons are
infected in a district or State. Unlike infections with short incubation
periods, AIDS develops, on an average, in 7-10 years after a person becomes
infected with. Estimates and projections on HIV prevalence permit to:
(i)   determine the scope of the HIV epidemic at a particular time;
(ii) determine development of the epidemic in the years to come;
(iii) determine the effectiveness of intervention activities;
(iv)  evaluate the effectiveness of AIDS-case surveillance;
(v)   determine the needs for developing medical and psycho-social
support services for AIDS patients.
6.    Mobilize national political and social leaders, and external. support for
the program.
7.    Provide data for developing and re-programming intervention activities
among specific target groups. The activities under this objective permit one
to focus on priority areas and populations for control interventions.
TARGET GROUPS
Numerous studies worldi'Lde, as well as the Indian experience allow the
specification of various population groups according to the risk (based on the
rates of HIV prevalence) in the following order:
1.    High Risk Behavior Groups
- STD clinic attendants
= MPS females
- IVDUs
2.    Other Groups at Aisk
- MPS males
- persons involved in frequent occupational travel who spend 1/2 of
their nights outside their homes: truck and bus inter-city drivers,
businessmen, etc.
- Infants
- Tuberculosis patients
3.    Populations without identified risk.  The general urban adult population
.Jhich may be represented for the purpose of the surveillance by:
- Out-patient attendants
- antenatal clinic attendants
- voluntary/replacement blood donors
- general rural adult population



- 74 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
SURVEILIANC. ECHNIOUES
Several surveillance techniques have been used to meet the objectives
listed above Including:
SEntinel (Dassive) surveillance: Sentinel surveillance may be applied
for all target populations listed above, and can meet the objectives 1 and 6
and, to some extent, objective 3. It allows monitoring of the HIV prevalence
trends in the study groups. As no active selection, motivation and
mobilization of target groups is required, conducting sentinel surveys
involves little additional manpower and resources. On the other hand,
selection bias and issues of representative samples do not allow broad
extrapolation of data.
nitial HIV-point prevalence sero-surveys are carried out in identified
groups of population which are expected to be at a relatively similar risk of
HIV infection. The surveys serve objectives 2, 3, 5, 6 & 7.
Interval-voint Drevalence_HIV sero-surveys are conducted in the same
groups using the same sampling methods at a period of 6, 12 or 24 months
following the initial surveys. The interval surveys meet objectives 3, 4, 5,
6 and 7.
Thus the surveillance system would use selectively different
surveillance techniques, changinc' only the target population at different
stages of the epidemic, according to the following broad schemes:
Stage 1. HIV infection was not registered in the area
(district, region, State) or previous surveys showed zero prevalence:
- sentinel surveys would be carried out at sites which gather large numbers of
groups practicing risk behaviors.
Stage 2. HIV prevalence rates in risk behavior groups tested at
sentinel sites reach 5-10% :
- sentinel surveys expanded to other risk groups;
- initial point prevalence surveys conducted in a high risk group.
Stage 3. Point prevalence surveys showed HIV prevalence at 5-10% in
risk groups:
- the targets for the sentinel surveys are changed for other risk groups;
- point prevalence surveys are repeated at intervals.



75 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4
Stage 4. Point prevalence surveys in risk groups showed prevalence at
about 50%
- sentinel surveys and point prevalence surveys in high risk groups are
terminated;
- HIV screening of pregnant women, accompanied by counselling initiated;
- surveillance in semi-urban areas initiated.
As HIV surveillance does not require identification of infected persons,
unlinked anonymous screening techniques would be used in these surveys.
The surveillance teams would include STD and sexual behavior components
in selected point-prevalence surveys, the results of which would be used to
measure the effectiveness of interventions.
STRENGTHENING STD SURVEILLANCE
Prevalence studies of sexually transmitted diseases would be made an
integral part of the point prevalence HIV surveys. The results would be used:
for determining the magnitude of the problem; as an instrument to measure the
effectiveness of interventions; and as base-line data for studying
relationships between STDs and HIV transmission and STDs as co-factor for the
progression of HIV infection to AIDS.
PSYELOPING AIDS CASE SURVEILLANCE
1.        By September 1991, 96 AIDS cases have been reported to DGHS.
According to estimates based on HIV prevalence, the number of cases which have
already occurred in the country may be counted in thousands. As most of the
risk groups practicing risk behavior are mobile and infection spreads fast
throughout the country, surveillance would be established in all states,
irrespective of the HIV situation.
2.        The objectives of this program would be to:
(a) improve identification of AIDS cases among persons seeking medical
care;
(b)  establish a referral for suspected AIDS cases as needed; and
(c)  monitor the AIDS epidemic.



- 76 -
AN   12
Page 5
3.        All institutions involved in surveillance will use the WHO case
definition for AIDS diagnosis. Patients clinically fulfilling the definition
will be tested by two screening assays, and double postitives would be
followed by a confirmatory test. The use of the lymphocytes T4/T8 ratio for
diagnostic support is advisable. The institutions not equipped with
confirmatory tests would send serum samples for confirmatory testing to the
referral HIV screening center to which it is attached. The referral hospitals
which do yet not have HIV screening facilities would use the laboratories of
blood banks wherever available.
4.        The target population for this 'passive institution-based
surveillance' would be all persons who attend medical institutions for medical
care.
5.        The surveillance would encompass the area under the domain of all
medical institutions operating in the country, government, private and
charity.
6.        Surveillance would be expanded progressively by phases.
7.        Health institutions involved in the surveillance are divided into
two categories:
(a) institutions which identify suspect AIDS cases, and diagnose AIDS
provisionally, are called "non-referral institutions", and this
category includes all medical services units (in and out-patient);
and
(b) institutions confirming AIDS diagnosis are called "referral
institutions". An identified physician in each referral hospital,
called the Physician Responsible for AIDS Diagnosis (PRAD), would
confirm suspect casei referred to that hospital, and prepare
technical reports on AIDS patients. In 1990, nine institutions
with an AIDS unit, staffed by trained physicians and nursing staff,
were identified as referral institutions.



- 77 -
ANNEK 13
Page 1
NArNL7 AIDS CONTH_L PROJECT
ORerational Studies
OPERATIONAL RESEARCH
I.   SOCIAL AND BEHAVIORAL STUDIES
1.    Opinion survey on the prevalence/spread of risk
behavior groups in major cities of India.
Objective: to obtain estimates on the number of persons practicing
multipartner sex and IV drugs.
Sites: 50 major cities of the country (List attached)
Timing: 1992 - 1993.
Implementing parties: national staff/consultants assisted by international
consultants.
2.    HIV Risk Practices
Objectives: features and frequencies of HIV risk practices in the
identified groups.
Target groups:    - Multipartner sex females (MPS females)
- MPS males
- IV drug users
Sites and timing: metro cities: 1992
15-20 other larger cities: 1993-1994
Implementing parties: NGOs experienced in social and behavioral
research/social departments in universities.
3.    Assessment of the impact of intervention projects
Objective: to determine the impact of interventions on behavioral changes
and related STD/ HIV frequencies. The assessment would proceed and follow
the major interventions projects in identified risk groups.
Sites and Timing: according to the schedule of intervention projects.
Implementing parties: universities and NGOs involved in the implementation
of the intervention projects.



- 78
ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.    To identify the approaches in providing home-based
care for AIDS patiernts
Objectives: to study the community support in provision of home based care
for AIDS patients.
An opinion is widely spread in India that persons who develop ARC/AIDS
would be stigmatized and rejected by their family and local community.
Various approaches ito educate family and community associates would be
studied to overcome this problem that would eventually result in promotion
of home care.
Sites and timing: initially the cities with the highest number of
registered AIDS patients.   Further expansion as AIDS epidemic spread
geographically:
1992   -    3 sites
1993   -    5 sites
1994   -   10 sites
Implementing parties: NGOs working at the community level supported by
social departments of universities.
5.    Evaluation of the efficacy of multilayer ar,d peer education
of MPS females in behavioral change
Objectives: to develop and study the strategies for involvement of the
prostitute employees, medical care-takers (physicians, guards) and
officials (police) in providing education to prostitutes and their
clients.
Sites: areas with well demarcated brothel setting prostitution: Bombay,
Calcutta, Delhi, Tam:Ll Nadu (site to be determined). Other sites would be
determined through the opinion survey.
Timing: six to twelve months studies will start in the already identified
areas in 1992. The expansion will be based on the results of the opinion
survey.
Implementing parties: mobile teams of the State Program Coordination
Teams, supported by NGOs.



79 -
Page 3
II. EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES
1.    Evaluation of the feasibility and cost effectiveness of HIV
testing techniques in various medical settings
Objectives: to identify optimal tests to be used in city hospitals, rural
(district) hospitals and their blood transfusion units.
Sites: three to five sets of urban and district hospitals in selected
states.
Timing: 1992-1993
Implementing parties: HIV testing referral centers.
2.    Role of other STDs in HIV transmission
Objective: to determine the role of STDs in the frequency of HIV
transmission in MPS females.
Sites: brothel setting areas in three metro-cities.
Timing: 1992-1993, to be combined with the evaluation of intervention
effectiveness,
Implementing  agencies:  epidemiological  teams  of  the  State  Program
Coordination Teams.
3.    Evaluation of selected intervent'on strategies for
prevention of HIV transmission among IV drug users
Objective: to determine effectiveness of peer education in reduction of
HIV transmission in IV drug users.
Sites: areas of wide IV drug use in the North-Eastern States.
Timing: 1992-1993.
Implementing Agencies: state epidemiological teams supported by ICMR.
4.    Evaluation of condom effectiveness in
the prevention of HIV/STD transmission
Sites: brothel settings in Bombay and two other cities.
Timing: 1992-1993, 6 to 12 months studies.
Implementing agencies: State epidemiological teams supported by medical
colleges.



- 80 -
AliJ 13
Page 4
5.   To determine sensitivity and specificity of the WHO/CDC
AIDS case definition in the Indian population
Objectives: to determine the WHO/CDC AIDS case definition sensitivity and
specificity vs CDC case definition.
Sites: Bombay, Delhi and Madras
Timing: 1993-1994, two year studies
Implementing agencies: medical colleges
6.   Natural history of AIDS in the Indian population
Objectives: to determine immunological and pathological features of AIDS
and prevailing opportunistic infections in the Indian population.
Sites: Bimbay, Delhi, and Madras
Timing: 1992-1996, to be extended at some sites
Implementing agencies: medical colleges in collaboration with city
hospitals.
7.   Treatment of HIV/ARC/AIDS by traditional/homeopathLe medicines
Objectives: to determine effects of selected traditional/homeopathic
medicines on HIV immune response and development of AIDS.
Sites and timing: to be determined on application.
Implementing agencies: qualified physicians and registered medical
institutions.
8.    Topic:  Female Condom
Field trials of the female condom to test the efficacy and acceptability
of the female condom as a method to reduce transmission among vulnerable
women.
Timing: Year 2
9.    Other topics are under consideration.



- 81 -
Page 5
Lar_ger: cities of India -to -be ingluded in opinilon surveys
o_n.the prevalence of HIVl risk behavior groupDs
(Re: Opinion Survey, Annex 13, Page 1)
State/Union                  Name of city        Total population
Territory
1.   Andhra Pradesh                Hyderabad              4,273,498
Vishakhapatnam          1,049,792
Vijayawada                838,944
2.   Assam                         Gauhati                   577,591
3.   Bihar                         Patna                  1,098,572
Jamshedpur                834,535
Dhanbad                   817,549
Ranchi                    614,454
4.   Gujarat                       Ahmedabad               3,279,778
Surat                  1,517,076
Vadodara                1,115,265
Rajkot                    651,007
5.   Haryana                       Faridabad                 613,828
6.   Karnataka                     Bangalore              4,108,013
Mysore                    652,246
Hubli-Dhaarwad           647,718
7.   Kerala                        Calicut                   800,862
Cochin                 1,134,883
Trivarndrum              825,450
8.   Madhya Pradesh                Indore                  1,104,065
Bhopal                 1,063,662
Jabalpur                  887,188
Gwalior                   720,068
Durg-Bhilainagar         688,670
9.   Haharashtra                   Bombay                 12,569,978
Nasik                     723,669
Pune                   2,444,020
Solapur                  620,499
Aurangabad                591,968
Nagpur                 1,657,135



-82-                                 ANNEX 13
Page 6
State/Union                   Name of city        Total population
Territory
10.    Punjab                       Ludhiana                 1,012,062
Amritsar                  709,456
Jalandhar                 519,530
11.    Rajasthan                    Jaipur                   1,514,425
Jodhpur                   648,621
Kota                      536,444
12.    Tamil Nadu                   Madras                   5,361,468
Coimbatore              1,135,549
Madurai                 1,093,702
Trichy                    711,120
Salem                     573,685
13.     Uttar Pradesh               Kanpur                   2,103,483
Lucknow                 1,669,136
Varanai                 1,018,370
Agra                      903,350
Allahabad                 841,638
Meerut                    833,294
Bareilly                  611,513
Ghaziabad                 519,502
14.      West Bengal                Calcutta                10,860,399
Howrah                    946,732
Asansol                   763,845
15.      Chandigarh                 Chandigarh                 509,452
16.      Delhi                      Delhi                    8,375,188



- 83 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Detailed Prolect Costs
Table 1: Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
(RS '000)                          Foreign Exchane
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...    _w,....                      -. ...... .. ..... .....__   ............... ..._...._ _ .
92/93    93/94    94/95    95V96    96/97    Totel           Z    Amount
1. INUESTENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MOiYC                           99.8  2649.0   3.B64.9           -         -    6,614.5  20.9   1t912.5
S. PROFESSIONAL SICES                    637.5    637.5         -         -         -    1275.0  15,0        191t3
C. FURNITURE                                -  1.275,0  1,275,0           -         -    2,550,0   9.0       229.5
Do EOUIPIIENT                        126,716.9  36,335.2  53,570.1   6s500.0        -  223o130,1  78.0  174*041.5
E. VEHICLES                            7,400.1             -              -         -    7.400.1   9.0       666h0
F. MEDICAL AD WORATORY SUPPLIES   116,265.0 125,714.7 143,564*7 143.564,7 143,564.7  672.673.9  70.0  470.871.0
8. STD l#DICINES                       94384,0  94384,0  94384.0  94384.0  9,384.0   46.920.0  15,0   7.038.0
Ho IEC MATERIALS                       8.965.6  8W965*6  8,965.6  8,965.6  8.965.6   44,827.8  20t0   B.965.6
le HID MATERIALS                     18163.9  18,163&9 10163,9  15.613.9  10.163.9   88.269.5  20.0  17t653.9
Jo LOCA  TRAINIG                     126,523*6 90,062.4  61,0513  614751.3 59.109,B  399,298.4   0.0          0.0
K, 1;0 SEIWICES                       39,729.0  39,729,0  39,729.0 390729#0 39,729.0  198t645.0   0.0          0.0
to LOCAL iONSLTANT SERVICES           29,5D00 29,580.0 29.580.0  29,580.0 29,58O.0  147,900.0   0.0            0.0
N. FOREIGN CONSILTANTS                 6.375.0  7,012.5  7.012.5  6.375.0  6,375.0   33.150.0  70.0  23,205.0
N. STUDIES                             7,735.9  3,727.1  10,611,1   9004.1   2,20041   33,358.3   0.0          0.0
0. YORKSHOPS                             912.4    912.4    912.4    912.4    912.4    4,562.0  10.0          456,2
P. PUIICITY SERVICES                  36.465,0  36,465.0 36,465.0 36*463.0  36#465,0  1824325,0  10,0  18.232,5
Totol INUESTiENT COSTS                  534,953,6 410,614,1 424,957.4 367s925*0 354#449,5 24092,899.6    .6 723,463.7
IID RECURRE  COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADDITIONAL STAF       25,951,6  28,021.4 29.321.9  29.321.9 29.321.9  141t938.9   0,0          0,0
D3 OPERATION AND MAINTNANCE           7*480.0  7480.0  7,480 .0 7,48.0   74800   37,400.1    5.0    1870,0
Total RECWNT CSTS                        33,41,6  35,501.5  36,802.0  36,802.0 364,02.0  179*3390    1.0   1.870.0
Total $ASELINE COSTB                    568t305,3 44U6115,6 461.759,4 404,726.9 391,251,5 2,272.2387   31,9 725,333.7
Physical Contlnsncies                 42,000,9 32o462.1  354027*8  29,437,8  28,5665,  168,295.0  41.0  70,345.2
Price Continrefei-s    310766,4 60,504.4 104,078.7 122.956,3 152t927.2  472,232,9  42.3  199.55101
Total PROJECT COSTS                     642952.6 539,082*1 600,865.9 557,121.0 57207451 2,9120766.5   34.2 995t229.9
Sza ZSSS:z sc::a4no *wggzu* :=:        Sz 55SSS5 ::#ars::5_s     ess-s aS:S SSS
Taxes                                  27t455,5  18,192.2  234236,7  17,469.6 17,898.5  104*252.6   0.0         0.0
foreign Exchae                        232730.9 171070.6 221.919.0 181,240.0 108,261.3  995#,2299   0.0         0.0
_-C, -*___  .........................................................._ ......B_ , __ 



- 84 -
Page 2
Table 2:  Financing Plan by Disbursement Category (US$ '000)Q
KVELOPET   MD W       &H   COMMEPIINT OF
A    IATION   ORANIZATION       INDIA          ToM
*    .   ,                 - ...   -.   ......               Locs  (Exce.  Duties I
Aemt  Z   Aomt   X    Amwnt  2    AhMt   Z   For, Cxch.    Taxes)                    Txs
Ah  CIVIL MS                            255.7 86.9        -    -       38s7 13.1    294.4  0.3          9.4          196.4      805
t. FIOFES0IL SRICES                      49.3 90.0           -          5.5 10.0      54.9  0.1          8.6          46#2
C. FUWJIlU1E                             100.5 90.0       -      -     112 10.0    111.7  O0t           10,7          98,7       2.2
of EIUIPNENT                          9022.2 90.0            -       M1002.5 10.0  MOU024.7  10.1    7,976.0       141462   1,002.5
Et UHICLES                              2M2O0 90.0        -    -       31.  10.0    313.3  0.3          29.3         262.1      21.9
Fe HIS lb ATEAL.                      5.342.5 90.0        -    -    593,6 10.0  5,936.1   6.0    l.2U.7            4P255.9    415.5
Be 1I0CAL A   LAMM  S1WLIES   20.2m2 90.0                     -     34143.6 10.0  31435.0  3t,6   22o479.0         7,353.6  1,603.2
No   1 IlICIIES                       10875.7 90.0              -    200,4 10*0  2M0O4M1   2*1         334.6       1,603#6    14539
to LOCAL TRAINING                    12M920.9 78*0        -          -  3,6466 22.0 16M575,6  16,6                16.575.6        -
Jo NM SEICES                          6h480.6 78,0        -    -   1,027.9 22.0  0.309,4  063              -       8,300.4         -
K. LiAL CONLTMITS SERVICES            5.567.4 90*0              -    61,6 10,0  6,106,0   6.2              -       6,186,0         -
L. FOREIGN CDIONSLTTS                       -   -  146.2 100,0            -    -  1,60.2  1,5    1,052.3             415.0         -
11 STOSIES                            1,252.3 90.0             1- 39#1 10,0   14391,5   1.4                -       1,391,5         -
No ORKSHOPS                             173.2 90.0        -    -       192 10,0    192.4  0.2           20.7         171.7         -
0s FILICITY SERICES                   6,924.1 90.0           -        769,3 10.0  7.693,4  7.7         027s        6,55082    307.7
P. SAAIES OF N8ITIOM1L STAFF          4,457.2 75#0        -    -  14057 25.0  5t942#9  6,0                         5P942.9
It OlWCTION AND AItIMCE               1.178,5 75,0        -    -      392.8 25.0   1,571.3   1.6        04.9       1,407.9      7806
T7tal Dlsburuuit                       84102,2 04.5  I.460.2   1.5  13.934.114.0  99584.5000    34,077.6    O61920.0  3.516.-
3333I2  333310 2338,31 33333  R3S33   S38  8398333 3   : 33 383=33  333,3 ... 3333   33333333
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~.                         *__.__ ........................ .  ____.__.......................... _.___.__._ ...............__ ..___ .........._..___ ......... _.._.,_... ._........__



-85 -
Page 3
Table 3:  SMWarX.Aount by Prolect-rompongnt (Ra '000)
PRONOTINO                                  WUILDINO
SIRENTININO      PUIC                        CONTR&LINO   MILLAU                       physical
PROi       AiiARE    AND  IMPROVING DLOOD  SEXIALLY    AMI CLINICAL              CuntilS n
HNAMOEMtN1     CWINUNITY      WIF   AND    TRANMITTED  MANAGUEMNT
CAPCITY       'SUPPORT      RATIONAL USE    DISEASES      CAPACITY      Total      Z    Asount
to INIBTHENT COSTS
A, CIUL V10MS                             64614.5                                                         -      6,614,5  10.0    661.5
. PFIOESSONAL SRVICESE                 -*12750                                                                   i "  '  1,275,0  to0.  1274,5-A
C. FURNITUIRE                             2,550.0              -                -           -                    2,550.0  1O.O    25S.0
D. EIUIPIHNT                             26e350.9       160819.0        1134010,4    4044949       25,999.0   2234130.1  10.0  22,313.0
Es VHICLES                                7,400.1                                     -                          7,400,1  10.0    740,0
f. ItEDICAL AND L OR01OY SIIEt                                          505.049,7   141I374.6      26,249)?  6672673.9  10.0  67#267.4
a. TO MEDICINES                                                                      46h920.0                   46,920.0  10.0  4,692.0
N. IEC HATERJIAL                                -       41565,0           3.2628            -                   44*027.0  10.0  4,482.9
Is HBI IATERIA.S                         32t9M0#6        5,279.5               -                   50400.4    88*269.5  10.0  0,927.0
J. LOCAL TRAINING                         I5P360.9     132,209.3         20*020,0     9#170.8    222.529#6   399,298.4  5.0  19,964.9
o. NOD SERVICES                                        199)645.0                            -             -   198,645,0   5.0  9,932.3
L. LOCAL CONSWLTANT S1ICES                             147,900.0                            -                  147*900.0  5.O  7,395.0
N. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                    124750,0       6,375,0          2,550.0     6,375.0       5,100,0    334150,0   540  1,657.5
N# STUDIES                                12450.0        6,107.9          5,000.6      1,000,1     0699.9       3S,358.3  5.0  1,467.9
0. MOMC                                   3.570#0          992.0 4                                               4,562.0  5.0    220.1
P. PNICITY SRVICES                                     102,325.0                            -                  102#325.0  5.0   9I116.3
Total INUESTENT COSTS                       121*60.0      ?3B.215.6        649,894.2    245,790.4    338,379#4  2,092.099.6  7,6 159,320.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
At SLARIES OF ADDITIONAL STAF           51,442.4              *         80.67,2      1.809,2             ^   141.938.9  5.0  7.09619
I. OERATION AND MINTENNCE               6h599.4         1*249.5         20000,4      7#550.6       1*200.3    37;40.,1  S.O  1,070.0
total RURRENT COSTS                         58*041.8        1s245          109.407,6     9,359.8       1,200.3   1N.339.0  5.0  0*967.0
Toteal ULINE COSTS                          179,661.9      739,465.1       750,381,0   255,150,2    339,579.7  2.7.23S97   7.4 169295.0
Piwical Cotitfnti;                        128B42.2       40,156.4         60.85.2    2t.W7          22091.S   168U295.0  0.0        0.0
Pries ConUtinfics                         31,148.0      132,365.1        191.h02.5    5614456      60,590.0   472.232.9  7.2  33.970.8
Totml MPECT COSTS                           223,652.0      911.986,5      1.019,04946   335,815.6    422,262.1  2,912,766,5  6.9 2024265.0
suiUs33*883  a-----z---- w--- ---------- 8   *3 m   amSmaassaoI  33UUuuMz38fl 3833333338  as"u aCamuafsl
Tlmes                                      7,443.4       15.493#1        51.051,5     19,497.2       9,977.3   104,252.6  0.6  8,985,1
Foreiun Exchau                            50t391.2       59*6432         620*229.7   1934037.9      71,927.9   995,29   8.0  S7.941



- 86 -
Page 4
Table 4:  PrOit CoMponents b   ear (Rs OOO'
pan Costs                              Total
..  *."-..........
...    . . ...  92/93    93/94  94/95    96  969/M97      (4S '000
U*13  tuzauiaga Mu auuaau Sauwsuagga . aua.   ualzguual   mu mmsu
A     E    ITNS    O    NMM         CAPACITY                59.5426  29M616,6  3654692  20079.3  25.054,3   179,661*9   7.045,6
*# "mmTnGPUL             EN   IaD COI       SIIRP4IIT      162M M,S  170#615,9 138.077,9 135.913,5 132.762.9   739M4651   28.990.6
Co ZIUIMOVI RONMMAFE NfD tRTONAL USE                       153895,8 143t780D7 185.17,0 137,036.8 137,031h0    7504381.0  29.140#5
It CONIRCLLII   tUEEUY TRSIITTE  DI sAB                   06,106.6  42.260,9  42.260*9  42#260.9  42.260.7   25501502   10.005.9
E. JUILhII      T IU.AHO  ADB CLINICAL tIANNT CAPAITY    106.745#4  59,03.6  59,0336  59,833.6  53t333,6   339,579.7  13.316*9
........... ............
Totl ISELINE  MT5                                            568,365.3 446,115.6 461,759.4 404,726.9 3V1.251.5 2.272n230.7  M91OM7,4
Awleal Cmntinacigs                                         42,800.9  32t462.1  35MU27M  29.43708  285U65    16.295,0   6.599,6
Price Cmtinange                                            31,766,4  6054.4 104.0707 122*956.3 152t9272    472.232,9   3.877,3
ToMl  ECT COSTS                                              642.952,6 53900'2,1 600.065,0 557'121.0 572.745,1  2.912,766.- 9,504,5
am -----u --------- umauu   uauuu*uau             azzan"aaaz   maau
Tu n                                                       27,455,5  18.192.2 23,236,7  17.469.6  17.898,5   104,252*6   3586.1
FovHihn E,hatn                                            232.738,9 171*070.6 221491940 181e240.O 1808261,3   995p229.9  34,077,6
.fl~~~~....... . .....   .  ..



- 87 -
Page 5
Table 5:                                  til-Proiect C             nent(
ilNTWUMTIO  UL
A$CUOCIATI    ~ORAtiZATION      INDIA          tet4
Lace) (Vc1. D1ties I
Abmt  Z   Amot  X    Aunt  I                Aet       X    Fort. Exch.    taxis)      TrKH
astaxsaa amaxsais a     sig a =massasia asta  xaismasa maui, aaSaasimu   matsamaaaamf     l
A. SINIIOINNAMO          l WM         CW ITY                 S5O990.7*6    US.0  7.3  1lls4 15.t  7o722.1  7?.              1,790.9       564.S       2647
No UIIt VIC A                  Al ACMUITY MOT               261054 838    21.6  0.9  4W74     15.3  31,13546  313           2.065,5      298539.1    531.0
C.   OII 100 OIE            D RATIO NL USE                   30.297,3 87.4   113*0  0.3  4Q24UO 12.2 34.652d1  348    21W097.8           11,701.6   t.i2m
of  NTRLLIIS SEULY tRMSITED             M         t    l    10,040.4 86,9   202.5 2.4   1i231.d 10.7 10   lts8  116 h6 .642               4214.0      6766
to IWULN8 IIVIUA     NI N CLIICAL NMM T    CWACITY    11.748,4 80.0    226.0  1,6   2545*4 17.5  14,519.9  14,6    2.459,3               11,719.5     341,1
Tota1 PIduteet                                                 844122 84.5  1u468#2  1,5  13.934.1 14,0  99#594,5 100.0    340M,6          61,920.8   39586.1
amaisNi  a.gmuis  Amas sasasasa laeit Z35555i am*i uauuaaeimn    mosagammaaua    a



- 88 -
ANNEX 15
INDI
NAT-IONAL AIDS CONTROL .PROJT
Schemtc mp.-Ulometaripn Levael
CENTRAL           INTERMINI1TERIAL COMMITTEE: POLICY MAKING COUNCIL
LEVEL                           IPROJEOT MANAG EMENT
DIRECTORATE GENERAI.
OF SUPPLIES
WHO                                             IEC EMPOWERED COMMITTEE
PROOURCNgM gi                                             IEC  RJECTOR
MEDICAL STORE                                l
ICB         OROANIZATION                                 I
PRIVATE ADVERTISING AGENCIES
LCDI                                                   MASS MEDIA
EMPOWERED                 |CENTRAL
wTATE C~~~~~~~~~~OMMITTEE                           _        FUNDS
STATE
REGIONAL          STATE MOHFW                  TATE FINANC
LEVEL           MEDICAL STORE 
DEPOTS                I
STATE AIDS
CONTR L CELL
MEDICAL      MUNICIPALITIES      EXISTING HEALTH      NODAL AGENCY  OTHER SECTORS
OOLL COE$                        INFRAOT[UCTURE " 
LIf G,S    HJLTHEOLCOD            HEALTH
BTD        STD         STAFF      *ORQENING    EDUCATION
OLINIOS    OLINI1S  & SOCIAL WORKIER   FACILIYISS    BUREAU&
TRAINING
IEC AND COUNSELLING



-89 
INDIA
iATIONAL AIDS CONTROL  RQJ_CT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ millon equivalent)
Pro-                                           Total
Projoct Element              Project   1      2     3      4      5      8  Payment    Remarks
LLTimIn
Slgn/EffecolCose
Works
Deslgn Preparation              0.1                                             0.1
Construction                                 0.1   0.1                          0.2     LCB
*0e** **i*e*e
Maintenance of Equipment               0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.4             1.6     Force
*e**&* cite.. *****^ xe**** ******Account
Vehicles                               0.3                                      0.3     LCB
it....
Fumiture                                            0.1                        0.1      LCB
a..*..
Blood Component                        6.1   1.4   1.2                          7.7     ICa
Separation
Laborato.v and Medical
Equipment and Supplies                 5.7   8.6   7.9   7.3    6.8           34.2      WHO Stores &
*e***e ***eee *cvore *06***ee ****                 Local shopping
Suppiles                               2.0   1.4   1.4   1.4    1.4            7.6      LCi
Csonsultancies
Local Tralning, NOOs                   6.0   5.0   4.9   4.6    4.6           25.1
and Workshops                       ii**i eat**a **eo*i eooo   **
Local Consultants,                     1.8   1.5   1.5   1.5    1.S            7.6      According to
Studies and Reviews                    e******   ****** ****** **s**                    IDA Guidelines
Foreign Consultants                    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3             1.5     Parallel
**tote 666"t ****** r****t **6**f'                 Financing
Publicity ServIces                     1.5   1.5   1.5   1.6    1.6            7.7      Direct
i.e... **~*** .i...t **fi**e **e***                Procurement
Miscellaneous
Additional Salaries                    1.0   1.1   1.2   1.2    1.4            5.9
****** *t**** **a***a t1***** 6****e
Totals                           0.1  23.8  19.1  20.4  18.2   18.0            99.6
(Bank Financed)                 (0.1) (20.2) (16.1) (17.2) (15.3)  (15.1)     (84.0)



- 90 -
ABU g17
Page 1
INDIA
(I'
NATIONAL ADCOROL PROJECT
Distribution Network Medical Store Deota
Centers attached to the National Institute of CoMnicable Diseases._Delhi for
collection of ELISA kits
SJe  same of the centre
1.    Irastitute of Pathology, Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi
2.    Regional STD TEchnical Research Centre, Safdarjung Hospital,New Delhi
3.    Indian Red Cross Society, New Delhi
4.    Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi
5.    Patna Medical College, Patna
6.    Gaja Ram Medical College, Gwalior
7.    Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara, Delhi
8.    District Hospital, Gorakhpur
9.    Government Medical College, Patiala
10.   Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Amritsar
11.   All India Instt. of Medical Sciences, New Delhi
12.   National Institute of Communicable Diseases, Delhi
13.   Central Jalma Institute for Leprosy, Agra
14.   Bhopal Medical College, Bhopal
15.   Post Graduate Institute, Chandigarh
16.   Regional Medical Research Centre for Tribal Health, Jabalpur
17.   Sawai Madho Singh Medical College, Jaipur
18.   King George Medical College, Lucknow
19.   Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla
20.   Institute of Medical Sciences, Varanasi
21.   Sontinal Surveillance Centre, ICMR, New Delhi
22.   Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinagar
23.   Medical College, Rohtak
24.   REajender Memorial Research Institute, Patna
25.   Instt. of Cytology and Preventive Oncology,
26.   A.F.T.C., Delhi
27.   C.P.I., Lucknow
28.   C.P.I., NL (50 APO)
29.   Lady Haredinge Medical College, New Delhi
30.   Hind. Rao Hospital, Delhi
31.   L.N.J.P. Hospital, New Delhi



- 91 -
Page 2
Centers attached to the Government Medical Stores Depot, Calcutta
for collection of ELISA kits
S.No.       game of the Centre
1.    Regional Medical Research Centre, Bhubaneshwar
2.    Department of Virology, School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta
3.    Department of Microbiology, SCB Medical College, Cuttack
4.    Department of Microbiology, Gauhati Medical College, Guwahati
5.    Department of Microbiology, Regional Medical College, Imphal
6.    Pasteur Institute, Department of Microbiology, Shillong
7.    Central Blood Bank, Calcutta
8.    J.N. Medical College, Department of Microbiology, Imphal
9.    G.B. Hospital, Agartala
10. ST.N.M. Hospital, Sikkim
11,   C.P.L. Eastern Command, Alipore, Celcutta
12. D.H.S. Nagaland, Kohima
13. D.H.S. Mizoram, Aizawl
Centers attached to Government Medical Stores Depot, Bombay
for collection of ELISA kits
No  Name of the centre
1.    Indian Red Cross Society, Bombay
2.    B.Y.L. Nair Hospital (Topiwala National Medical College (Nair), Bombay
3.    Institute of Immunohaematology, Bombay
4.   Grant Medical College, Bombay
5.    Hafkin Bio-pharmaceuticals Institute, Bombay
6.    Dr. E.Bonges Mag Seref., Tata Memorial Hospital, Bombay
7.    Government Hospital, Ulhasnagar Distt., Thane
8.    B.J. Medical College, Pune
9.    National Institute of Virology, Pune
10. B.J. Medical College, Ahmedabad
11. Goa Medical College, Panaji
12. Armed Forces Medical College, Pune
13. Seth G.S. Medical College, Bombay
14. Nagpur Medical College, Nagpur
15. Lpokmanya Tilak Medical College, Sion
16. District General Hospital, Kolhapur
17. Choitram Hospital & Research Centre, Indore
18. Medical College, Baroda
19. Medical College, Surat
20. Bombay Municipal Corporation, Bombay
21. Pune Municipal Hospital, Pune
22. Government Medical College, Sholapur
23. Government Medical College, Aurangabad
24. Government Medical College, Miraz



92 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3
25.   Distriet General Hospital, Thane
26.   District General Hospital, Raigad
27.   District General Hospital, Nasik
28.   District General Hospital, Ahmedabad
29.   District General Hospital, Amrawati
30.   District General Hospital, Akola
31.   District General Hospital, Chandrapur
32.   District General Hospital, Ratnagiri
33.   District General Hospital, Bhandara
34.   District Getieral Hospital, Beed
35.   District Genreal Hospital, Satara
36.   District General Hospital, Sindhudurg
37.   District General Hospital, Parbhani
38.   District General Hospital, Osmanabad
39.   District General Ilospital, Jalna
40.   District General Hospital, Jalgaon
41.   District General Hospital, Wardha
42.   District General Hospital, Gadchiroli
43.   District General Hospital, Buldhana
44.   District General Hospital, Latur
45.   District General Hospital, Nanded
46.   District Genrral Hospital, Dhule
47.   District General Hospital, Yeotmal
48.   Daga Memorrial Hospital, Nagpur
49.   Pimpri Chichwas Municipal Corporation
50.   R.M. Cooper Hospital, Municial General Hospital, Juhu, Bombay
Centers attached to Government Medical Stores Depot, Madras
for collection of ELISA kits
S.Ro. Nameof the Centre-
1.    Stanley Medical College, Madras
2.    Nizam's Institute Orthopedics, Hyderabad
3..   Gandhi Medical College, Hyderabad
4.    Government Royapettah Hospital, Madras
5.    Institute of Child Health, Madras
6.    Madras Medical College, Madras
7.    Christian Medical College, Vellore
8.    Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
9.    Tuberculosis Research Centre, Madras
10.   Madurai Medical College, Madurai
11.   Jawaharlal Institute of Post-graduate Medical Education &   Research,
Pondicherry
12.   S.V. Medical College, Tirupati
13.   Trivandrum Medical College, Trivandrum
14.   Andhra Medical College, Vishakhapatnam
15.   Kaxnataka Medical College, Hubli
16.   Apollo Hospital, Madras



93 -
Page 4
17.   Institute of Preventive Mr,dicine, Hyderabad
18.   Osmania Medical College, Hyderabad
19.   Bowering Hospital, Bangalore
20.   Dist . Hospital, Trichy
21.   Blood Bank Cancer Instt., Madras
22.   Kasturba Medical College, Manipal
23.   Railway Hospital, Yanawaram, Madras
24.  K.M. Institute of Oncology, Bangalore
25.   K.C. General Hospital, Bangalore
26.   Govt. Kilpauk Medical College, Madras



-94-
fL0,1OALAf D)j.QQNTRQjROJE_
Inportant Indicators Provosed bv WHO for
__aLutin  the Global MAIDS Preve         ntrateeies
1.    Knowledge of preventive practices
2.    Availability of condoms:
Condom sales and distribution the last 12 months
Percentage of priority distribution points with uninterrupted
supply of condoms in the last 12 months
3.    Condom use 5n populations at risk through population group surveys
4.    Reduction in numbers of casual sex partners in populations at risk
(not applicable to prostitutes)
5.    Correct management of STD in health facilities through facility surveys
6.    Prevalence of STD among men and women
7.    Prevalence of HIV infection among women attending antenatal clinics



- 95 
,,~~~~~~~~ IL) 2A
Rg2Xtkng System Outline
TEAM        Referral/Regional
Centers (STD, HTV testing)
lal[ Laboratories
Nodal
Institutions
l__________         I
Implementing a gencies 
(Govt. Inst. NGOs, PVOs)   --
Line of administration and reporting
.... Line of cooperation and reporting



-96-
INDI
AT_IONAL AIDS CONTROL MRJECT
Sgervis in Plan
Staff Weeks/
Cal. Year/                     Expected Skills                       Equivalent
Smag-t-eg         Activity    Required                               Estimates
92 II              SPN*        Task Manager                                  5
Two experts selected from                    7
the fields listed below****
(BLD,CDM,EC,EP,HM,
IEC,LAB,PRO,STD)
93 I               SPN         As above                                     12
93 II              SPN         As above                                     12
94 I               SPN         As above                                     12
94 II             MTR**        All listed below                             20
95 I               SPN         Task Manager                                  5
Two experts in fields                        7
listed below
95 II              SPN         As above                                     12
96 I               SPN         As above                                     12
96 II              SPN         As abosie                                    12
97 I               SPN         As above                                     12
97 II/98           PCR         TBD                                          TBD
*     SPN   Supervision
**    MTR   Mid-term Review
***   PCR   Project Completion Report
**** Required Skills
BLD   Blood Transfusion Expert
CDM   Condom Programming Specialist
EC    Economist
EP    Epidemiologist
HM    Health Management Specialist
IEC   Communication Specialist
LAB   Quality Control Specialist for HIV Testing
PRO   Procurement/Implementation Specialist
STD   Sexually Transmitted Diseases Specialist



- 97 -
NATIONJAL AIDS CON!TROL PROEC
F_orecasts of Exoendlture ad aDiqsburSements
Semester
IDA                                                         Cumulative    from
Fiscal Year                                                   As % of   AppraIsal
and Semester     Expnditures            Disbursements          Total       Date_
Semester  Cumulative   Semester  Cumulative
(US$ MIllilon)
FY 93
Jul 92-Dec 92     11.91     11.91          6.1      6.1  9        7          2
Jan 93-Jun 93     11.91    23.82           6.1     12.2          14          3
FY 94
Jul 93-Dec 93     9.56     93.38           9.0     21.2          25          4
Jan 94-Jun 94     9.66     42.94          11.1     32.2         38           5
FY 95
Jul 94-Dec 94     10.22    63.16          10.1     42.4         51           6
Jan 96-Jun 95     10.22    63.38          10.2     52.6          63          7
FY 96
Jul 95-Dec 95      9.10    72.48           8.1     60.7          72          8
Jan 96-Jun 96     9.10     81.68           8.2     68.9          82          9
FY 97
Jul 96-Dec 96     9.00      90.58          7.6     76.5         91          10
Jan 97-Jun 97      9.00    99.68           7.0     83.5          99         11
FY 98
Jul 97-Dec 97     -          -             0.5     84.0         100         12
Closing Date: September 30,1997.
la: Including Special Account and Retroactive Financing.



-98 -2
NATIOL,. AIDS -CO O       ECT
Selected Ngtkilig_Papers and Docuent   viable i  -hegoject File
1.    AIDS Control Program, India, Project Proposal, HOHFW, July 1991:
Program Management
Surveillance and Research
Prevention of HIV Transmission
Reduction of Impact of AIDS.
2.    Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of AIDS in India, 1992-
1996, MOHFP  in collaboration with WHO, New Delhi, September 1991.
3.    Program Implementation on IEC and Social Mobilization, R. Sujatha Rao,
MOH.'W, New Delhi, October 1991.
4.    Medium-Term Plan for the i'revention and Control of AIDS in India 1990-
1992, MOHFW, Directorate Gene-al of Health Services in collaboration
with WHO, New Delhi, February 1990.
5.    National AIDS Control Program, India, Country Scenario, Directorate
General of Health Services, New Delhi, February 1991. 
6.   Xonthly Update on HIV Infection In India, Directorate General of Health
Services, MOHFW, September 1991.
7.   AIDS Surveillance Program: An Integrated Approach, MOHFW, Directorate
General of Health Servi3es, May 1991.
8.    Medical Store Organization, MOHFW, October 1991.
9.    Administrative Guidelines for Blood Transfusion Services, MOHFW, New
Delhi, 1987.
10.   Standards for Blood Banks and Transfusion Services, MOHFW, New Delhi,
1987.
11.   Tabular Information on Legal Instruments Dealing with AIDS Infection and
AIDS, All Countries and Jurisdictions, WHO/GPA/HLE/91.1, May 1991, pp.
1-136.



