Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20138
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2350-IN)
March 21, 2000
Health, Nutrition & Population Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 19, 2000)
Currency Unit      =           Rupee
Rupee 43.5         =           US$1.00
Rupee 1.0          =           US$0.02299
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
DFID        Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
GOI         Government of India
GPA         Global Programme on AIDS/WHO
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA         International Development Association (World Bank)
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
MOHFW       Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI
NACO        National AIDS Control Organization
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
PHC         Primary Health Care
SAC         State AIDS Cells
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
STD         Sexually Transmitted Disease
TAC         Technical Advisory Committee
VVHO        World Health Organization
UNAIDS      Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
UT          Union Territories
Vice President    :Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director     Edwin Lim
Sector Director      Richard Skolnik
Task Leaders         Laura Kiang and Salim Habayeb



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
(CR.2350- IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...............i
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives. 
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                     .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                   .7
D. Project Sustainability                           .9
E. Bank Performance .10
F. Borrower Perfornance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .1
H. Future Operations .1
I. Key Lessons Learned .12
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments            ..14
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits         ..16
Table 3.  Project Timetable            ..20
Table 4.     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ..    20
Table 5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .      .21
Table 6.      Studies Included in the Project   ..23
Table 7A.  Project Costs by Component    ..25
Table 7B.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement    .    .26
Table 7C.   Project Financing by Component    ..27
Table 8.     Economic Costs and Benefits
A. AIDS Cases and Costs with and without the Project .28
B. Analysis of Return on Investment (1992-2000) .29
Table 9.   Status of Legal Covenants         ..30
Table 10.     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   .   .32
Table 11.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs       ..33
Table 12.  Bank Resources: Missions          ..34
APPENDICES:
Appendix A. The ICR Mission's Aide Memoire .35
Appendix B.  Borrower's contribution to the ICR .42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2350-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National AIDS Control
Project in India (Credit 2350-IN). An IDA credit of SDR 59.8 million (US$84.0 million
equivalent) was approved on March 31, 1992 and made effective on April 30, 1992.
The Credit closed on March 31, 1999, 18 months later than the original credit closing
date. The Credit amount was fully disbursed, with the last disbursements taking place on
September 7, 1999.
This ICR was prepared by Laura Kiang and Salim Habayeb (Task Leaders) with the
assistance of Vivian Mendoza in preparing statistical tables, and Jane Mukira in document
preparation and processing. Initial drafts were reviewed by Dr. Anthony Measham (Advisor,
BNP) and Dr. David Peters (SASHP), who provided valuable comments. Peer reviewers were
Dr. Philip Gowers (AFrH1) and Mr. Christopher Walker, (HDNHE). This ICR has been
reviewed and cleared by Richard Skolnik, Sector Director, SASHP.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision and completion mission
in February 1999. It is based on the mission's findings which are included as Appendix A to the
ICR, materials in the project files, and discussions with project staff and Government officials as
well as Bank staff.
The Borrower contributed significantly to the preparation of the ICR. The National AIDS
Organization (NACO) provided the Bank with information on implementation results. The
Borrower also provided feedback on the quality of the Bank's contribution from project
identification to supervision. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) prepared
an overall assessment, the summary of which is included in this report. The draft ICR was
shared with the Borrower and their comments were taken into account in the final version.
The cooperation and assistance of the Government of India (GOI) and the NACO
throughout the implementation process and preparation of this ICR are gratefully acknowledged.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT (CREDIT 2350-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The National AIDS Control Project was the first project in India to develop a national public
health program in HIV/AIDS prevention and control, and was implemented between 1992 and 1999. In
the late 1980s, India had a limited HIV/AIDS program focusing on blood safety and some health
education activities. In the early 1990s, the HIlV epidemic was growing in India, although this was not
acknowledged by large segments of civil society. The Central Government prepared a five-year (1992-
97) National Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS, including an investment plan
for funding by the World Bank and the World Health Organization (WHO). The Credit constituted the
larger part of the program and the project was based on a centrally sponsored scheme for which the Union
Government bore most costs.
Project Objectives
2.    The ultimate objective of the project was to slow the spread of HIV to reduce future morbidity,
mortality, and the impact of AIDS by initiating a major effort in the prevention of IRV transmnission. It
constituted a start-up investment to launch expanded preventive activities. The specific objectives were
to: (a) involve all States and Union Territories in developing HIV/AIDS preventive activities with a
special focus on the major epicenters of the epidemic; (b) attain a satisfactory level of public awareness
on HIV transmission and prevention; (c) develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior
groups; (d) screen the majority of blood units collected for blood transfusions; (e) decrease the practice of
professional blood donations; (f) develop skills in clinical management, health education and counseling,
and psycho-social support to HIV sero-positive persons, AIDS patients and their associates;(g) strengthen
the control of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD); and (h) monitor the development of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in the country.
3.    The project objectives were clear and specific. They were in line with the broad sectoral strategy
of the Government, and initiated the development of sub-sectoral strategies on HIVIAIDS. The expected
outputs and outcome indicators proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report were used to assess the project's
performance. At start-up, the limited national capacity to deal with HIV/AIDS called for a simple,
realistic and flexible framework. The design included five basic components: (a) strengthening
management capacity for HIV/AIDS control; (b) promoting public awareness and community support; (c)
improving blood safety and rational use; (d) controlling sexually transmitted diseases; and (e) building
surveillance and clinical management capacity. After the development of a program framework, the
central Government pursued incremental efforts to generate state responses and commitment. At the mid-
term review, it was concluded that the objectives of the project remained valid and attainable.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of project objectives. The project achieved its main purpose and specific
objectives after overcoming the initial challenges faced by the Union and State Governments. These
ranged from severely limited capacity across sectors to denial and low commitment in many states.
During the implementation period, the project substantially achieved its specific objectives and often
exceeded the original targets. This included nationwide capacity building in managerial and technical
aspects of the program in all 32 states and Union Territories (UTs). Multi-sectoral involvement was
gradually built up. Project activities were integrated to the maximum extent possible with the existing
health care system. Efforts to target vulnerable risk groups gradually increased after a slow start, when



- iI -
the capacity of NGOs to deal with HIV/AIDS was still limited except in a few areas. There was a 50
percent increase in the volume of condom distribution through social marketing. Condom use in targeted
risk groups increased from less than 10 percent to a range of 50-90 percent. In selected major states,
awareness about prevention of HV infection reached a range of 54-78 percent. Screening of donated
blood became almost universal by the end of the project. Professional blood donations were banned by
law. Under the project, 504 STD clinics were strengthened with improved effectiveness and quality of
STD management. The syndromic approach for STD treatment was developed beyond initial project
plans. Surveillance capacity was developed in 140 centers and 180 sentinel sites nationwide. However,
the capacity to implement programs was uneven across the states, due to varying capacity and
commitment. The center and the major project targeted epicenters of Mumbai and Chennai showed high
overall performance in implementing the program. Two-thirds of the 32 States/UTs performed
satisfactorily and the remaining one-third of the States did not perform effectively.
5.    In contrast with other project objectives that can be readily measured, it is difficult to assess the
project's contribution to slowing the spread of HIV. Nonetheless, the 1998 HIV sero-prevalence in the
adult population of India was estimated at about 0.9 percent. The cumulative rate for all HIV tests
performed in the country, including both high and low risk groups, has shown a slow pattern of increase
from 1 percent positive in 1992 to 2.3 percent positive in all tests in 1998. Although the infection rate in
the general population has been increasing slowly, the rates have shown a rapid rise in groups whose
behavior places them at high risk. The reported number of AIDS cases was significantly lower than the
number of cases projected by WHO/GPA at appraisal. However, while the AIDS prevalence remained
much lower than projected, surveillance surveys show that HIV continues to spread rapidly and the scale
of the epidemic in many states is massive, constituting a development crisis in India.
6.    Sustainability. The probability of the Project's sustainability is high. The Borrower has already
taken the necessary steps to maintain and build upon the Project's achievements through a follow-up
program. The project's interventions were largely preventive and recurrent costs generated by the GOI,
UTs, and States were negligible. Within the overall health budget, expenditure on FHIV/AIDS prevention
is very small. By enhancing prevention, the GOI sought to limit and delay a shift of health resources to
additional curative care. The GOI' s comiitment and the substantial amount of capacity building
developed under the project provide a firm basis for sustainability. The project has been institutionalized
and integrated within the Government's national development plans.
7.    Sector Policy. The Project made important contributions to developing policies associated with
HIV/AIDS and to amending inappropriate ones. Policy developments included: (a) promulgation and
enforcement of regulations upgrading the quality specifications of condoms through the amendment of
the Drugs and Cosmetics Act; (b) promotion of policies for humane treatment of persons living with
HIV/AIDS and amending regulations which facilitated discrimination; (c) maintaining central
sponsorship for program funding to encourage slow responding states; and (d) exempting all financial
contributions to the National and State Transfusion Councils from income tax. In addition, a draft
HIV/AIDS National Policy Document, which was formulated in close consultation with major
stakeholders, is now ready for approval by Cabinet.
8.    Project Cost, Disbursements, and Timetable. The project was estimated to cost US$99.6
million at the time of appraisal, and was to be financed by a Government contribution of US$14.1 million
(Rs.359.6 million), an IDA credit of US$84.0 million (SDR 59.8 rnillion equivalent), and a WHO co-
financing grant of US$1.5 million. The Project was originally designed for the five-year period 1992 to
1997, but due to slow implementation at stalt-up, it was extended by 18 months in order to enhance
program capacity building and institutional strengthening to promote sustainability. With the extension it
was able to meet most targets and the Credit was closed on March 31, 1999. The final disbursement took
place on September 7, 1999, at which time SDR 59.8 million (US$84.2 million equivalent), the original
principal amount of the Credit, was fully disbursed, US$2.2 million of WHO grants were utilized, and the
Government contribution reached US$27.5 million, an increase of US$13.4 million over the original plan.



- iii -
9.    Key Factors Affecting the Project. The main factor contributing to the success of the project
was the generally high level of commitment of the GOI to initiating HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
Key factors initially limiting project implementation were: (a) this operation constituted a new program
in an unfamiliar area of public health with little existing capacity to cope with HIV; (b) large segments of
the civil society did not acknowledge HIV as a priority in-the early 1990s and were critical of the Central
Government and the World Bank for diverting attention towards HIV/AIDS; (c) it was difficult to
identify, reach, and cover risk groups; (d) linkages to sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis were
inadequate; (e) Borrower's and recipients' non-familiarity with guidelines and project processing
requirements; (f) staffing vacancies, frequent transfers, holding of dual charges, and changes in staffing
patterns; (g) lack of ownership by State level staff who perceived the AIDS Program as a centrally driven
scheme; (h) mixed effectiveness of the empowered committees in the States; (i) delays in fund release
from State Departments of Finance to Program Cells; () lack of uniformity in the processes used in many
states for the disbursement of funds; and (k) lack of infrastructural support in many State AIDS Cells.
10.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance in implementation has been satisfactory.
The project was incorporated in the GOI's 8th Five-Year Plan at a rather late stage and this contributed to
implementation delays at the start-up. There were delays in the procurement of equipment and medical
supplies during the first part of project implementation, due to non-familiarity with requirements by GOI
of IDA guidelines. Weak financial reporting and lack of timely reimbursement claims and audits
disrupted smooth fund flow from IDA throughout the Project's life. Measures were taken for better
utilization of allocations around the mid-term review. As a result, most operational targets were met and
the Credit was fully disbursed.
11.    Bank Performance. The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank mobilized
high quality technical assistance from international centers of excellence like the US Centers of Disease
Control and Prevention in addition to the extensive technical expertise provided by WHO/GPA. The
Bank also worked closely with the GOI in collaborating with external partners to assist in HI-V control,
including USAID, DFID and UNAIDS, under the leadership of NACO. The project was monitored
closely through supervision missions and through the resident technical assistance of WHO. The
missions were regular and thorough. Prompt resolution of implementation issues, notably during the
second part of the project period, contributed to better implementation.
12.   Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, notably in building the
program and in attaining the stated objectives as discussed previously. Although it is not easy to estimate
the number of HIV cases averted compared to what would have been the case without the project, it is
evident that the project has generated a number of important results as discussed in paragraphs 4 and 5.
Sero-surveillance evidence in 1998 has shown the following: (i) no State or UT has a generalized
epidemic at present; (ii) a concentrated epidemic - 1 (1-5 percent) in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Manipur; (iii) a concentrated epidemic - II (< 1 percent) in Gujarat, West
Bengal and Nagaland; (iv) a low level epidemic in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh,
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Orissa, Assam, Kerala, Meghalaya, Sikkim, and Arunachal
Pradesh. However, the threat of HIV/AIDS in India will remain a major and potentially catastrophic
issue, and it calls for an urgently enhanced response.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Future Operation. As a reflection of GOI's and IDA's focus on the control of key endemic
diseases, especially those associated with poverty, a Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project was
appraised in December 1998 and approved by the Board in June 1999. The project will pursue,
complement, improve and expand the preventive activities initiated under the first project by assisting the
GOI to enhance HIV/AIDS interventions, particularly among marginalized groups at high risk. It will
also focus on developing and delivering cost-effective interventions, while further promoting
decentralization to State and District levels.



- iv -
14.   Key Lessons Learned
Institutional:
*  When there is a new public health threat inadequately recognized by the civil society and
participatory approaches are limited, it is necessary that the central government play a major leading
role at the start-up phase to initiate a national response.
*  Following the start-up phase, program implementation needs to be decentralized to States and
Municipal Corporations, to enable stronger local responses, and to accommodate varying
epidemiological patterns, institutional capacities, and commitment to the program. This calls for
devolution of service activities, combined with a strengthened coordination role for the central level.
*  Advocacy and coordination among various sectors, including the private sector, need to be developed.
Technical and Social:
*  It is necessary to adopt a multi-pronged approach in planning, prioritized program interventions, and
the dissemination of public information to persons who are in risk situations, including many married
females.
*  Effective targeted interventions require high levels of coverage and saturation, and the identification,
reach and coverage of vulnerable risk behavior groups remains very challenging.
*  The creation of an enabling environment, which includes policy adjustments, supportive inputs and
empowerment processes of the marginalized groups, is needed to facilitate behavior change. Public
relations efforts and careful program design are needed to minimize the stigma and marginalization of
highly vulnerable groups. Stigmatizing risk behavior persons leads them further "underground" and
is detrimental to program effectiveness. Targeted interventions to such groups should be embedded
in a broader national program.
*  Blood safety is most effectively addressed in the broader context of an improved blood banking
system rather than through HIV testing only.
*  The distribution of HlV/AIDS in India is not uniform. The epidemic is focused sharply in a few
states with most of India having low rates of infection. Unless this differential is taken into account
for planning interventions, efforts are likely to be inadequate in some areas and inappropriate in
others.
*  Effective program management requires high quality, up-to-date epidemiological and management
information.
Operational:
*  Variability of State performance within India needs to be addressed.
*  Developing a computerized Financial Management System (FMS) would alleviate issues related to
fund flow processes, financial and accounting procedures, budgeting and forecasting system, internal
control mechanisms and auditing arrangements.
*  The use of Charted Accountant firms in auditing at the State level is required to alleviate lapses in the
submission of audit reports.
*  Monitoring activities should be an integral part of the routine functions of the program and cannot be
ad hoc activities linked solely to the Bank's supervision missions.
*  The porous boundaries of the country and the major cross-border flows of various population groups
by land and sea require an enhanced regional approach.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT (CREDIT 2350-IN)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction. The National AIDS Control Project was implemented between 1992 and
1999. This was the first project in India to develop an expanded national public health program
in HIV/AIDS control. Beginning in 1986, with the first reporting of AIDS cases in India, the
union Government started recognizing the problem and began efforts to deal with HIV. A
National AIDS Control Program was initiated in 1987 with a budget of about US$2.0 million per
year. Prior to this project, the Government of India (GOI) was interested in blood safety and
certain health education activities, and state government's interest in HIV prevention was limited
to blood safety only, even though sexual transmission was the main driving force behind the
AIDS epidemic.
2.    In the early 1990s, the HIV/AIDS epidemic was growing, but was not acknowledged by
large segments of civil society. The dialogue to expand the preventive program package was
difficult, but perseverance paid off and finally culminated in the GOI's endorsement of broad
preventive activities to slow HIV transmission and to start building national capacity for an
expanded AIDS prevention and control program. In 1991, the GOI prepared a five-year (1992-
1997) National Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of HrV/AIDS, including an
investment plan for funding by the World Bank and World Health Organization (WHO). The
World Bank funding constituted the large part of the national program. The scope of the project
at the State level varied with each intervention, taking into account the need, absorptive capacity,
feasibility and efficiency.
3.    Project Objective. The ultimate objective of the project was to slow the spread of HIV
in India in order to reduce future morbidity, mortality and the impact of AIDS by initiating major
effort in the prevention of HIV transmission. The project constituted a start-up investment to
launch expanded preventive activities. The specific objectives were the following:
(a) Involve all States and Union Territories in developing HIV/AIDS preventive activities
with a special focus on the major epicenters of the epidemic;
(b) Attain a satisfactory level of public awareness about HIV transmission and prevention;
(c) Develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior groups;
(d) Screen the majority of blood units collected for blood transfusions;



-2 -
(e) Decrease the practice of professional blood donations;
(f) Develop skills in clinical management, health education and counseling, and psycho-
social support to H1V sero-positive persons, AIDS patients and their associates;
(g) Strengthen the control of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD); and
(h) Monitor the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country.
4.    Project Components. To accomplish the objectives, the project had a multi-pronged
strategy and comprised five components:
(a) Strengthening the management capacity for the HIV/AIDS prevention and control program
through the formation and support of organizational structures at the National and State level;
(b) Promoting public awareness and community support for AIDS prevention with a primary
focus on sexual transmission, behavioral change and condom promotion through television
and radio stations, private advertising agencies, Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs)
and the health system;
(c) Improving blood safety from 30 percent to 90 percent screening of the blood supply,
enhancing the rational use of blood and the share of voluntary donations;.
(d) Building surveillance and clinical management capacity to monitor the spread of the
epidemic and to strengthen the skills of health staff and social workers in managing and
counseling persons with HIV/AIDS; and
(e) Controlling sexually transmitted diseases by improving clinical services and case
management in the country's STD clinics and in private practice in metropolitan areas.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were clear, specific and realistic.
They were in line with the broad sectoral strategy of the GOI and initiated the development of
sub-sectoral strategies on HIV/AIDS. The objectives had specific expected outputs and outcome
indicators set forth in the Staff Appraisal Report matrix and were used to assess the project's
performance. At start-up, widespread denial and limited national capacity to deal with
HIV/AIDS called for a simple, realistic and flexible framework. After the development of a
program framework, the GOI sought to generate state responses and commitment. Flexibility in
program design was maintained and the states were encouraged to tailor their programs
according to their own needs. The number of responsive and participating states increased
gradually. At the mid-term review, it was concluded that the objectives of the project remained
valid and attainable; in fact, some of the objectives had already been achieved by that time.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    General Objective: Constitute a start-up investment to launch expanded preventive
activities in the control offHIVtransmission. The project achieved its main purpose. The initial



- 3 -
challenges faced by the Union and State Governments were immense and ranged from limited
capacity in various sectors to denial and lack of comrnitment in many states. During the
implementation period, a national program with substantial capacity was developed. The project
was a centrally sponsored scheme for which the Union Government bore most of the costs. The
project activities were integrated to the maximum extent possible with the existing health
infrastructure and made use of other agencies, NGOs and the private sector in areas in which
they had a comparative advantage.
7.    Ultimately, slow the spread of HIV in India in order to reduce future morbidity,
mortality and the impact of AIDS. Since there was no reliable surveillance data prior to the
project, it is not easy to compare and measure the impact of interventions aiming to slow the
spread of HIV in India. However, it would be reasonable to assume, for technical reasons, that
the project interventions such as condom promotion, blood safety, public awareness, and STD
control, did contribute to slow the spread of H[V. For example, as a result of cleaner blood
supply and relatec actions taken under the project, it is estimated that about one-third of a million
HIV cases have been averted. The 1998 HIV sero-prevalence in the adult population of India
was estimated to be about 0.9 percent. The cumulative rate for all IV tests performed in the
country, including both high and low risk groups, has shown a slow pattern of increase from
1 percent in 1992 to 2.3 percent in all tests in 1998. While the infection rate in the general
population has been increasing slowly, the rates have shown a rapid rise in groups whose
behavior places them at high risk. Accordingly, the number of reported AIDS cases also has
been consistently rising over the years (from six cases in 1986 to 5,204 cases in 1997/98).
Taking into account gross under reporting, the reported AIDS cases are significantly lower than
the number of cases projected by WHO/GPA at appraisal (992,000 AIDS cases by year 2000).
However, while AIDS prevalence remained much lower than projected, the surveillance surveys
show that IEV continues to spread rapidly and the scale of the epidemic in many regions is
massive, constituting a development crisis in India.
8.    Specific Objectives: Involve all States and Union Territories in developing HIVIAIDS
preventive activities with a specialfocus on the major epicenters of the epidemic. This
objective has been achieved. In 1992, the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO), the
apex orchestrating agency, was established in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(MOHFW) with a certain degree of autonomy to allow easy and quick decision making on major
operational issues. To enhance its status, NACO was headed by an Additional Secretary as its
Project Director. A National AIDS Control Board was constituted at the national level under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of Health, MOHEW, to review NACO policies, to expedite
sanctions, to approve procurement, and to monitor state implementation. Since 1992-93, State
AIDS Cells (SACs) have been set up in all the 25 states and seven Union Territories for
implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities. However, the ability to
implement programs was uneven across states, due to their varying capacity and commitment.
The Cencer and the major targeted epicenters of Mumbai and Chennai showed high performance.
Two-thirds of the 32 States and Union Territories performed adequately. The remaining one-
third of the States continued to show a weak response, most likely due to multiple factors
including denial, low disease burden and invisible epidemic. Other factors which led to uneven
performance among States were recognized as the centralization of the planning and
implementation processes and mixed ownership. This calls for increased future technical



- 4 -
assistance and further promoting decentralization to the State and District levels that should be
facilitated by the Central Government.
9.    Attain a satisfactory level of public awareness on HIV transmission and prevention.
This objective has been substantially achieved. Promoting public awareness and community
support of HIV prevention was accorded a high priority under the program. A six-pronged
strategy including mass media, advocacy, and NGO involvement was implemented countrywide.
In metropolitan areas, mass media exposure exceeded 60 percent of the effort in this strategy.
Awareness surveys showed marked improvement: knowledge concerning the prevention of HIV
infection in selected major states increased from 54 percent to 80 percent in urban areas and from
13 percent to 64 percent in rural areas. Condom distribution increased 50 percent through Social
Marketing. Some states have incorporated HIV education in their formal curricula at the
secondary level. Public awareness gained special significance when the difficulties of reaching
high risk behavior groups were fully realized. The Government's strategies for the awareness
program were expanded to other sectors, including Departments of Youth Affairs, Information &
Broadcasting, Industry and Corporate Groups, Tourism, Human Resource Development, Coal &
Mines, Labor, Educational Research and Training, Social Justice and Employment, and the
Indian Council of Medical Research and Women Affairs.
10.   Develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior groups. This objective has
been substantially achieved vis-a-vis the original benchmarks. Efforts to target vulnerable risk
groups gradually increased after a very slow start. Policies were developed during the project
implementation for humane treatment of persons living with HIV/AIDS such as the amendment
of the Goa Public Health Act. A sub-committee on social, ethical and legal issues was set up
under the Technical Advisory Committee. Interventions for vulnerable groups were developed
in two-thirds of the 32 States. Capacity building of 150 NGOs has exceeded the original scope
of 100 NGOs in 12 States. The capacity of NGOs to deal with HIV/AIDS was initially limited
except in a few areas. NGOs were encouraged to design interventions which could benefit from
public sector funding. Guidelines have been formulated for funding NGOs and for interventions
at the community level. To generate better interaction between the Government and NGOs, a
position of NGO advisor has been created at the national level and in a few states for providing
technical support, training capacity building and monitoring of NGO activities. In some of the
more responsive states, credible NGOs have been integrated into the overall state program
strategy. However, the use of NGO services was uneven across states. While some performed
quite well, some state programs did not tie together the services of good NGOs.
11.   Screen the majority of blood units collectedfor blood transfusions. This objective has
been fully achieved. The GOI has made an effort to revamp the blood banking services. The
State and Union Territories have played a major role in providing basic infrastructure facilities,
monitoring and coordination of blood bank management. Public sector and voluntary blood
banks, of which 815 were strengthened and 154 zonal blood-testing centers were established to
provide linkages with other blood banks affiliated with the public, private and voluntary sector,
have exceeded the original target. Mandating HIV screening for all blood transfusions and
testing of all blood units for [IV and Hepatitis-B were introduced, in addition to testing for
malaria and syphilis. As a result, blood safety increased from 30 percent in 1992 to virtual
universal coverage at present exceeding the original target of 90 percent. However, there are



- 5 -
instances where untested blood transfusions may occur in urgent situations, notably in remote
areas or due to non-compliance in sections of the private sector with current blood screening
laws.
12.   Decrease the practice of professional blood donations. This objective has been fully
achieved. Professional paid donations have been totally prohibited by law whereas the original
target called for a reduction of 30 percent. Since the commercial blood donation activities have
been banned in the country, campaigns to increase voluntary blood donation have been
implemented under the program. However, it is estimated that about 5 percent of replacement
donations are "disguised" professional donations.
13.   Develop skills in clinical management, health education and counseling and psycho-
social support to HIV sero-positive persons, AIDS patients and their associates. This objective
has been substantially achieved. A training module in AIDS case management with emphasis on
counseling was circulated. A training module and guidelines for primary health care physicians
has been completed and technical skill enhancement/training under the project in HIV/AIDS
topics has covered 45,000 public sector physicians and 7,500 private sector physicians. In
collaboration with NACO and WHO, a comprehensive training manual for nurses has also been
completed to use in both pre-service and in-service training. However, progress in nursing
training has been slower overall, with the notable exception of a few states. Manipur, for
example has trained 60 percent of its nurses. With more AIDS cases arising, the need has
increased for more counseling training in the states.
14.   Strengthen control of STD in STD clinics. This objective has been substantially
achieved. Activities under STD control included strengthening 504 existing STD clinics in
public sector hospitals through training of Medical Officers in diagnosis and treatment of STD
cases, which exceeded the original target of 372 clinics. At the project start-up, a limited number
of facilities provided quality diagnosis and treatment. During implementation, the cycle of care
and the effectiveness and quality of STD management were improved. Also, the program
emphasized behavioral change and the reduction of the social stigma attached to the problem of
STD. In addition, the syndromic approach at the primary health care level was launched beyond
original project plans. Five regional STD referral centers were upgraded to conduct training,
research, supervision and monitoring. About 19,000 medical officers were trained in STD
syndromic case management and more than 10,000 private health care providers were trained by
the Indian Medical Association. Most districts have provided facilities for managing the STD
control program.
15.   Monitor the development of the HIVWAIDS epidemic in the country. This objective has
been achieved. Sero-surveillance capacity has been developed in 140 centers and 180 sentinel
sites nationwide. The development of a sentinel surveillance system has helped in assessing the
progression of the HIV epidemic in India and has provided monitoring data. Sero-surveillance
evidence in 1998 shows the following:



-6 -
(i)   No State or Union Territory has a generalized epidemic at present;
(ii) There is a concentrated epidemic - 1 (1-5 percent)1' in Maharashtra, Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Manipur;
(iii) There is a concentrated epidemic - II (< 1 percent)1' in Gujarat, West Bengal and
Nagaland;
(iv)  There is a low level epidemic 21 in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Orissa, Assam, Kerala,
Meghalaya, Sikkim, and Arunachal Pradesh.
16.   Sector Policies. The project made important contributions to developing policies
associated with HIV/AIDS. Policy developments included: (a) promulgation and enforcement of
regulations upgrading the quality specifications of condoms through the amendment of the Drugs
and Cosmetics Act; (b) promotion of policies for humane treatment of persons living with
HIV/AIDS, and amending regulations which facilitated discrimination such as the Goa Public
Health Act; (c) the GOI has maintained central sponsorship for program funding to encourage
slow responding states; and (d) the GOI has exempted financial contributions to the National and
State Transfusion Councils from income tax. In addition, a draft HIV/AIDS National Policy
Document, which was formulated in close consultation with all stakeholders and includes the
rights and responsibilities of those with HIV infection, was approved by the National AIDS
Committee and the Central Council for Health and Family Welfare. The Policy Paper is now
ready for approval by the Cabinet.
17.   Financial Objectives. The GOI realized that responding promptly to the 1-UV epidemic,
in spite of the controversy at that time, would be the most effective control strategy and would
cost only a fraction of what would be required at a later stage if the infection had been allowed to
become more widespread. The project was originally designed for the five-year period 1992 to
1997, but start-up implementation in this new program was slow, and led to lower levels of
expenditure in the first three years of the project. This, combined with the steady depreciation of
the Indian Rupee against the SDR led to excess funds in the Credit at the original closing date.
Thus, in order to consolidate the gains of the project, particularly with regard to capacity
building and institutional strengthening promoting sustainability, the IDA and the GOI decided
to extend the project by 18 months. With the extension, it met most targets and the Credit was
fully utilized. Public expenditure on HIV/AIDS control grew ten-fold from about US$2 million
a year in 1990 to about US$20 million in 1998.
18.  Institutional Objectives. Initially, it was necessary for the Central Government to play a
major leading role to launch this public health initiative. After developing program framework,
the Central Government then pursued generating commitment by the states. Flexibility in
" ANC HIV prevalence.
21 STD/HRG HIV prevalence of less than 5% and negligible ANC HIV prevalence.



- 7 -
program design was maintained and the states were encouraged to tailor their programs
according to their own needs. The number of responsive and participating states gradually
increased. Concurrently, NACO developed its capacity to provide day-to-day operational
coordination with financial and administrative powers, and to implement the five-year strategic
plan. Following the mid-term review, the program became performance-based, providing
budgets to the states in accordance with their financial performance in the program.
19.   Adequacy of project design. The project design was appropriate for achieving the
stated objectives. The components had strategic impact on meeting the project objectives, it was
flexible, and allowed States to design their own interventions. It capitalized on existing capacity
and commitment, and built these up where they did not exist. The mid-term review carried out at
the end of 1995 with the Union and State Governments and with WHO, concluded that the
objectives of the project remained valid and attainable. Some of the objectives had already been
achieved at that time. However, the special vulnerability of females and additional technical
assistance to the States should have been given additional consideration in project design.
20.   Project Cost and Disbursement. The project was estimated at US$99.6 million at the
time of appraisal, and was to be financed by a GOI contribution of US$14.1 million (Rs.359.6
million), an IDA credit of US$84.0 million (SDR 59.8 million equivalent) and a WHO co-
financing grant of US$1.5 million. The final disbursement took place on September 7, 1999, at
which time SDR 59.8 million (US$84.2 million equivalent), the original principal amount of the
Credit was fully disbursed, US$2.2 million of WHO grants was utilized, and the GOI
contribution came to US$27.5 million, an increase of US$13.4 million over the original plan.
21.   Economic Benefits. A counterfactual estimate of AIDS cases with and without the
project was given in the SAR. An analysis of the return on the investment was illustrated with a
conservative scenario of effective prevention estimated at 30 percent. This meant that at least
300,000 AIDS cases would be averted by the year 2000. However, it is not possible to estimate
the number of HIV cases averted compared to what would have been the case without the
project. To be consistent with the counterfactual estimate stated in the SAR, a similar
methodology was used in the reassessment at project completion. The reported AIDS cases at
the end of the project were much lower than anticipated. Corrections for under-reporting were
made in order to compensate for unreported AIDS cases under various scenarios. The project
has shown a high return in terms of the direct cost associated with AIDS cases both in the public
and private sector. An updated analysis of the return on the investment at the end of project is
given in Table 8 (Part II). However, because of the difficulties in attributing the benefits
solely to project interventions, and because of the unreliability of epidemiological
projections in the early 1990s and other factors, the counterfactual estimate is presented
for illustrative purposes only.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   A major factor contributing to the success of the project was the relatively high
commitment of the GOI in initiating the development of HIV/AIDS prevention and control to
preserve human capital and to minimize the reversal of health improvements. In reviewing the
implementation experience of the project, it is useful to bear the following factors in mind:



-8 -
Institutional:
* The start-up difficulties were encountered because the program was new and in an unfamiliar
area of public health and because of limited capacity to cope with HIV.
* The physical isolation of the National AIDS Control Organization during the first two years
of the project was detrimental. Initially located away from the Ministry, it was perceived by
public sector staff as a foreign body. The program was more accepted when its management
was housed in the Ministry in the third year.
* Vacancies, frequent transfers, holding of dual charges, and changes in staffing patterns
hampered the effective discharge of their duties and responsibilities by NACO and the State
Cells. There was also an overload of work due to the lack of sufficient personnel for
documentation, finance, and administrative monitoring.
* Many state governments did not perceive the AIDS issue and the AIDS Prevention and
Control Program as their concern, but as a centrally driven scheme to which they had no
inputs and over which they exercised little control and therefore, no "ownership". There was
a constant need for advocacy in most states in order to establish the importance of
HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and control activities, and to generate a multi-sectoral
commitment to the program.
Technical and Social:
- Large segments of civil society and the media did not acknowledge FHV as a priority in the
early 1990s and were critical of the Central Government and of the World Bank for diverting
attention towards HIV/AIDS.
- It was difficult to identify and to reach risk groups.
*  The linkages of HIV/AIDS to sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis were deficient in
the India Program. This should be addressed in the future because dealing appropriately with
such diseases can contribute to the reduction of the burden of HIV.
Operational:
*  The empowered committees were not effective in all of the States, and had limited capacity
to initiate activities.
* Implementation of the National AIDS Control Program was at times constrained by the need
to satisfy the administrative and procedural requirements of different entities within the
Government and the World Bank. This led to delays in program implementation.
* Some States were reluctant to take initiative on program implementation, waiting instead for
guidelines or instructions from NACO before taking action even on routine matters. On the



-9 -
other hand, such guidelines, when issued, constrained other states, who were taking up
program activities through their own initiatives.
*  The disbursement of funds to the State Cells in support of project activities remained
problematic in most states. Funds were often not released from state departments of finance
to the Program Cells, or were released so late in the financial year as to render them
ineffective. This caused delays or prevented implementation of project activities, notably in
the early stages of the project.
*  The release of funds by the State Cells to district and community based organizations also
remained problematic. There was little uniformity in the processes used in many states for
the disbursement of funds, and the inability of the States Cells to disburse funds to the
peripheral level further retarded the effective implementation of project activities, especially
during the first years of implementation.
*  Many State AIDS Cells lacked basic infrastructural support, i.e., adequate office
accommodation, telephone connections, etc., to effectively orchestrate and implement the
program at the state level.
D.    SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Project Sustainability. The probability of the Project's sustainability is high. The
Borrower has already taken the necessary steps to maintain and build upon the Project's
achievements. The follow-up expanded program phase is beginning under a second IDA-
financed project. Capacity building under the project has been substantial and will contribute to
enhancing sustainability. The project has helped to develop a multi-pronged program, which has
been institutionalized within the sector and within the Government's national development plans.
24.   Furthermore, at the central level, by the end of the project, NACO had established itself
as the leader in coordinating India's response to HIV/AIDS. NACO's effective performance is
further demonstrated by: (i) its successful leadership of the first nationwide HIV sentinel
surveillance in 1998; (ii) judicious responses to the varied needs of the states; (iii) important
initiatives taken in liaising with other public and private sectors; and (iv) its increasingly
effective role in coordinating the activities of a large number of participants and external donors.
25.   Sustainability at the individual state level varies. Prospects for sustainability are best in
states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu (where the epidemic is visible) as evidenced by the wide
range and high quality of operational activities, research, and policy, that are now being
undertaken in those states. Prospects for sustainability in other states with low responses are less
certain, although in those cases, the prevalence level is currently much lower than elsewhere, and
further support and attention will be enhanced during the next phase of action.
26.   Financial Sustainability. The project's interventions were largely preventive, and
recurrent costs generated by the GOI and the States were negligible. By enhancing prevention,
the Government sought to minimize the need for additional resources for curative care. Within
overall health budgets, expenditure on AIDS prevention and control was very small and has



- 10-
generated only a small recurrent cost liability. The GOI has shown strong commitment and
maintained federal funding to the program. Also, the Bank and MOHFW have initiated for the
first time a collaborative study on health financing for the sector regarding HIV/AIDS. The
review helped identify gaps in the financing of sectoral interventions and how they can be
effectively and efficiently met.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   The overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory. The Bank, WHO and the
Government of India identified a project that was a high priority at the time, even though this
was not adequately acknowledged by large segments of civil society and other stakeholders.
Assistance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project contributed to the
development of significant policy changes in the sector. The Bank mobilized high quality
technical assistance from international centers of excellence like the US Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, in addition to the extensive technical expertise provided by WHO/GPA.
The Bank also worked closely with the GOI to collaborate with external partners in HIV control,
including USAID, DFID and UNAIDS, under the leadership of NACO. The project was closely
monitored through WHO resident technical assistance. Supervision missions were regular and
thorough, and they consistently discussed and agreed on ways of overcoming implementation
problems. Prompt resolution of implementation issues, notably during the second part of the
project period, contributed to better implementation.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   The Borrower's performance in implementation has been satisfactory, notably at the
central level. The GOI coordinated the project, developed policy and technical guidelines,
implemented public awareness activities, and carried out major procurement and logistics.
Thirty two states and Union Territories (UTs) were involved in implementing the project
components. GOI procured goods on behalf of the states and UTs and financed all project costs
borne by the states and UTs. The project was originally designed for the five-year period 1992
to 1997, but due to slow implementation at start-up, it was extended by 18 months. With the
extension it was able to meet most targets and the Credit was fully disbursed. As noted earlier,
performance among the states was mixed. Several states with high commitment provided
additional funds from their own state resources.
29.   Procurement. There were delays in the procurement of equipment and medical supplies
during the first year of project implementation due to non-familiarity with the requirements of
GOI and IDA guidelines. However, the critical blood safety supplies were procured through
WHO up to an aggregate amount of about US$27.0 million.
30.   Flow of Funds. The project was launched as a centrally sponsored scheme and was
incorporated in the GOI's 8th Five Year Plan at a rather late stage. Funds were only released at
the end of the 1993 financial year. This is one of the many reasons that implementation was
delayed at start-up. Measures were taken for better utilization of allocations around the mid-term
review. For example, state governments were authorized to sanction funds to NGOs and the
slow performing states were offered assistance for providing the necessary thrust and direction to



- 11 -
the program. The better performing states were given additional funds based on their
performance.
31.   Financial Reporting and Audits. Weak financial reporting and lack of timely
reimbursement claims and audits disrupted smooth fund flows from IDA throughout the
Project's life. Because NACO staff were not familiar with the methodology of preparing
reimbursement claims, training was required. Although training programs were organized,
frequent transfers and non-availability of staff impeded the process. NACO's filing of audit
certificates with the Bank was frequently hampered by State Audit delays. In June 1997, due to
audit delays largely involving Tamil Nadu, disbursements against SOEs were suspended, then re-
instated upon submission of the audits several months later. At the end of the project, audit
reports from four states and two UTs which were due on December 31, 1998 were still pending.
The comments in the audit reports relating to performance of the states have not been analyzed
systematically for improving performance related to utilization of funds.
32.   Covenant Compliance. Following initial delays, the Government of India ultimately
complied with all of the covenants in the Development Credit Agreement while the State
Governments complied with most of the obligations under their respective Letters of
Undertaking. However, there was a delay in compliance with the covenant which dealt with the
promulgation of regulations concerning quality standards of condoms. The legal authority for
such promulgation goes beyond the Ministry of Health. Another general issue was the fact that
the Bank suspended disbursements against SOEs for all states, even if only one state had failed
to meet audit requirements. This was later changed to suspend only against the state in default.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. A national program was developed
with a multi-pronged strategy and substantial capacity building. The program has been
institutionalized and is an integral part of the Union Government's development plans and
resource allocations. The project has been successful in achieving its stated objectives and often
exceeded the original plans. While program development and specific interventions can be
easily assessed, it is difficult to measure the ultimate objective concerning the actual slowing of
the spread of HIV. Sero-surveillance shows that the threat of HIV/AIDS will remain a major
issue, which in turn calls for enhanced responses.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
34.  In line with GOI's and IDA's continued focus on the control of key endemic diseases,
especially those closely associated with poverty, a Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
was appraised in December 1998 and approved by the Board in June 1999. The project will
pursue, complement, improve, and expand the preventive activities initiated under the first
project by assisting the GOI in enhancing HIV/AIDS interventions, particularly among
marginalized groups at high risk. It will also focus on developing and delivering cost-effective
interventions, while further promoting decentralization to the states and district levels.



- 12-
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   Key lessons learned from the Project relate to public health strategies, Govemment
policies and state commitment, institutional development, and the continuing challenge to
control the spread of BHIV in India.
Institutional:
*  When there is a new public health threat inadequately recognized by civil society, and
participatory approaches are limited, it is necessary for the central government to play a
leading role to initiate a national response.
*  Following the start-up phase, program implementation needs to be decentralized to states and
Municipal Corporations, to enable appropriate local responses, and to accommodate varying
epidemiological patterns, institutional capacities, and levels of commitment to the program.
This calls for devolution of service activities, combined with a strengthened leadership role
for the central level.
-  Advocacy and coordination among various sectors, including the private sector, need to be
developed. Given the magnitude of the problem and the scale of India's program, the
government should establish and strengthen its national and state level partnerships across
sectors with other ministries, NGOs, the private sector, activists and international donors.
Technical and Social:
*  It is necessary to adopt a multi-pronged approach in planning prioritized program
interventions, and the dissemination of public information to persons who are at risk,
including many married females.
*  Effective targeted interventions require high levels of coverage and saturation, and the
identification, reach and coverage of vulnerable risk behavior groups remains very
challenging.
*  The creation of an enabling environment, which includes policy adjustments, supportive
inputs and empowering of marginalized groups, is needed to facilitate behavior change.
Public relations efforts and careful program design are needed to minimize the stigma and
marginalization of highly vulnerable groups. Stigmatizing risk behavior persons leads them
further "underground" and is detrimental to program effectiveness. Targeted interventions to
such groups should be embedded in a broader national program.
*  Blood safety is most effectively addressed in the broader context of an improved blood
banking system rather than through HIV testing only.
*  The distribution of HIV/AIDS in India is not uniform. The epidemic is focused sharply in a
few states with most of India having low rates of infection. Unless this differential is taken



- 13 -
into account for planning interventions, efforts are likely to be inadequate in some areas and
inappropriate in others.
* Effective program management requires high quality, up-to-date epidemiological and
management information, and should be addressed by strengthening financial management
systems and surveillance. Also, project inputs require efficient, effective, and accountable
procurement and distribution.
Operational:
*  Variability of state performance within India needs to be addressed by advocacy, adopting
minimum standards for performance, national back-up and capacity building teams, and
widespread information, education and communication, all combined with incentive
structures for better performing States.
*  The development of a computerized Financial Management System (FMS) would alleviate
issues related to fund flow processes, financial and accounting policies and procedures,
budgeting and forecasting system, internal control mechanisms and auditing arrangements.
*  The use of Charted Accountant firms in auditing at the state level would alleviate lapses in
the submission of audit reports.
*  Monitoring activities should be an integral part of the routine functions of the program and
cannot be ad hoc activities linked solely to the Bank's supervision missions. This was
achieved during the latter years of the project.
*  The porous boundaries of the country and the major cross-border flows of various population
groups by land and sea require an enhanced regional approach to preventing the spread of
HIV/AIDS.



- 14-
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLE
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial    Partial      Ne2ligible   Not applicable
Macro Policies                 E   -               El    LI
Sector Policies                             El            El             El
Financial Objectives           El            E3            0       
Institutional Development                                  El             El
Physical Objectives                         El             E              El
Poverty Reduction              C            E3                            Lii
Gender Issues                  a                          El              El
Other Social Objectives        E            l3             0             E
Environmental Objectives       n             a             al
Public Sector Management       E            lg             E              El
Private Sector Development     E            lB             E              E
B. Proiect Sustainablitv        Likelv              Unlikely             Uncertain
(Continued)



- 15 -
Hinhlv
C. Bank Performance               Satisfactorv      Satisfactorv            Deficient
Identification                 E
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                       ]                                          E
Supervision                                         Q
D. Borrower Performance           Satisfactorv      Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                    n                                           El
Implementation
Covenant compliance            n3
Hi2hlv
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
I                                         E l



- 16-
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Credit Title                  Purpose                 Approval           Status
First Population    To support the family welfare program in  1972    Credit closed
Project             five districts of Mysore (now Karnataka)         06/30/80.
Cr. 312-IN          and six districts of Uttar Pradesh
PCR 6/81; PPAR 1/82
Second Population    To support the family welfare program in  1980    Credit closed 03/31/88
Project             six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three
Cr. 981-IN          districts of Andhra Pradesh                      PCR 1/90; PPAR 8/90
Tarnil Nadu         To improve the nutritional and health   1980    Credit closed
Integrated Nutrition   status of preschool children and pregnant     03/31/89.
Project I (TMNP)    and nursing women.
Cr. 1003-IN                                                          PCR 1/91; Impact
Evaluation report
12/94
Third Population    To support the family welfare program in  1984    Credit closed
Project             six districts of Karnataka and four              03/31/92.
Cr. 1426-IN         districts of Kerala.
PCR 8/93.
Fourth Population   To support the family welfare program in  1985    Credit closed
Project             four districts of West Bengal                    03/31/94.
Cr. 1623-IN
PCR 12/94.
Fifth (Bombay and    To reduce infant, child and maternal   1988    Credit closed
Madras) Population   morbidity and mortality and to moderate         03/31/96.
Project             fertility in the cities of Bombay, Madras
Cr. 1931-IN         and other urban areas of Tamil Nadu, and         ICR 10/96.
to assist the Municipal Authorities in
designing and implementing improved
health and family welfare programs.
Sixth (First National  To support the family welfare program in  1989    Credit closed
Family Welfare     the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra               05/31/97.
Training and Systems  Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh.
Development)                                                         ICR 2/98.
Population Project
Cr. 2057-IN
Tamil Nadu          To extend the successful TINP program   1990    Credit scheduled to
Integrated Nutrition   to all of Tamil Nadu' s 20,000 villages.      close 12/31/97.
Project II (TINP II)                                                 ICR 04/98
Cr. 2158-IN



- 17 -
Year of
Credit Title                  Purpose                 Approval           Status
Integrated Child    To improve the nutrition and health     1990    Credit scheduled to
Development         standards of pre-school children and             close 12/31/97.
Services Project I  mothers in tribal, drought-prone and
(ICDS I)            otherwise disadvantaged areas of Andhra          ICR 04/98
Cr. 2173-IN         Pradesh and Orissa.
Seven (Training)    To support lower-income women in the    1990    Credit scheduled to
Population Project    rural areas of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana,        close 06/30/98.
Cr. 2133-IN; Loan    Jannu, Kashmir and Punjab, through the
3199-IN             training of new and existing health              ICR 02/99
workers and non-Health Department
personnel.
Eighth (Family      To help the Government of India increase  1991   Credit scheduled to
Welfare Urban       the supply of family welfare services in         close 06/30/01.
Slums) Population    the slum populations of Andhra Pradesh.
Project             Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi.
Cr. 2394-IN
Child Survival and    To support the Government of India's  1992    Credit closed
Safe Motherhood     Maternal and Child Health Program.               09/30/95.
Project
Cr. 2300-IN                                                          ICR 03/97.
Integrated Child    To improve the nutrition and health status  1993    Credit scheduled to
Development         of preschool children and their mothers          close 09/30/00.
Services Project    by strengthening and increasing the
(ICDS II)           outreach of the ICDS program in Bihar
Cr. 2470-IN         and Madhya Pradesh.
Ninth (Family       To support the family welfare program in  1994    Credit scheduled to
Welfare - Assam,    the states of Assam, Karnataka and                close 12/31/01
Rajasthan and       Rajasthan.
Karnataka)
Population Project
Cr. 2630-IN
Andhra Pradesh First  To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation  1994    Credit scheduled to
Referral Health     and use of health resources through               close 03/31/02.
System Project      policy and institutional development; and
Cr. 2663-IN         (ii) improve system performance of health
care through improvements in quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health
services at the first referral or secondary
level to better serve the neediest sections
of society.



- 18 -
Year of
Credit Title                  Purpose                 Approval            Status
State Health Systems  To assist the Government of Karnataka,  1997    Credit scheduled to
II Project          Punjab and West Bengal to (i) improve             close 03/31/02.
Cr. 2833-IN         efficiency in the allocation and use of
health resources through policy and
institutional development; and (ii)
improve performance of the health care
system through improvements in the
quality, effectiveness and coverage of
health services at the first referral level
and selective coverage at the primary
level to better serve the neediest sections
of society.
Reproductive and    To assist the FWP to: (a) improve       1997      Credit scheduled to
Child Health        management performance by nationwide              close 03/31/03
Cr. N-018-IN        implementation of policy change referred
to as the "participatory planning
approach" and institutional strengthening;
(b) improve quality, coverage and
effectiveness of existing FW services and
progressively expand scope and content;
and (c) increase access while improving
quality in selected disadvantaged districts
and cities.
TB Control Project   To reduce mortality, morbidity and     1997      Credit scheduled to
Cr. 2936-IN         disability due to TB and to reduce the            close 12/31/02.
incidence of infectious TB by focusing on
the cure of infectious patients.
Malaria Control     To reduce death, morbidity and social and  1997   Credit scheduled to
Project Cr. 2964-N    economic losses from malaria through an         close 03/31/03.
improved malaria control program
including: (i) using a better mix of
effective malaria control interventions
responsible to local needs; and (ii)
strengthening the Directorate of the
National Malaria Program (NMP) and
modifying its orientation.
Orissa Health       To assist the Government of Orissa      1998      Credit scheduled to
Systems             (GOO) to: (i) improve efficiency in the           close 03/31/04
Cr. N-041-IN        allocation and use of health resources
through policy and institutional
development; and (ii) improve the
performance of the health care system
through improvements in the quality,



-19-
Year of
Credit Title                  Purpose                 Approval           Status
effectiveness and coverage of health
services at the first referral level and
selective coverage at the community level
to better serve the neediest sections of
society. The project would support other
health programs aimed at reducing infant
and maternal mortality rates, which are
especially high in Orissa.
Women & Child       To improve the nutritional and health of  1998   Credit scheduled to
Development Project  pre-school-aged children and women, by          close 09/30/03
Cr. N-042-IN        increasing the quality, impact, and cost-
effectiveness of the Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS) program in
the states of Kerala, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar
Pradesh. In addition, the project aims to
strengthen the ICDS program in the
remaining states and union territories by
improving the quality of work training in
each of them.
Maharashtra Health   To assist the Government of Maharashtra  1999   Credit scheduled to
Systems             (GOM) to (i) improve efficiency in the           close 03/31/04
Development Project  allocation and use of health resources
Cr. 3949-IN         through policy and institutional
development; and (ii) improve the
performance of the health care system
through systemic enhancements in the
quality, effectiveness and coverage of
health services at the first referral level
and selective coverage at the community
level.
Second National     To assist the Government of India (GOI)  1999    Credit scheduled to
EHV/AIDS Control   to (i) reduce the rate of growth of HIV            close 07/31/04
Project             infection in India; and (ii) strengthen
Cr. 3242-IN         India's capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS.



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned            latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                   08/30/91  (IEPS review)
Preparation
Appraisal                                10/17/91            10/16/91
Negotiations                                                02/19/92
Board presentation                       03/31/92           03/31/92
Signing                                                     04/24/92
Effectiveness                            09/91 *             09/21/92
Mid-term Review                          03/31/95            03/31/97
Project completion                       03/31/97            09/30/98
Credit closing                           09/30/97           03/31/99
*Dates obtained from MOP
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY93     FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98            FY99
Appraisal estimate      12.2      20.1      20.3     16.3     14.6      0.5       0.0
Formally Revised        9.14      5.69      7.13     9.39    20.39    16.88      15.51
Actual                  8.99      5.70      7.67     9.86    20.36    16.03      15.56
Actual as % of            74        28       38       60       139      -- ;
Estimate
Date of final                                                                September 7,
disbursement                                                                 1999
*Data obtained from the Integrated Controller's System.
*Due to rounding and the use of different exchange rates, figures may not fully match the disbursements record in GOI's report.



- 21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation
indicators in SAR/          Estimated                            Actual
President's Report         (SAR Target)                       (1998 status)
Institutional Development  The Project scope is   Nationwide capacity building in managerial and
in HIV/ AIDS            national but its initial focus  technical aspects of the program in all 32 states
management. Program     is on metropolitan cities.    and UTs. Public health program initiated with
Set-up and State                                  multi-sectoral involvement.
Involvement.
Increased knowledge     Through the services of   In selected major states, the awareness reached a
concerning the prevention  (a) NGOs to reach risk  range of 54-78% in urban areas and 13- 64% in
of HIV infection.       behavior groups;         rural areas. Multi-sectoral involvement in
(b) Television, radio and    promoting public awareness. Improved quality of
private sector agencies for   condoms through legislation raising the quality
mass media; (c) the existing  standards of condoms manufactured and sold in
health system infrastructure  India to conform with WHO recommended
and resources.           specifications. This also facilitated 50% increase
in the volume of condom distribution through
Social Marketing. 3.5 million students made
aware of HIV prevention through the Universities
Talk AIDS Program.
Increase condom use and   With capacity building in    Targeted interventions in vulnerable groups have
targeted interventions in    12 states and 100 NGOs.    been developed in most states with strong
risk groups.                                      performance in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu,
Gujarat, and Manipur. Increased condom use in
targeted risk groups from less than 10% to a range
of 50-90% in targeted groups of commercial sex
workers and capacity building of 150 NGOs.
Increased blood         Safer and more adequate    Screening of donated blood is almost universal.
transfusion safety.     blood supply. Increase    No unlicensed blood banks are functioning.
Phasing out professional   blood safety/screening from  Transfusion without license is illegal under the
Blood Donations.        30% to 90%. Develop HIV  present law. This has been attained in five years.
testing capabilities in 52  Banning and enforcement of rulings prohibiting
zonal centers to reach an    paid blood donations. This exceeded the original
aggregate of 118 zonal   target, which aimed at a reduction of 30%.
center and upgrade 90    At the end of project, 154 zonal blood testing
blood banks to an aggregate  center were set up and 815 public sector and
of 608 blood banks for HIV  voluntary blood banks were strengthened.
testing capabilities



- 22 -
Key implementation_
indicators in SAR/          Estimated                            Actual
President's Report         (SAR Target)                       (1998 status)
Enhanced technical skills.  Training workshops to train  10 Regional Training Centers were set up. 900
38 trainers, 168 high level   different categories of personnel have been
officials from the center    imparted training.
and the states/UT, and 130   Training proceeded according to plans but was
mid-level administrative  slower for nurses and counseling.
officers.
IEC in-service training for
health staff.
Increased capacity,     Improve and strengthen    504 STD clinics were strengthened. Improved
Effectiveness and quality  clinical services and case    effectiveness and quality of STD management.
of STD management.      management in 372 STD     The STD syndromic management approach
centers.                 developed beyond the initial project plan.
Surveillance network    Provide HIV testing       Surveillance capacity developed in 140 centers
capacity building in    capabilities to 100 sites  and 180 sentinel site nationwide.
permanent centers and   throughout the country.   The 1998 estimates of HIV sero-prevalence in the
sentinel sites.                                   adult population of India is about 0.9%. The
Provision of reliable                             cumulative rate for all BIV tests performed in the
information on the extent                         country, including both high and low risk groups,
of the spread of HIV in                           has shown a slow pattern of increase from 1% in
India.                                            1992 to 2.3% of tests in 1998.



- 23 -
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defmed at
Study             appraisal/redefined    Status           Impact of study
High Risk Behavior To obtain estimates on    Completed in 22  Used in developing
Study, May 1995    the number of persons    cities having a   targetted
practicing multi-partner   population of    intervention projects
sex and IV drugs       more than
500,000
Prevention        To assess the knowledge  Conducted in   Used in developing
Indicator Survey,    of the community on  rural and urban   EEC package
1996              prevention of HIV      areas in five
infection              states
Behavioral sentinel  To establish related  Completed      Used in framing IEC
surveillance in   benchmarks                              strategy
Tamil Nadu
An evaluation study  To assess the status of    Completed  Used in framing ELEC
on AIDS           awareness levels in                     strategy
Awareness;        selected districts
activities of the
directorate of Field
Publicity
Market research on  To provide inputs for  Completed and   Provided basic
condoms for use in  condom programming    report submitted  inputs for condom
the STDIAIDS                                              acceptance in
control program,                                          different groups of
July 1996                                                 users
Health-seeking    To collect baseline data   Completed    Provided suitable
behavior of women  on health-seeking                      modification for
in Sexually       behavior of women with                  STD prevention and
Transmitted       STD in the District of                  treatment to be
Diseases (STD),    Lucknow, to facilitate                 incorporated in the
May 1997          STD program to be                       Primary Health
tailored to the local                  Service to increase
situation                              accessibility and
availability for the
community



- 24 -
Purpose as defined at
Study              appraisal/redefined     Status          Impact of study
Study on           Syndromic approach in    Completed      Study indicated
Integration of STD   management of RTIISTI                  significant increase
syndromic          by MIS working at PHC                   in the number of
management into   level                                     STD patients having
PHC system, June                                           completed
1997                                                       successful treatment,
and confidence
generated among the
health care
providers. The
syndromic
management of
STDs should be
incorporated into the
regular curriculum
of undergraduate
students.
Evaluation of      Assessment of utility of   Dropped
syndromic          syndromic management
management of      at PHC level
STD under PHC
care system,
November 1997
Innovative STD     To assess the treatment-   The final report   Not yet known
intervention study   seeking behavior of STD   is awaited
in a rural area of    patients in rural areas
Uttar Pradesh,
November 1997



- 25 -
Table 7A.: Project Cost by Component
Appraisal Estimate (US$ '000)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ '000)
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Components             Cost      Cost       Total       Cost       Cost       Total
Strengthening Program          5,931.2   1,790.9      7,722.1    8,068.3    2,435.9    10,504.2
Management Capacity
Promoting Public Awareness and    29,070.1   2,065.5    31,135.6   22,209.3  1577.0    23,786.3
Community Support
Improving Blood Safety and     13,554.3  21,097.8    34,652.1   17,610.4   27,405.9    45,016.3
Rational Use
Controlling Sexually Transmitted    4,590.6   6,664.2    11,554.8    7,891.2   10,750.8    18,642.0
Diseases
Building Surveillance and      12,060.6   2,459.3    14,519.9   12,775.7    2,603.8    15,379.5
Clinical Management Capacity
Total                         65,506.8  34,077.9    99,584.5   68,554.9   44,773.4   113,328.3



- 26 -
Table 7B.: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
Project Element                     A praisal Estimate (US$ Million)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ Million)
ICB    NCB    Other  NBF I/  Total   ICB    NCB    Other [NBFl/   Total
Civil works                               0.3                      0.3                    0.11               0.11
(0.3)                   (0.3)                  (0.10)             (0.10) 
Goods                            7.7      8.0    34.2            49.9   26.38   10.36   38.63              75.37
(6.9)   (7.2)  (30.8)           (44.9)  (26.38)  (6.97)  (23.86)          (57.21)
Local Training and workshops                     16.8             16.8                    5.33               5.33
(13.0)          (13.0)                  (4.44)             (4.44)
NGO Services                                      8.3              8.3                    1.78               1.78
(6.5)           (6.5)                  (1.68)             (1.68)
Local Consultants and Studies                     7.6              7.6                    0.12              0.12
(6.8)           (6.8)                  (0.10)             (0.10)
Foreign Consultants                                        1.5    15.0                            2.19       2.19
(0.0)   (0.0)                           (0.0)     (0.0)
Publicity Services                                7.7              7.7                   22.84             22.84
(6.9)           (6.9)                 (15.05)            (15.05)
Miscellaneous (Incremental                        5.9              5.9                    4.17               4.17
Salaries                                         (4.4)           (4.4)                  (4.21)             (4.21)
Incremental Operation Costs                       1.6              1.6                    1.42               1.42
_(1.2) .(1.2)                           (I. 19)             1.19
Total                            7.7      8.3    82.1     1.5    99.6   26.38   10.36   74.40    2.19    113.33
(6.9)   (7.5)  (69.6)   (0.0)  (84.0)  (26.38)  (6.97)  (50.63)   (0.0)   (84.18)
1/ WHO parallel funding
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit



- 27-
Table 7C: Project Financing by Component
Appraisal.estimate         Actual/latest estimate
(US$'000)                    (US$'000)
COMPONENTS             IDA   WHO  GOVT  IDA   WHO   GOVT
Strengthening Program       5,990.7   565.0   1,166.4   4,414.5   843.5   5,246.3
Management Capacity
Promoting Public Awareness    26,105.4   281.6  4,748.7   16,954.8   420.3    6,411.2
and Community Support
Improving Blood Safety and  30,297.3   113.0  4,241.7  39,140.6   168.7   5,707.0
Rational Use
Controlling Sexually       10,040.4   282.5   1,231.8  14,338.1   421.6    3882.3
Transmitted Diseases
Building Surveillance and  11,748.4   226.0   2,545.4   8,801.4   337.3   6,240.8
Clinical Management Capacity
Total                      84,182.2  1,460.2  13,934.1  83,649.4  2,191.4  27,487.50



- 28-
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benerits
A. AIDS Cases and Costs with and without the Project
This table is presented for illustrative purposes only because the benefilts cannot be attributed solely to project interventions and
because of other epidemiological factors, including the unreliability of initial projections of AIDS cases at appraisal in 1992.
PROJECTIONS AT APPRAISAL                                          AT PROJECT COMPLETION
WITHOUT THE PROJECT                WITH THE PROJECT
AIDS Cases to be Prevented & Savings          AIDS Cases Prevented & Savings Under the Project
AIDS 1/   Total    @30%    Expected Savings in Direct Costs Reported Correction   Cases Prevented   Savings in Direct Costs use
Incidence  Direct   Effective    at 30% Prevention Scenario    AIDS 3/  for Uner- using 30% preven- 30% effeciveness as baseline
Persons   Costs  Prevention          (US$m)2/              Cases  reporting 5/  tion as basline         (US$m)' 
Year    (p00)  (US$m)   Scenario    Govt.    Private   Total       (Q00)      ('000)       (00O)       Govt.  Private   Total
1993/94      7.0      7.8        3.0      1.8       0.5       2.3   0.37          2.95        0%             0.0     0.0      0.0
1994/95     16.0    19.1         5.0      4.6       1.1       5.7   0.36          2.86       43%            2.0      0.5      2.4
1995/96     32.0    41.4        10.0      9.9       2.5      12.4   1.09          8.73       13%             1.3    0.3       1.6
1996/97     62.0    86.5        19.0    20.6        5.4      26.0   1.05          8.42       56%            11.5     3.0     14.5
1997/98    125.0    188.4       37.0    44.9       11.6      56.5   2.02         16.16       56%           25.3      6.5     31.8
1998/99    250.0   407.0        75.0    97.0      25.1      122.1   4.04  4/    32.32        57%           55.2    14.3      69.5
1999/00    500.0    879.2      150.0   209.6       54.2     263.8   8.08  4i    64.64        57%           119.3    30.8    150.1
Total     992.0  1,629.5      299.0   388.4    100.4       488.8   16.6        136.09       86%          214.5    55.5    269.9
1/ World Health Organization/Global Program on AIDS estimates of projected AIDS cases are based on the 1991/1992 underlying prevalence
of 200,000 HIV carriers in risk behavior groups and 200,000 persons in the general population.
2/ Total direct cost per case in 1992 = US$950.0 increasing at 8% yearly.
3/ Source: Country Scenario 1997-98, National AIDS Control Organization, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.
4/ Since data for years 1999 and 2000 is not available, a yearly doubling in the number of cases is assumed for these two years.
5/ Correction of eight fold under-reporting is made in order to compensate for unreported cases under various scenarios.



- 29-
Table 8: Econonic Costs and Benefits
B. Analysis of Return on Investment (1992-2000) in the National AIDS Control Project
This table is presented for illustrative purposes only because the benefits cannot be attributed solely to project interventions and because of
other epidemiological factors, including the unreliability of initial projections of AIDS cases at appraisal in 1992.
DIRECT COST TO BOTH GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR
1992     1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
Investment (US$m)
Total Investment (Estimates at Appraisal)                 -        23.8      19.1     20.4      18.2     18.0       -        -         -
Total Investment (at Completion) 1/                                 6.6       7.3      9.8      11.9     25.5      27.4     24.7       -
# of AIDS Cases ('000)
@ 30% of effective prevention (Estimates at Appraisal)    NA       NA        3.0       5.0      10.0     19.0      37.0     75.0    150.0
Reported cases at Completion                              NA       NA         0.4      0.4       1.1       1.1      2.0      4.0       8.1
Correction for Under-reporting v/                         NA       NA         3.0      2.9       8.7       8.4     16.2     32.3      64.6
# of AIDS Cases Prevented at Completion (use 30%
effective prevention as baseline)                          NA        NA        -        2.1       1.3      10.6     20.8     42.7      85.4
Direct Costs 3/ (Estimates at Appraisal)
A. Unit Cost Per Illness Treatment (US$) _/              200.0    216.0    233.3    251.9    272.1    293.9    317.4    342.8    370.2
B. Unit Cost per day of Hospital Cost 5/                 750.0    810.0    874.8    944.8  1,020.4  1,102.0  1,190.2  1,285.4  1,388.2
Total Cost Per Case (US$)                                950.0  1,026.0  1,108.1  1,196.7  1,292.5  1,395.9  1,507.6  1,628.2  1,758.4
Total Cost Avoided (US$m) (at Completion)6/                 NA       NA        -        2.6       1.6      14.8     31.4     69.5    150.1
Net Benefit (cost avoided - investment)                     NA      (6.6)     (7.3)    (7.2)   (10.3)   (10.7)       4.0     44.8    150.1
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) I/                          39%_
1/ Investment costs is based on actual project expenditure.
2/ Correction of under-reporting is made in order to compensate for unreported cases under various scenarios (see Table 9A).
3/ The direct cost relates to the expenses of medical treatment and hospital stay of patients with AIDS.
4/ It is assumed that each AIDS case is associated with 30 related illnesses, of which 20 will incur medical care expenses at
US$10 per illness at 1992 prices, increasing at 8% every year.
5/ It is assumed that every patient with AIDS requires 250 days of care, of which only 10% (25 days) would involve hospital care at US$30/day
6/ The total cost avoided is the product of total unit cost per case and total number of cases prevented.
7/ This ex-post internal rate of return (IRR) calculation uses the actual cost data from 1992-2000 for the project.



- 30-
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan/                                                Original    Revised
Credit                        Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement        Section          Type      Status      Date         Date                  Description of Covenant                   Comments
Cr. 2350    Sched. 4 Para. 2        5         CD      06/01/1992               The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a  National Authority
National AIDS Control Authority, with adequate full-  substituted by National
time staff and other resources and terms of reference    Organization
satisfactory to the Association
Article VI Section      5        CD      06/01/1992               Re. Para. 2 of Schedule 4: designated staff shall have
6.01(a)                                                           been appointed and assumed office.
Article VI Section      4        CD      06/01/1992               All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
6.01(b)                                                           WHO Grant Agreement have been fulfilled.
Article III Section    12        CD      05/01/1993               The Borrower shall promulgate and thereafter
3.04                                                              maintain and enforce regulation requiring that
condoms manufactured or sold in India conform at
least to minimum quality specifications established by
WHO.
Schedule 4 para. 3     10         C      10/31/1992               The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1992, establish
and thereafter maintain a Technical Advisory Sub-
Committee on Social, Ethical and Legal Issues with
terms of reference which shall be issued by the
Borrower in consultation with the Association.
Schedule 4 para. 4      5         C                               Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Project States and Project Union
Territories to establish by dates agreed with the
Association, and thereafter maintain, AIDS Control
Cells in their respective Departments of Health with
appropriate staff and resources, for planning,
coordinating, implementing and monitoring
implementation of the Project.



- 31-
Loan/                                                Original     Revised
Credit                         Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement         Section          Type      Status      Date         Date                  Description of Covenant                     Comments
Schedule 4 para. 6      10        C                                Without limitation to Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall review with the
Association annually by December 31 of each year
the progress of Project implementation over the
preceding twelve months and an annual work plan for
Project implementation for the next following twelve
months.
Schedule 4 para. 7      10        C       03/31/1995               The Borrower shall carry out with the Association a
mid-term review of Project Implementation prior to
March 31, 1995 and shall, thereafter, during Project
implementation, take into account comments and
suggestions made by the Association at such a review.
Schedule 4 para. 1      10        C       06/30/1995               The Borrower shall develop, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and provide to the
Association a strategic plan for the next phase of the
Borrower's program for the control of HIV and AIDS.
Article III Section     10        CD                               The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State
3.03                                                               or Project Union Territory to carry out its portion of
the Project, in accordance with a Letter of
Undertaking issued by such Project State or Project
Union Territory to the Borrower and the Association
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Covenant Type:
1       =       Accounts/audit                                              8       =        Indigenous people
2       =       Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries   9       =        Monitoring, review and reporting
3       =       Flow and utilization of project funds                       10      =        Implementation
4       =       Counterpart funding                                         11      =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary of other resource
5       =       Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency                 allocation
6       =       Environmental covenants                                     12      =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
7       =        Involuntary resettlement                                   13      =        Other.
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with



- 32-
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
No lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual/Statement (OD or OP/BP)
was noted except in the case of OD10.60 (OP/BP 10.02), which concerns project financial
management. Due to audit delays involving a few States and Union Territories, the disbursement
against SOEs had been suspended and re-instated upon submission of the required audit. With the
introduction of LACI in the follow-up project, more attention is being paid to financial
management.



- 33 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned                      Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks      US$        Staff Weeks       US$
('000)                      ('000)
Preparation to appraisal                     -            18.6          59.1
Appraisal                                                 44.7          132.2
Negotiation through Board      -             -            12.3          36.2
approval
Supervision*                                             134.8         422.8
Completion*                  18.0          68.0           4.0           18.2
TOTAL                       18.0          68.0          214.4         668.5
*hdormation available from FACT only for FY96-FY98.



- 34-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating 2/
Number                  Specialized      Implement-
Stage of       Month/       Of        Days in      Staff skills       ation       Development    Types ofl
Project cycle     Year      Persons      Field     Represented 1/       Status       Objectives     Problems
Preparation                                         TM,SPHS,P,         SINGYUANn/          N/a
Through Appraisal                                                            a
Appraisal through    10/91                   40                             n/a            N/a
Board Approval                                                                                               _
Board Approval       03/92                                                  n/a            N/a
through
Effectiveness        09/92
Supervision 1        08/92        3          12     TM,SPHS,P,PHS            2              1
Supervision 2        08/93        9          14     TM,SPHS,P                1              1
________  ________SS,PHS,AC
Supervision 3        08/94        7          14     TM,SPHS,P                S              S
____ ___ ____ ___   ___ ___ SS,PHS,AC_        _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _
Supervision 4        06/95        1           0     TM                       S              S
Supervision 5        12/95        7          35     TM,SPHS,P,               S              S
SS,PPHS,HE,
_______         ~LEG,AC_               _  _  _  _
Supervision 6        05/96        1           0     TM   I                   S              S
Supervision 7        11/96        1          24      TM/PHS                  S              S
Supervision 8        06/97        1           0      TM                      S              S            3/
Supervision 9        01/98        4          11      TM,PPHS,P,              S              S
__________   ________  SS,PHS                                                      l
Supervision 10       05/98        1           0      TM                     HS              S
Supervision 11       08/98        1          17     TM,PPHS,P,              HS              S
SS,PHS                                                    _
Supervision 12 and   02/99        5          12     TM,PPHS,P,              HS              S
Implementation                                      FMS,OA,AA
Completion Report                                     _              _
1/ Key to Specialized Staff skills: TM=Task Manager; SS=Social Scientist; SPHS=Sr. Public Health Specialist; PPHS=Principal Public
Health Specialist; PHS=Public Health Specialist; P=Procurement Specialist; AC=AIDS Coordinator; HE= Health Economist; FMS=Financial
Management Specialist; OA=Operations Analyst; AA=Administrative Assistant
2/ The earlier performance ratings were based on a numbered system.
3/ Due to audit delays largely involving Tamil Nadu, Disbursements against SOEs were suspended on June 5, 1997.



- 35 -
Appendix A
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
(CR. 2350-IN)
International Development Association Review and Implementation Completion Mission
February 15-27,1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.   A mission for the review and implementation completion of the National AIDS Control
Project (Cr. 2350-IN) was undertaken in collaboration with the National AIDS Control
Organization (NACO) during the period February 15-27, 1999. The mission held discussions
with Government officials headed by Mrs. Shailaja Chandra, Additional Secretary, Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare. The working sessions with NACO officials were coordinated by
Dr. P. L. Joshi, Deputy Director, NACO. The IDA team included Messrs./Mmes. S. Habayeb,
L. Kiang, V. Mendoza, R. Narula, and M. Chand. The mission would like to thank the
Government officials for their cooperation and gracious hospitality.
1. SUMMARY OF MAIN FINDINGS
2.   Credit Background, Closing Date and Utilization of Proceeds. The Project was
approved by the World Bank Board on March 31, 1992 for a Credit of SDR 59.8 million
(US$84.0 million equivalent). The project was a centrally sponsored scheme financed by the
Union Government. The Beneficiaries were 32 States and Union Territories of India. The
Project became effective on April 21, 1992 and is currently scheduled to close on March 31,
1999, after an extension of 18 months. The technical assistance of US$1.5 million cofinanced in
parallel by the World Health Organization was fully utilized and attained US$1.7 million
equivalent. As of February 4, 1999, the IDA disbursement status was 95% of the original
principal amount. But with the withdrawal applications currently in the pipeline, most of the
proceeds of the credit are expected to be utilized.
3.   Country and Sector Context. This was the first project in India to develop a national
public health program in HIV/AIDS control. It was initiated by the Union Government as a start-
up investment to launch expanded preventive activities. The initial challenges faced by the Union
and State Governments were immense and ranged from limited capacities in various sectors to
denial and mixed commitment in many states in the early 1990s. However, the scope of the
project varied with each intervention, taking into account the need, absorptive capacity, feasibility
and efficiency (SAR para. 2.04).
4.   Conclusions on Development Objectives and Overview of Implementation
Performance. The summary findings concerning the objectives and implementation are
discussed below:



-36 -
Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
General Objectives and Main
Purpose of the Project:                      Results & Outcomes
The main purpose of the project was  *  This objective has been achieved. A national program with
to initiate a start-up investment to  a multi-pronged strategy and substantial capacity building
launch preventive activities in     was developed. The program has been institutionalized and
HIV/AIDS.                          is an integral part of the Union Government's development
plans and resource allocations. While the program
management bodies are incremental, the program itself is
largely integrated and builds upon existing human and
physical resources within the health sector and other sectors.
Following the midterm review, the program became
performance-based providing budgets to the states in
accordance with their financial performance in the program.
In summary, the Center and the major project targeted
epicenters of Mumbai and Chennai showed high
performance. A third of the states performed satisfactorily
overall; another third showed intermediate performance; and
in a third group of states, a low performance was witnessed.
The ultimate objective of the project  Surveillance evidence shows the following:
was to slow the spread of HIV in  *  No State or Union Territory has a generalized epidemic at
India so as to reduce future        present.
morbidity, mortality and impact of    *  Concentrated epidemic - I (1-5%) 11 in Maharashtra,
AIDS.                              Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu & Manipur.
*  Concentrated epidemic - II (< 1%) ' in Gujarat, West
Bengal & Nagaland
*  Low level epidemic 2' in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan, Orissa, Assam, Kerala, Meghalaya, Sikkim,
Arunachal Pradesh.
Current estimates of HIV sero-prevalence in the adult population
of India is about 0.9%. The cumulative rate for all HIV tests
performed in the country, including both high and low risk
groups, has shown a slow pattern of increase from 1% in 1992 to
2.3% of tests in 1998. Although the infection rate in the general
population has been increasing slowly, the rates have shown a
rapid rise in core groups. Surveillance shows that the threat of
HIV/AIDS will remain a major issue calling for enhanced
responses.
1/ ANC HIV prevalence.
2/ STD/HRG HIV prevalence of less than 5%
and negligible ANC HIV prevalence.



- 37 -
Appendix A
Page 3 of 7
Specific
Objectives           Main Activities and Outputs                  Results & Outcomes
1. Involve all   *  National AIDS Control Organization       *  Nationwide capacity building in
States and Union     (NACO) set up.                             managerial and technical aspects of
Territories in   *  32 States AIDS Cells created in all States  the program. The coordinating
developing           and Union Territories.                     organization developed.
HIV/AIDS         *  National AIDS Control Board formed.      *  Public health program initiated with
preventive       *  Technical Sub-committees formed.            multi-sectoral involvement.
activities with a    *  Strategic plan developed.            *  Based on project implementation, the
special focus on    *  Empowered Committees constituted.        states are categorized as follows:
the major        *  Managerial and Technical Skills developed.   * Good performance: Maharashtra,
epicenters of the   *  Implementation of activities largely building  Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry,
epidemic             on existing human resources.                   Manipur, Chandigarh, Gujarat,
Goa, and Kerala.
* Intermediate performance: Uttar
Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Rajashthan, Assam,
West Bengal and Punjab.
* Low performance: Delhi, Madhya
Pradesh, Haryana, Orissa, Bihar,
Jammu & Kashmir, North
Eastern States other than
Manipur, and other Union
Territories.
2. Attain a      *  A six-pronged EEC strategy promoting public  *  Increased knowledge concerning the
satisfactory level   awareness and community support, including  prevention of HIV infection in
of public            mass media, advocacy, inter-sectoral        selected major states reaching a
awareness on HIV     collaboration, NGOs, training, operational  range of 54-78% in urban areas and
transmission and     research.                                   13- 64% in rural areas.
prevention       *  Information, education and communication    *  Improved quality of condoms
through electronic media, television, radio  through legislation amending
and newspapers, print media, AIDS          Schedule R of the Drugs and
telephone help-line, private radio channels,  Cosmetics Act raising the quality
entertainment celebrities, local artists,  standards of condoms manufactured
informal methods of education, and folklore.  and sold in India to conform with
*  "Universities Talk AIDS" program involving  WHO-recommended specifications.
3.5 million students in 4,044 institutions in    *  50% increase in the volume of
the country.                               condom distribution through Social
*  A training package of "AIDS Education in    Marketing.
School" developed aiming 17 states.    *  Multi sectoral involvement including
*  High Risk Behavior studies in selected cities.  Department of Youth Affairs,
*  Training health staff, social workers, and  Information & Broadcasting,
personnel of various sectors.              Industry and Corporate Groups,
Tourism, Human Resource
Development, Coal & Mines,
Labour, Educational Research and
Training, Social Justice and
Employment, Indian Council of
Medical Research and Women
Affairs.



- 38 -
Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
Specific
Objectives           Main Activities and Outputs                Results & Outcomes
3. Develop health  *  Targeted health promotion interventions in    *  Reduction in risk behavior and
promotion           vulnerable core groups, including condom   increased condom use in targeted
interventions       use and social marketing, with NGOs playing  groups from less than 10% to a range
among risk          a major role.                              of 50-90% in targeted groups of
behavior groups    *  Targeted interventions developed in most  commercial sex workers.
states. Strong NGO performance in      *  Capacity building of 150 NGOs. The
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and     interventions exceeded the original
Manipur.                                  target involving 12 states and 100
*  Most interventions involved interpersonal  NGOs.
communication and innovative approaches.
Targeted groups included commercial sex
workers and their clients, IV drug users, STD
patients, migrant workers, and truck drivers.
4. Screen the    *  Improving blood safety and rational use  *  Increased blood safety from 30% in
majority of blood   mainly through capacity building in blood  1992 to virtual universal coverage at
units collected for  banks, component separation, training,    present exceeding the original target
blood transfusions  certification of FDA inspectors, and       of 90%. However, it cannot be ruled
enhanced monitoring.                      out that there are instances where
*  Mandating HIV screening for all blood      untested blood transfusions may
transfusions.                             occur in urgent situations, notably in
*  Licensing of blood banks involving 1,352   remote areas.
banks.                                 *  Consumer protection through special
*  Modernization of 815 blood banks.         legislation and enforcement of.
*  154 zonal blood testing centers set up.    Supreme Court rulings on blood
*  Testing of all blood units for HIV, Hepatitis  banks, blood donations, and HIV
B, Malaria and syphilis.                  testing.
*  Increased use of rapid HIV test.       *  Closing of unlicensed blood banks.
* 40 component separation facilities.
* Training and manpower development in
blood banking.
5. Decrease the    *  Promotion of voluntary blood donations  *  Supreme Court legislation on January
practice of         through public awareness, motivation, and  1, 1998 and enforcement of rulings
professional blood  NGO assistance.                            prohibiting paid blood donations.
donations        *  Rejection of paid professional blood       This exceeded the original target
donations.                                which aimed at a reduction of 30%.
However, it cannot be ruled out that
there are instances when paid
donations occur disguised as
replacement donations.



-39 -
Appendix A
Page 5 of 7
Specific
Objectives            Main Activities and Outputs                  Results & Outcomes
6. Develop skills   *  Clinical management, including        *  Enhanced skills. Training exceeded
in clinical          encouragement of home-based care, has been  original targets.
management,          taken up as an integral component in the
health education     National AIDS Prevention and Control
and counseling,      Policy.
and psycho-social  *  Training for various categories of personnel.
support to HEIV
sero-positive
persons, AIDS
patients and their
associates
7. Initiate the  *  504 STD clinics upgraded to function as   *  Increased capacity for the prevention
strengthening of     referral points to primary health care      of HIV/STD transmission.
STD control in       facilities. This exceeded the original target    *  Improved effectiveness and quality
STD clinics          of 372 clinics.                             of STD management.
*  Syndromic management approach for STD
introduced beyond initial project plans.
*  About 19,000 medical officers trained in
STD syndromic case management. Also,
more than 10,000 private health care
providers trained by the Indian Medical
Association.
*  All districts provided with facilities for
management of STD control.
*  5 regional STD referral centers upgraded to
conduct training, research, supervision and
monitoring.
8. Monitor the   *  Sentinel surveillance system and protocol  *  Reliable information on the extent of
development of       introduced in 180 sentinel sites nationwide,  HIV spread in India.
the HIV/AIDS         both in urban and rural areas.           *  Nationwide, it is estimated that there
epidemic in the  *  Capacity building in HIV sero-surveillance   are 4-5 million HIV sero-positive
country.             in 131 centers and 9 referral centers.      persons. The variable level of spread
in the states is shown above. Also,
surveillance has shown that one in
every four cases reported is a female,
and that about 89% of the reported
cases are from sexually active and
economically productive age groups
of 15-49 years. The majority of
infections occur through heterosexual
transmission.



- 40 -
Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
5.   Borrower and Bank Performances. It was agreed that such views will be discussed in
the Borrower's Evaluation Report and the Bank's ICR.
6.   Technical and Financial Sustainability, and Future Plan of Operations.
Prospects for sustainability are good and have improved over time. The amount of
capacity building developed under the project has been substantial and will contribute to
enhancing sustainability. The project has developed a multi-pronged program, which has
been institutionalized within the sector.
7.   Since the project's interventions are largely preventive so far, the recurrent costs
generated are a negligible part of the Union and State expenditures on health at present.
Furthermore, the Union Government has decided to continue its central financing of the
national program because of the importance of HIV/AIDS as a national issue. This
decision concerning central sponsorship would allow states with financial constraints to
develop their responses to HIV.
8.   At the central level, it is evident that NACO had established itself by the end of the
project as the leader in coordinating India's response to HIV/AIDS. NACO's effective
performance has been further demonstrated by: its successful leadership of the first
nationwide HtV sentinel surveillance in 1998; judicious responses to the contrasting
needs of the states; important initiatives it has taken in liaising with other public and
private sectors; and its increasingly effective role in coordinating the activities of a large
number of participants and external donors. Sustainability at the individual state level
varies. Prospects for sustainability are best in states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu
(where the epidemnic is visible) as evidenced by the wide range and high quality of
operational activities, research, and policy, that are now being undertaken in those states.
Prospects for sustainability in other states with low responses are less certain, although in
those cases, the prevalence level is currently lower than elsewhere, and further support
and attention will be enhanced during the next phase of action.
9.   The Proposed Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project has already been
appraised. While it would continue the basic core activities developed under the first
project, it would expand the national response and the role of the states while further
decentralizing the program.
10.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The ICR contents and schedule were
discussed and agreed with NACO. The ICR will be prepared by the Bank within six months from
the date of closing of the Project. The Report will assess the achievement of development
objectives and glean important lessons learnt during the process of implementation, including
factors facilitating or impeding timely and full implementation. The ICR will contain a brief
assessment of the implementation experience by GOI. Agreed benchmarks for ICR preparation
are noted in the agreed actions.
11.  Outstanding Issues. There are no major pending implementation issues at present.
However, the Project and SOE audit accounts for FY97-98 are now overdue. A letter has been
issued to NACO concerning this matter for its immediate attention and action.



- 41 -
Appendix A
Page 7 of 7
H. SUMMARY OF NEXT STEPS AND AGREED ACTIONS
Actions                                 By When        By Whom
Withdrawal applications for eligible expenditures incurred up  July 31, 1999    NACO
to March 31, 1999 to be transmitted to IDA by July 31, 1999
(The Credit Closing Date is March 31, 1999. It is followed by
a grace period of four months during which reimbursement
would be maintained for eligible expenditures actually
incurred before March 31, 1999)
Complete Project and SOE Audit Accounts for FY97-98             Overdue         NACO
which are overdue
NACO to continue to collaborate with IDA in the preparation  July 31, 1999      NACO
of the ICR notably by providing the required information
concerning the Project
NACO to finalize the preparation of its own Evaluation of the  May 15, 1999     NACO
Project. A summary not exceeding 10 pages to be transmitted
to IDA for inclusion as an Annex to the ICR
The draft ICR to be sent to GOI for comments               May 30, 1999     World Bank
NACO to send comments on the ICR draft to the Bank         June 30, 1999        NACO
Final ICR to be issued by the World Bank              September 31, 1999    World Bank
Project and SOE Audit Accounts for FY98-99             December 31, 1999        NACO
Project and SOE Audit Accounts for payments made after  December 31, 2000       NACO
March 31, 1999, against commitments entered into before
March 31, 1999



- 42 -
Appendix B
Page 1 of 9
mY 31 '99  10:a2&  WORLD B   N DELHI                  D.O. No. T-11021.6I9S-NAGO
Tels.OffMc: 30'6713 (0)
4673731 C)
1w                                                          Fax        :3793320
Gram        HEALTHIND
Government of India.
Minihry of H.alth & FumilyWelfer
DR. P. L. JOSHI                                         National AIDS Contro Ofgani.atio6a
JOINT-DIRECOR                             '4w           Room No. 523,'A' Wing, 
NirmanBhawan           i
New Delhi-IO 011         I
Dated the 26th Mav, 1919.
Dear Dr. Limn,
Sub.: National AIDS Control Programne (Cr. 2350-IN)
Kindly refer to your letter dt. Sth March, 1999 regarding  IDA
Mission  which  visited  India  during  February,  1999  to  review  tbe
implementatton, corpletion  and  tattus  of  the  NACP, Phbse-1.   AB
des.ired, a summary of GOt'a evaluation of the Project for inclusaio
in the IDA's Implementation Completion Report is enclosed.
I hope the draft of the  IDA-Is ICR  would  be sent to  us for
comments soon.
Yours sincereLy,
Shri 9dwin,R. Lim,
Country Director,World Bank(India),
New Delhi Office,
70, L;odi atat8~
Now Delhi-110
~~ tC:    os ct6



- 43 -
Appendix B
Page 2 of 9
MAY 31 '99  10:Z7AM WORLD BPNK N DELHI                                       P.3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREVNTION AND CONTROL OF AIDS IN INDIA
(Credit No. 2390-IN)
In 1992 Government of Indla negotiated an IDA Credit of US$ 84 million to
support a fullfledged National AIDS Control Project for a 5 years period  from
September, 1992 it September, 1997. EFC approval was obtained for Rs.222.6 cores
for AIDS Control and subsequently Rs.45.2 crores for Blood Safety as parts of this
Project. Due to slow utllsaton of funds in the first two years of the Project, it was
extended to Martch, 1999,
Objectves of the Prolect:
The objectives of the Project were:*
I)   to slow the spread of HIV;
ii)   to decrease morbidity and mortality associated with HIV infection; and
lii)   to minimise gpcio-economic impact resultng from HIV infection.
The project consists of the following components:-
i)    strengthening of management capadty for preventon and control of HIV/AIDS;
*,)   improving public awarenessthrough rEC programme;
iii)   imprving blood safety and rational use of blood;
lv)    building surveillance and dinical management capacity; and
v)    controlling sexually transmitted diseases.
A Nadonal AIDS Control Organisation was set up wth a Project Director In the
rank of Additonal Secretary to Govemment of India and supportng technical staff.
Adequaie financial and administrative powers were delegated to make the Project
Director effective in implementng the Programme Strategy, A National AIDS Control
Board was set up under the Chairmanship of Secretary(Health) to review NACO policies,
to expedite sanctions and approve procurement of supplies and award contracts to
Private Agencies. A National AIDS Committee was constituted under the Chairmanship
of the Minister of Health and Family Welfare to bring in various Ministries, non-
Governmental Organisatons and private instittons for effective coordination in
implemenUng the programme. State AIDS Cells were established In the 25 States and 7
Union Territories for implementng the approved Scheme. The State AIDS Cells were
headed by a senior 4octor in the rank of Project Director/Joint Director ftm State
Health Services. Adequate technical and administrative manpower was provided to the
State AIDS Cells for the Implementation of the Schemes.
An amount of Rs. 280 crores was allotbed In the 8i Five Year Plan for prevention
and control of HIV/AIDS In India. This consisted of Rs. 222.6 crores for AIDS Prevendon
and Control, Rs. 45.22 acores for Blood Safety and Rs. 28,92 crores as 1iateral,
assistance from USAID for the Implementing of the AIDS Prevention and Control Project



- 44 -
Appendix B
Page 3 of 9
MPY 31 '99  1:27  WD         N    I                                        P.4
in Tamilnadu. The expenditure for the first two years was below the projecdons In the
Staff Appraisal Report But from 199495 the programme picked up momentum and
utilisation of funds was higher than the Budget Estimates and the SAR target. In 1996-
97, the last year of the 8 Plan, an amount of Rs. 114.14 crores was spent as against
the SAR target of Rs. 39.12 crores. The expenditure in the first and second year of the
9t' Plan was Rs. 123.01 crores and Rs. 110 crores respectively. Annexure I gives details
of the Cost by Components.
Achievements:
The AIDS Control Project has some singular achievements In the following
areas:-
i)    A sdentific case reportng organLaton was set up with 65 Sero-Surveillance
Centres spread through out the country. Government could get regular reporting
on the number-of HN infections and full blown AIDS cases statewise through the
Sero-Survelliance network. A sentnel surveillance was introduced to rnonitor the
trend of the epidehic with 55 Sentinel Sites in 1993..The number of stes were
increased to480 in 1998 and regular National Senfinel Suvey has been done in
two rounds,bnce In February - March, 1998 and again in August - September,.
1998 gving invaluable data about prev4lence of HIV/AIDS among the High Risk
Groups as well as the general population;
ii    Prevention of Sexually TransmItted Dlseases whose prevalence has a direct
bearing on HIV transmission was taken up as a priority acivity. 372 exIstng SID
Clinics were upgraded and 132 new dinics were started to function as referral
centres. Five Reglonal STD Centres were upgraded to conduct training, research,
supervision and monitoring. 18,588 medical officers ftrom Government Health
care system and 10,000 private health care physidans were trained in SlD case
management. The guidelines for syndromic management and breatment of STD
were revised and updated and a training manual prepared by NACO was sent to
all the States for the purpose of Imparting training.
III)   Condom programming - The three major areas In which NACO has made
signifticant prdgress are (I) quality control of condoms; (ii) sodal markeUng of
condoms; and (iM) involvement of PVOs and NGOs in the programme.
In relation to quality contol, NACO has brought in the spiflcatons
parameters as presribed by WHO through revsion of Sdcedule 'R' of the Drugs
and Cosmetics Act 'The uniubrcated condoms has been phased out and
manufacturers are adhering to the new specifcations. Sodal marketng has been
accepted as the most effetve strategy for the condom promotion In the
country. Condom sale through social marketing has Increased from 146 tni1llon
pieces In 1994-9S to 324.43 mlllion pieces in 1997-98.
Iv)   In the' areas of Blood Safety 815 blood banks, 727 In government sector and 88'
voluntary blood banks were mbdemised. 31 Blood Component separaton



- 45 -
Appendix B
Page 4 of 9
MAY 31 '99  10:28AM WORD RtW N DELHI                                          P.5
fadlites were established and 9 more are in the pipeline. Tesung for HIV I and
HIV II has been made mandatory for all blood banks and licensing system has
been Tntroduced. under the Drugs and. Cosmedcs Rules. Professional blood
donation has been phased out under the orders of the Supreme Court of India
and a massive campaign has been launched for mobilising voluntary blood
donation. National and State Blood Transusion Councils have been established.
Ucenses have been issued to 1233 Blood Banks and unllncensed Blood Banks are
not permitted to provide blood transfuslon services, Professionals blood donning
actvities have been completey banned w.e,f from 1.1.98. Permission has been
granted to provide 100 percent exemption of Income-tax for donaton to Natonal
or State Blood. Transfsi'on Councils, A Draft National Blood Transfusion Policy
has been fbrrnulated for providing direcUons and guidance for better
management of blood transfusion services and for Improving the avallability of.
safe and adequate blood products. The percentage of infecton transmitted
through blood has registered a fall from 8% to 5% during the proect perod;
v)    IEC - The awareness level about HIV/AIDS has increased, from an insigni'icant
level to 68-94% In urban areas In the country and to 9-35 % In rural -areas due
to consistent mult-media campaigns launched under tho Prject Tamilnadu has
reported 90* awareness both among urban and rural populadon. Counselling
fadlities established through toll free telephones In Delhi and some state capitals
has proved efemely useful for providing information on HIV/AIDS to people
who like to remain anonymous. 3.5 million student youths in 4044 educational
Instions were covered under the "Universtty Talk . AIDS" programme
undertaken through the National Service Scheme of the Department of Youth
Affairs. 700 Nehru Yuvak Kendras have been finandally supported for spreading
the message of family life education;
vi)   Care and Support - As more and more full. blown cases started reportng at
hospitals In .clties like Mumbai, Pune and Chennal, the Importance of training
doctors and paramedical staff In dinical case management was recognised. .A,
training module in AIDS case management was prepared for doctors, induding
Pnmary Health Care Physidans and 600 teaching doctors were trained in Cinical 
management'of HIV/AIDS. A training manual for Nurses was also prepared.
Training on counseling has been Initiated and 490 counsellors at intermediary
level and 4000 counsellors at grass root levels were trafIned durng this perod.
NACO prepared guidetines for Hospital Infection Control and for running
Community Care Centres through NGOs.
vii)   Targeted interventions - Non-govemmental organisatlons have been encouraged
to take up targeted interventon programmes armongst fte High Risk Group. of
population like commercial sex workers, injecting drug users, migrant labour,
transport workers etc. Bilateral agendes like DFID and USAID have. supported
projects rike the Sonagachl Project in Calcutta, APAC Project in Tamilnadu and
ASHA Project in Mumbal Municipal Corporaton which have proved to be
successful In reducing the risk of transmission among commercdal sex workers.



- 46 -
Appendix B
Page 5 of 9
MY 31 '99  10:29AM WORLD sqNK NDELHI                                        P.6
Sustainabilli
NACP - I constiMed .A start up investment for slowing the spread of HIV in India
so as to reduce morbidity, mortal'ty and Impact of AIDS. There were frustrations in the
initial stages due to reluctance of the States to own the programme. These have been
overcome and over the last two years India's National AIDS Control Programme has
been substantially expanded. The draft of a Natlonal AIDS Prevendon and Control Policy
has been prepared on the basis of NACP - I. Some budgetary support from the States
for sustaining the activities 'after project funding ceases would be an essential
precondition for the States to join NACP - II. There is a growing realisation In the States
that AIDS Control Programme cannot be the uncaions of the Department of Health
alone and other related agencies have to be brought into the programme for effctve
interventons. This Includes social sector Ministries, and large employers' organisations
like Railways, Steel and Mines, Coal, Heavy Industry and Employee State Insurance
Corporation. These organisatlons are already In the midst of preparing action plans to
address the Issues of Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in their orgarnisations. States
spedfic plans are being drawn up with a view to ensuring that the specific needs of the
States are attended. The emphasis In North - East is more on preventing'injecting.drugs
use while In Maharashtra and Northeem States It is on control of STDs and HIV from high
rsks groups. In Nihern States the emphasis Is on IEC at the grass root levels by
Involving village leve1functionaries,
Borrowees Perforrnance
The establishment of a National AIDS Committee, Fe Naffonal AIDS, Board, the
National AIDS Control Organisatdon(NACO) and the State AIDS Cells/State AIDS Control
Societies strengthened India's Management Capacit to respond to the epidemic.
Sentinel $urveillance acivities have been expanded and steps have been taken to
Improve the coverage and reliability of the data. Awareness levels have gone, up
sharply, particularly In the urban areas. A comprehensive programme to modernize
Blood Banks has been implemented. NACO has framed a National HIV Testing Pollcy
and  campaigns tp increase voluntary blood donation  have, been sucaessfully
implemented. The STD Control and Condotn Promoton actvities have been expanded
and strengthened.
The Project has been able to udlise the entire proceeds of the $84 million Credit
provided by the World Bank. There was progressive improvement in the utilsatlon of
the Credit as seen from Table II which gives details of SAR Projecions and actual
disbursement of the Credit WHO which committed an assistance of US$ 1.5 million
actually provided an amount of $2.19 million as per details In Annexure III.
However there were some signlficant limitations In the Implementation of the
NACP l. The pentrallsation of the planning and the implementaton process did not take
into account reglonal differences and led to uneven Implementation of Proect activies



- 47 -
Appendix B
Page 6 of 9
MRY 31 '99  10:29A4 WORLD   1 N DHI                                          .7
at the Central level. Management issues, such as poor implementation capacty of the
State AIDS Cells and delays in the flow of funds from the Fnance Departments of the
State Government to the State AIDS Cells hampered the pace of implementation.
Several technical issues were not adequately addressed. Sentinel Surveillance was not
conducted intially across all States, resulting in inadequate informaton regarding the
progress of the epidemic. Targeted Interventlons among groups practidng high rlsk
behaviour was not implemented In most States. The clnlcal management and other
issues relatng to people living with HIV were not adequately addressed. There were
lags In the procurement of stores and equipments through WHO and DGS&D due to
inadequate appreciation of purchase procedures of World Bank and delays in the
formnulation of specifladons for equipment.
Leasgbs Leam
The lessons leamt during the ImplementaUon of the NACP I have been reviewed
and utilised while preparng NACP II. The building of ownership and manageme.nt
capadty at the State and Municipal Corporaton level through decentralization of
planning and implementation of AIDS Control Programme has become a priority. The
importance of reliabe surveillance data to track HlI prevalence level among the general
population and speafic high risk group is now recognised. The best practces for
intrventions targeting the high risk behaviour of population at highest risk of HIV
infection as well as in caring for people IMng wth HIV/AIDS have been identified for
action. A Comprehensive Monitorng and Evaluation System for measuring performance
in quantitave terms would be an Integral part of the NACP II. Technical support and
capacity for research and development are being strengthened through the
establishment of technical resource groups. The need to mobilise a wide spectrum of
stake holders, induding the community, private sector and others both within and
outside the health sector have been accorded a high priority. Finally NACO Is entrusing
the responsibilides for timely purchase of stores and equipment tD a professional
procurement agency.
Petforrnance Evaluatin of ithe Banke
The assistance etnded by the Bank contributed substantilly to the startlng up
of the actvities aimed at controlling the spmad of HIV in India. The project was
monitored dosely by the Supervisory Mission of the Bank during the entire project
period and these visits were very useful. The missions which ved India had high level
of commitment and provided guidance to the borrower in implementing the prjpct.
Problems were never allowed to accumulate. Infac the close inteaction between the
Project Director and the World Bank Team Leader invariably led to quick solutlons to the
problems. All the Alde Memoires of the Bank's Mission were fully documented and
contained the list of agreed recommended acUons. The borrower invadably responded
to the reviews of 'the various missions by taldng further acton and by furnishing the
progress report In dear and precise terms. Excellent cooperaton existed between the
Bank staff and NACO durng the implementation of the project and this relatfonship
continues to grow and the World Bank has already appraised NACP - I,



- 48 -
Appendix B
Page 7 of 9
MY 31 '9  10:0M WORLD BAW N DELHI                                                P.8
However, on a couple of occasions the credit was suspended due to the failure of
one or two States or UT to adhere to its obligaton to get its accounts audited within
stpulated perlod prescibed by Bank. It Is felt that It Is not appropriate to suspend the
credit for the entire country on account of a single State or UT fairing to submit audit
certificate within the stipulated period. Infact, It should be the effort of all concemed to
support the project in all those States and UTs which adhere to the financial stipulations
of the IDA.



-49 -
Appendix B
Page 8 of 9
MAY 31 '99  10:31 WORLD BIW N DEHI                                              P.9
ANP NEXURI
NATONAL AIDS COwrROL PRojECr (CR -23S0 - IN)
Table 8A: Project Cost by Component
_   -   _                                                (R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. in Lakhs)
S   Component            92-93   93494   94-95    9-96    96-97    97-98.   98-99    Total
N                                        .                                                   -
1. Programme             603.55  306.00   292.00   406.00  *1145.00    384.06    684.06   3520;67
Management             -
2. Promotng Pubik       2429.57 3266.00  3342.00  3565.46   7558.25   4965.46   2815.46 .27942.20
Awareess and
Communftt Suwort       -
3. Improving 8bod Safety  2065.02  2258;.W   3515.00  2841.96   3866.75   346196   4511.96  22S20.65
and Ratlonal         _   __.
4. Ciontrillng STDs      854.46  672.00   352.00   351.50    674.00    353.25   1353.25   4610.46
5. Building Surveillance    1047.40  798.00   754.00   835.27    856.00    835.27  '1735.27   6861.21
and Cllnical
Manamornent                                                           .0       .
Total                7.00  7300.00  88255.00  8000.19                      _     _14100_00  __000._0 _1100.00  c5s.19
* Includes funds for Building (Rs. 200 14khs), additonal vehides (Rs. 100 lakhs) and enhanced salary llabilityfor
staff (Rs. 510 lakhs) on account of Pay Commission's Recommendations.
ANNOXURE 31I
US S Million)
.________    As er SAR  .    Actual Disbursement
Year     Yearyv   Cumulative   Yeany   Curmulaive
1992-93     12.20       _12.20      8.88        8.88
1993-94     20.00       32.20       5.65      .14.53
1994-95     20.40       5260        7.66       22.19
1995-96     163        J8           9.16       31.35
.1996-97     15.10       84.00     21.24       52.59
1997-98                _           16.05       68.64
1998-99           ._-_        - -15.36         8440



- 50 -
Appendix B
Page 9 of 9
'MAY 31 '99  10:31AMIORD  t1W  N DELHI                                           P.
LD HEALTH ORGANIZATION                                ORGANISATION MONDIALE DE LA SANTE
SOUrS LAET ASIA REGION                                    R1GION DE L'ASIU DU SUD-B
OFFICE OF TNE WHO REPRESENTATIVE FOR INDIA
T1e. (9111) 379 21 791301  1 A101 1951  (3Itt. 207i
The Dy. Secretay
in   ,4, knr     t                             National AIDS Control Organiation
Nirman Bhavan
*P,R/A.20                            Maulana Azad Road
New Delhil1iO 011
30 March 1999
Dear Sir,
Subject:     WHO Aslfance pro,idsd to NACO during 1992-1999
We refer to your lektr No.T. I 101216198-NACO dated 1l March 1999 and wish to provide
you the following Information for your use.
Period              Partlis                           Amount (USD)
1992-1993    unde GPA (FX funds)                     793,565.-
1994-1995    under GPA (FX funds)                    911,116.-
1996-1997    under RB nodr                            i60,544.-
19981999    (so far) under RB fuods                    79,159.-
1998-1999    (so far) under Fr funds                  126,892.-
l998-1999    Expected to be used for 5.5 months
STC and 11 months STC for
*              HI V-AIDS                                120,000.-
Total for 1992.4999                    2,19i,376,
We kop. tha thi will meet your requirement.
Yours very truly,
iDr Paitha Abeykoon
Encl: as above                                .Ag.WKO Representative to India
:c:    F/U tile



