Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 26224
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
(Credit No. 2350)
July 2, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =Rupee
(As of January 19, 2000)
Rupee 43.5         US$1.00
Rupee 1.0          US$ 0.02299
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIDS         Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
BSS          Behavioral Surveillance Survey
CDC          United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CSW          Commercial sex worker
DfID         Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
GOI          Government of India
GPA          Global Programme on AIDS/WHO
HIV          Human immunodeficiency virus
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDU          Intravenous drug user
EEC         Information, education, and communication
MOHFW        Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI
MSM          Men who have sex with men
NACO         National AIDS Control Organization
NACP         National AIDS Control Programme
NFHS         National Family Health Survey
NGO          Nongovernmental organization
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PIS          Prevention Indicator Survey
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
PWA          Person living with HIV/AIDS
SACC         State AIDS Control Cell
SACS         State AIDS Control Society
TNSACS       Tamil Nadu SACS
STD          Sexually transmitted disease
TRG          Technical Resource Group
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization
Fiscal Year
Government:        April 1-March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation        Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group  NMr. Alain Barbu
Task Managers:                                 Mr. Timothy Johnston and
Ms. Martha Ainsworth



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project fifes and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ........................................................v
Key Staff Responsible .........................................................v
Preface ........................................................                                                                              vii
Summary ........................................................                                                                                ix
Introduction and Background .......................................................1I
Project Design           and    Objectives .........................................................3
Project Implementation                 Experience ........................................................              5
Ratings ........................................................8
Relevance ........................................................8
Efficacy ........................................................9
Strengthening the National Response to HIV/AIDS .......................9
Improving         Blood      Safety ........................................................               12
Promoting Public Awareness and Community Support ................ 13
Targeted Interventions for High-Risk Groups ............................... 16
Controlling         Sexually       Transmitted          Diseases ................................... 19
Improving Clinical Management of AIDS .................................... 20
Strengthening Surveillance, Monitoring, and Evaluation .............. 21
Efficiency ........................................................                                                   22
Institutional Development Impact ........................................................                               23
Sustainability .......................................................                                                24
Outcome .......................................................                                                       24
Bank Performance .......................................................                                              25
Borrower Performance .......................................................                                          26
Lessons .......................................................                                                                                26
Future Directions .......................................................                                                                       28
Recommendations .......................................................                                                                        29
References .......................................................                                                                              31
Annex A. Basic Data ........................................................                                                                   33
Annex B. Persons Consulted ........................................................                                                            35
Annex C. Project Financing by Component ........................................................                                                41
This report was prepared by Timothy Johnston and Martha Ainsworth, who assessed the project in August
12002. The report was edited by William Hurlbut, and Pilar Barquero provided administrative support.



iv
Annex D. Trends in Knowledge, Awareness, and Behavior, by State ........................ 43
Boxes
Box 1. Components of the National AIDS Control Project (1992-1999) ...........................4
Box 2. Adaptation and innovation in India's institutional response ................................ 10
Figures
Figure 1: Reported Annual Expenditure from the First India National AIDS Control
Project, Five States and Delhi, 1992-99 ($US) ..........................................................6
Figure 2: Increase in the Percent of Ever-Married Women 15-49 Who Have "Heard of
AIDS", selected states and nationally .............................................................   15
Figure 3: Expenditure on IEC in Selected States-Total and Per Capita ......................... 15
Figure 4: Percent of Ever-married Women 15-49 Who Spontaneously Reported that
Condoms Prevent HIV Transmission .............................................................   16
Figure 5: Reduction in Risk Behavior Among High-Risk Groups in Tamil Nadu ........... 18
Tables
Table 1. Cumulative Reported AIDS Cases in India, 1992-2002, Selected States and
Nationally ..............................................................2
Table 2: Number of NGOs Financed by the Projecta in Selected States and by NACO,
1993-99 ..............................................................7
Table 3: Growth in the Number of Sentinel Surveillance Sites, Selected States and Delhi
................................................................................................................................... 2 1
Table 4. Summary OED Ratings of Outcome by Objective ...................................................... 25



v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                           PPAR
Outcome                                 Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                          Likely
Institutional Development Impact        Substantial                     Substantial
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank.
Key Staff Responsible
Task Manager/Leader        Division Chief!     Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                      Salim Habayeb          Richard Skolnik       Heinz Vergin
Completion                    Salim Habayeb           Richard Skolnik        Edwin Lim






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the first India
National AIDS Control Project (Cr. 2350). The project was approved on March 31, 1992,
and provided financing for the government's National AIDS Control Program (NACP) to
address the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The project was supported by an IDA Credit of US$84
million. The credit was closed on March 31, 1999, following an 18-month extension of
the original closing date. The credit amount was fully disbursed, with the final
disbursements taking place on September 7, 1999.
This PPAR is based on findings from an evaluation mission in August 2002,
comprising Timothy Johnston (OEDST), Martha Ainsworth (OEDST), and Sheila Dutta
(AFRHV). Before departure, team members interviewed previous task managers for the
project, reviewed project files and the project's Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), and undertook an extensive review of the published literature on HIV/AIDS in
India. In New Delhi, the team interviewed staff of the World Bank country office, current
and former staff of the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) and the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), U.N. organizations and donor partners,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), persons living with HIV/AIDS, representatives
of professional organizations, researchers, and joumalists. The mission visited six states
and union territories to interview staff of State AIDS Control Societies (SACS), NGOs,
and other stakeholders: Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh,
and West Bengal. Findings from these areas are highlighted in this report.
To ensure consistency in the information collected during the state visits, the team
developed a common list of persons to be interviewed and a standard set of questions for
each respondent type (e.g., donors, NGOs, SACS, and researchers). Persons interviewed
included current and former members of the State AIDS Control Societies or Cells,
including the directors, the NGO coordinator, and the sentinel surveillance specialist.
When possible, a senior official in the state MOHFW was also interviewed. Several
NGOs that received funding under the project were also interviewed in each state visited.
A list of persons interviewed is attached in Annex B. The team also sought to collect
common data during each state visit, including trends in HIV prevalence by site; a
complete list of NGOs funded under this and the follow-on HIV/AIDS projects, the type
of activity funded, and the amounts awarded; and examples of information, education,
and communication (IEC) materials. The authors wish to express appreciation to all those
who made time for interviews and provided documents and information.
This is the third of a series of PPARs that will be undertaken on the "first
generation" of completed Bank-financed HIV/AIDS projects, as background for a larger
OED evaluation of the development effectiveness of the World Bank's AIDS assistance.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments
from the National AIDS Control Organisation have been taken into account in the text.
Following presentation to the World Bank's Executive Board this PPAR will be
considered a public document.






ix
Summary
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) on the India National AIDS Control Project. The project was
the first Bank-financed HIV/AIDS project in India, and only the second financed by the Bank
globally. It was a US$99.6 million project at appraisal, with an IDA credit of $84 million, a
government contribution of $14.1 million, and $1.5 million in cofinancing from the World
Health Organization (WHO). The project was approved on March 31, 1992, and closed on
March 31, 1999, following an 1 8-month extension of the original closing date, with the credit
amount fully disbursed. The project ultimately expended $113.3 million, with the
government contributing nearly double its original contribution ($27.5 million) and WHO an
additional $700,000.
The project's overall objective was to slow the spread of HIV by initiating a major
effort in the prevention of HIV transmission. It was a start-up investment to launch expanded
preventive activities. The specific objectives were to: (i) involve states and union territories
in developing HIV/AIDS preventive activities with a special focus on the major epicenters of
the epidemic; (ii) attain a satisfactory level of public awareness on HIV transmission and
prevention; (iii) develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior groups; (iv)
screen the majority of blood units collected for blood transfusions, and decrease the practice
of professional blood donations; (v) develop skills in clinical management, health education
and counseling, and psycho-social support to HIV sero-positive persons, AIDS patients, and
their associates; (vi) strengthen the control of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs); and (vii)
monitor the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country.
Due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation in this project, including the lack of
baseline information, OED was not able to estimate the number of HIV infections averted - the
project's broad objective. However, based on interviews with stakeholders in the field, OED
found that this project likely advanced by several years the government response to HIV/AIDS,
relative to the counterfactual of no project, and largely put in place the institutional mechanisms
at the national and state level on which a broader response could be launched. In addition, the
project greatly improved the safety of the blood supply and succeeded in establishing nation-
wide epidemiological surveillance of HIV. The project also enlisted the mass media and
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to increase awareness of HIV/AIDS; piloted
prevention interventions targeting groups at high risk of spreading HIV (commercial sex
workers, truck drivers, intravenous drug users); and trained thousands of health providers in
HIV/AIDS/STD care and prevention. The impact of these latter interventions is difficult to
gauge due to the lack of baseline, output and outcome data during the life of the project. The
strong institutional base built by the end of the project helped mobilize additional financial and
technical support from other international partners.
Although there are promising signs of behavior change among those engaged in risky
behavior, increased awareness of AIDS among the general population has not been
sufficiently accompanied by specific knowledge of how HIV is and is not transmitted, and
the project did not address sufficiently public attitudes toward people in high-risk groups and
those living with HIV/AIDS. The project greatly overestimated the capacity of NGOs to
design and implement HIV/AIDS interventions. Consequently, in most states a smaller
percentage of risk groups were reached than might have been expected. There is a continuing
need to build implementation capacity among NGOs and all levels of government if the
quality of the response and its coverage is to be enhanced. Finally, aside from the successful



x
implementation of nation-wide epidemiological surveillance of HIV in the last year of the
project, monitoring and evaluation was unsatisfactory. The design and ultimate effectiveness
of public information campaigns and pilot interventions might have been greatly enhanced
had the project invested in collecting the planned baseline data on attitudes, behavior, and
HIV levels in the general population and key groups at the start of the project. OED believes
that availability of critical information on nationwide patterns of HIV prevalence and risk
behavior earlier in the project's life also would have been helpful in generating stronger
political commitment and earlier action, preventing many more infections. Nevertheless, as a
start-up investment for the national HIV/AIDS response, project outcome is rated
satisfactory. Institutional development impact is rated substantial, and sustainability is rated
likely. Bank and borrower performance are rated satisfactory. A second HIV/AIDS project,
now under implementation, is building on the experience of the first project.
The experience of this project suggests a number of lessons that may be relevant in
other countries.
* Building robust institutions for a national response requires substantial innovation
and flexibility in implementation.
* Epidemiological and behavioral surveillance provide key information to build support
for the response where denial is high and the epidemic is otherwise "invisible."
* Projects that seek to enlist NGOs to implement HIV/AIDS interventions need to
carefully assess NGO capacity in light of what is expected, and to ensure continuous
training and technical support.
* When political commitment is heterogeneous in a decentralized system, channeling
resources to effective programs in areas with higher commitment can serve as a
powerful demonstration of the local feasibility of otherwise controversial programs.
* Targeted awareness and interventions for high-risk groups can be successful only to
the extent that complementary efforts are launched to improve the environment for
HIV prevention among these groups.
* Campaigns to increase awareness of HIV/AIDS and promote change in attitudes and
behavior should be informed by local research on behavior and attitudes in their
design and implementation and in such as way as to reduce stigma of people living
with HIV/AIDS.
* Where most clients seek STD treatment in the private sector, engaging private and
even traditional, non-allopathic practitioners is necessary to ensure coverage and
impact.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



Introduction and Background
1.    Since the discovery of the first cases of AIDS in India among female commercial
sex workers in 1986, HIV has spread to all states and union territories in the country.
Prevalence' of HIV remains highest among commercial sex workers (CSWs) and clients,
men who have sex with men (MSM), intravenous drug users (IDUs), truck drivers, and
sexually transmitted disease (STD) patients, whose behavior puts them at high risk of
contracting HIV. More than 50 percent of CSWs in state of Goa and the city of Mumbai
[Bombay] in Maharashtra are infected with HIV. In six states- Andhra Pradesh,
Kamataka, Maharashtra, Manipur, Nagaland, and Tamil Nadu - more than 1 percent of
women attending antenatal clinics (a relatively lower risk population) are infected and
HIV prevalence among STD clinic patients is greater than 5 percent (NACO 2001 a).
Nationally, HIV prevalence among adults (ages 15-49) is less than 1 percent, but with a
population of one billion, India has the world's second-largest number of people living
with HIV/AIDS-an estimated 3.97 million in 2000 (NACO 2000).
2.    Nearly 43,000 AIDS cases had been reported to NACO through December 2002,
with significant increases in recent years, reflecting both the progression of the epidemic
and improvements in AIDS case reporting (see Table 1). Yet these are certainly under-
estimates: only 5-10 percent of AIDS cases are currently reported. Among the reported
AIDS cases since 1986, 84 percent can be attributed to sexual transmission2 and 3 percent
each to transmission by intravenous drug use, contaminated blood, and mother-to-child
transmission. While nationally the extent of HIV transmission via IDU is small, it has
been the leading mode of transmission in several northeastem states (e.g., Manipur,
Nagaland). The contribution of unsafe injecting practices and other transmission in health
care settings is not known.
3.    Most Indian officials and the health establishment initially viewed HIV as an
"imported" infection-one that would be confined to persons retuming from abroad, to
port cities and marginalized groups, and which was unlikely to spread more widely into
Indian society. The Indian Council of Medical Research initiated limited HIV
surveillance in 1985, and in 1987 the government established a National AIDS Control
Program as a small unit within the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW).
The program's primary activity was monitoring HIV infection rates among risk
populations in a few major cities, although the subsequent discovery of H1V in the blood
supply led to the inclusion of blood safety in its mandate. HIV rose rapidly among CSW
in Mumbai, from 1 percent in 1987 to nearly 35 percent in 1991, and in Vellore, from 2
percent in 1986 to nearly 30 percent in 1990 (US Bureau of the Census 2002). In a single
year (1989-90), HIV among injecting drug users in the state of Manipur rose from
roughly 8 percent to 60 percent (Stimson 1996). These findings were widely reported in
1. HIV prevalence is defined as the percent of a given population infected with HIV at a point in time.
Prevalence levels in a specific population group can rise over time because of new infections (or incidence)
in the group, fall because of AIDS mortality in the group, or change in either direction because of the
arrival or departure of infected and uninfected individuals.
2. Most sexual transmission is assumed to be heterosexual; sexual transmission between men is under-
reported because of stigma.



2
the national press, but unfortunately contributed to the impression among many political
leaders and the public that HIV affected only marginalized groups.
Table 1. Cumulative Reported AIDS Cases in India, 1992-2002, Selected States and
Nationally
1992  1993  1994   1995  1996   1997  1998  1999    2000   2001    2002
Pradesh        1     1     1     5     24    39     46    48     533   1,265  2,350
Delhi         31    45    64    89    116   206    219   219     283    641    720
Maharashtra   93   124   280  1,040  1,560  2,490  3,314  3,378  3,726  6,454  9,106
Tamil Nadu    92   153   345   382    581  1,102  1,634  4,364  8,570  15,054  18,276
Uttar Pradesh  1     8     8     8     56    109   125   166     259    461    804
West Bengal    5    17    27    39     50    57     57    57      57    725     930
National     260   512   969  2,016  3,067  5,050  6,652  9,989  17,223  31,362  42,947
Source: NACO
Note: Data are as reported through December 31, 2002. The first reported cases were in 1986.
4.     Although some officials recognized the potential seriousness of the situation, the
initial response to HIV was characterized by complacency, denial, and a resort to "law and
order" measures. The latter included jailing infected sex workers and intravenous drug
users, deporting HIV-positive foreign nationals, and calling for mandatory testing by some
politicians (Dube 2001; Ramasubban 1998). The director of the Indian Council on Medical
Research (ICMR), for example, advocated making sex with foreigners illegal (Jayaraman
1988). The AIDS Control Program did not make extensive attempts to raise public
awareness. In 1989, however, the government developed a two-year medium-term plan for
AIDS control with funding and technical assistance from the World Health Organization's
Global Program on AIDS (WHO/GPA) and an annual budget of about US$2 million. It
sought to take a more proactive approach to HIV prevention and initiated efforts to
improve blood safety together with limited AIDS case management programs (Asthana
1996).
5.     In 1991, the World Bank initiated a dialogue with the government regarding
support for a series of disease control programs-including tuberculosis, leprosy, and
HIV/AIDS. Because of a 1991 financial crisis, the Ministry of Finance was keenly
interested in foreign exchange. There was skepticism among many within govenunent
regarding the relative importance of HIV/AIDS, however. As of September 1991, there
were only 96 reported AIDS cases in India-13 of whom were foreigners-and 5,879
persons known to be infected with HIV out of a population of nearly 850 million people.
Because of the lack of information on HIV prevalence in key populations of India and the
long lag between HIV infection and AIDS, the problem appeared small relative to other
pressing health issues. Further, the lack of infornation on the distribution of risk behaviors
in the population made it difficult to assess the potential for a large epidemic and allowed
to persist widespread denial that the conditions existed for an indigenous epidemic. Thus,
the govermment initially requested World Bank support primarily for blood safety, even



3
though the majority of known infections at that time could be attributed to heterosexual
transmission. Following an intensive dialogue with the Bank and WHO, the government
prepared a comprehensive five-year (1992-97) National Strategic Plan for the Prevention
and Control of HIV/AIDS. The project design represented a compromise: although blood
safety still constituted more than a third of the planned project expenditures, the scope of
the national program and project was broadened to encompass prevention of the major
modes of HIV transmission, including sexual transmission among high-risk groups and
raising AIDS awareness in the general population.
PROJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES
6.    The India National AIDS Control Project ($99.6 million) was approved in 1992 and
was funded by an $84 million IDA credit supplemented by WHO/GPA co-financing of
$1.5 million and a planned government contribution of $14.1 million. It was only the
second stand-alone HIV/AIDS project financed by the Bank.
7.    The overall objective of the project was to slow the spread of HIV by initiating a
major effort to prevent HIV transmission. It was characterized as a start-up investment to
expand preventive activities and to put in place the institutions and procedures necessary to
fight the epidemic. The specific objectives were to: (i) involve states and union territories in
developing HIV/AIDS preventive activities with a special focus on the major epicenters of
the epidemic; (ii) attain a satisfactory level of public awareness on HIV transmission and
prevention; (iii) develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior groups; (iv)
screen the majority of blood units collected for blood transfusions and decrease the practice
of professional blood donations; (v) develop skills in clinical management, health
education and counseling, and psycho-social support to HIV sero-positive persons, AIDS
patients, and their associates; (vi) strengthen the control of sexually transmitted diseases
(STDs); and (vii) monitor the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country. To
accomplish these objectives, the project had five components (see Box 1). The project
design included a number of intermediate and outcome targets, including involving at least
100 NGOs in prevention programs in at least 12 states.
8.    The project agreement included several conditions of effectiveness and
"assurances" regarding HIV/AIDS policy and programn implementation. As a condition of
effectiveness, the government agreed to establish the National AIDS Control
Organization (NACO) as a semi-autonomous body under the MOHFW, with the NACO
Director having the status of an Additional Secretary within the MOEFW.3 The
government provided several key assurances that were to be implemented soon after
credit effectiveness, among them: each state and union territory was to establish an AIDS
Control Cell in the state MOHFW to direct HIV/AIDS programs; the government agreed
to select NGOs to participate in the project based on criteria and procedures satisfactory
to the World Bank; in response to concems about the poor quality of condoms (including
frequent breakage), the government agreed to amend the national Drugs and Cosmetics
3. The project agreement actually specified creation of an independent National AIDS Control Authority,
but by mutual agreement NACO was created within MOHFW (see Box 2, below). An Additional
Secretary is second in rank only to the Secretary of the MOHFW, who reports to the Minister.



4
Act so that all condoms manufactured or sold in India conformed to WHO standards; and
the government was to establish by 1992 a Technical Advisory Subcommittee on Social,
Ethical, and Legal Issues, in response to concerns regarding discriminatory practices
against HIV-positive persons. For both legal and pragmatic reasons, the Bank did not
include any specific conditions related to changing existing or proposed discriminatory
laws related to persons living with HIV/AIDS or the confidentiality of HIV testing. It
nonetheless engaged the government in private dialogue on these issues, which may have
contributed to the government's subsequent decision to amend or withdraw some
discriminatory legislation at both national and state levels.4
Box 1. Components of the National AIDS Control Project (1992-1999)
(1) Strengthening the management capacity for the HIV/AIDS prevention and control program through the
formation and support of organizational structures at the national and state levels ($7.7 million);
(2) Promoting public awareness and community support for AIDS prevention with a primary focus on
sexual transmission, behavioral change, and condom promotion through television and radio stations,
private advertising agencies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and the health system ($31.1
million);
(3) Improving blood safety by raising blood screening from 30 percent to 90 percent of the blood supply,
enhancing the rational use of blood, and raising the share of voluntary donations ($34.1 million);
(4) Building surveillance and clinical management capacity to monitor the spread of the epidemic and to
strengthen the skills of health staff and social workers in managing and counseling persons with HIV/AIDS
($11.6 million); and
(5) Controlling sexually transmitted diseases by improving clinical services and case management in the
country's public STD clinics and in private practice in metropolitan areas ($14.5 million).
9.     Project design was based on a number of assumptions of implementation: (i) that
states would be willing and able to use the money to design and implement HIV/AIDS
interventions; (ii) that NGOs had the experience and capacity to deliver HIV/AIDS
interventions, particularly to high-risk groups in urban areas; and (iii) that the existing
health structures could be relied upon to reach rural populations. The assumption of state
involvement was key, because health is constitutionally a state responsibility in India's
federal system. Yet, neither states nor NGOs were consulted during project design.5
Further, while the design sought to avoid creating a parallel "vertical" structure for the
HIV/AIDS program at district and local levels, the government's family planning and
other disease control programs also had limited involvement in the design process.
4. Legislative changes included the amendment of the 1985 Goa Public Health Act to remove mandatory
testing and other discriminatory measures against HlV-positive persons. In 1989, the govemment introduced
an AIDS prevention bill in Parliament that called for forced testing and isolation of HIV-positive individuals
and gave government broad powers of enforcement. The bill was withdrawn in 1992, following criticism by
domestic activists and international organizations (see also Asthana 1996; Jain 2002).
5. The economic reform program launched in 1991 was accompanied by efforts to decentralize
responsibility for many govermnent programs and budgets to states. The project ultimately benefited from
this government-wide process, but in the early 1990s central control was still very much in place.



5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
10.   Project implementation was slower than planned in the early years. Given that the
organizational structures for implementing the national and state-level programs had to
be built up nearly from scratch, this was not entirely surprising. In the first two years,
NACO and 32 State AIDS Control Cells (SACCs) were established and functioning to
varying degrees. But project implementation faced a number of bottlenecks. By the Mid-
term Review in late 1995, nearly one-third of the total project budget ($29 million) had
been expended, most of it for blood safety equipment. This reflected the relatively higher
priority the national and state governments attached to this component as well as its
simplicity (mostly procurement of equipment). It also was a less politicized component
because it did not require directly addressing sexual behavior. Only 29 sentinel
surveillance sites had been set up and were functioning. IEC materials were slow to be
produced and of mixed quality; progress on the STD component was limited; and fewer
than two dozen NGOs had received funding for awareness-raising activities.
11.   Several factors contributed to the slow pace of implementation. NACO staff had
limited experience with Bank rules and procedures, particularly those for procurement and
financial management. This contributed to delays in procuring equipment and supplies for
the blood safety and STD components. While project design called for contracting out a
substantial portion of the awareness-raising component either to private advertising firms
or to NGOs, the government had limited experience with such arrangements. Moreover,
technical capacity for HIV/AIDS program design and implementation were weak-within
NACO, the SACCs, and the NGO community. Finally, despite the efforts of dedicated
officials at the national and state levels, political commitment was mixed nationally and
weak in many states, particularly those with few reported AIDS cases.
12.   The effectiveness of State AIDS Control Cells was undermined by limited
technical capacity, staff shortages and turnover, funding bottlenecks, and centralized
control by NACO. As of 1995, one-third of the SACC posts remained unfilled, and
turnover was high, in part due to a widespread perception of the Cells by career civil
servants as a "punishment posting." Although the project was almost entirely centrally
funded, SACCs had to requisition funds through their state ministries of finance. Due to
liquidity problems and competing priorities, the states often delayed release of funds by
months, and even then released less than originally budgeted. This made it difficult to
plan and execute programs, contributed to frustrations among committed government
staff, and strained relations between state officials and NGOs (Sethi 1999).
13.   The project succeeded in launching SACCs in all 25 states and 7 union territories,
but due to significant variations in state commitment and capacity, project resources were
spent disproportionately in a few-Tamil Nadu (24 percent), Maharashtra (10 percent),
and Andhra Pradesh (10 percent). These and other "strong performer" states consistently
spent 80-100 percent of their budget allocations, while "weak performer" states (such as
Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) typically spent less than 10 percent of their allocated budgets



6
(see Figure 1).6 The high share in Tamil Nadu reflects in part its status as one of the most-
affected states and greater commitment by the state government. But in 1994, Tamil
Nadu also transformed its State AIDS Control Cell into a semi-autonomous State AIDS
Control Society (SACS) led by a senior officer from the elite Indian Administrative
Service (IAS). The autonomy of the SACS significantly helped to facilitate disbursement,
and Tamil Nadu came to be seen as a model for other state programs.' Adoption of the
SACS model was made a condition for participation in the follow-on Second India
National AIDS Control Project (1999-2004), and many states established SACS in the
final year of the first project (including Andhra Pradesh, which doubled its annual
HIV/AIDS spending following establishment of the SACS in 1998).
Figure 1: Reported Annual Expenditure from the First India National AIDS
Control Project, Five States and Delhi, 1992-99 ($US)
5,000
4,500                 ..... ... . . ...  . .
4.000                . .. ........+---Tamil Nadu
4,000     __     _-*- _       __ 
3,500 -            -._.--- .-  _ __.- --- --         __ __.-Andhra Pradesh
3 3 ,000  -. .......... ...... .--- - . ... . ................ .
(A                                 /W_Maharashtra
:0  2,500  ......         .   .  . s .   .    .  .............
2,5000                                               ..........
-0   West Bengal
s 1,500                                    .
1,000                                                  -      Uttar Pradesh
500 -                                      w       ^  Delhi
0 _
1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99
Fiscal year
Note: Rupee values were converted to US dollars using to the average exchange rate for each period.
14.    The project placed heavy reliance on NGOs for awareness raising and reaching
high-risk groups. However, the Bank and national government significantly overestimated
the capacity of NGOs to implement HIV/AIDS activities.8 Although NGOs had been
6. The Mid-term Review noted that about a third of the states were implementing the program satisfactorily
(at least in terms of disbursements), but expressed concern that another third had mixed performance, and
performance was weak in the final third. This remained unchanged through the end of the project.
7. Under Indian law, societies are quasi-governmental entities that can receive and disburse funds without
going through the government's normal approval processes. Core staff were seconded from government
ministries, while some additional technical staff could be on contract.
8. Other donors also overestimated NGO capacity. The USAID-funded AIDS Prevention and Control
Project (APAC) in Tamil Nadu first advertised for NGOs in mid-1996. However, many NGOs that
responded were small, had no experience working with risk groups or in the areas where interventions were



7
involved in health, family planning, and other development issues for decades, few in the
early 1990s had experience in the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS activities or
represented the marginalized groups at highest risk of HIV-commercial sex workers,
intravenous drug users, or men who have sex with men. Many state governments were
reluctant to devote substantial resources to NGO activities, and all NGO proposals had to
be approved by NACO prior to funding, further contributing to funding delays.
15.    As a result of both the administrative and budgetary encumbrances of the SACCs
and limits to NGO capacity, components that relied on NGOs for implementation were
among the slowest to disburse. By the Mid-tern Review, 13 states had undertaken some
training or funding for NGO activities (including workshops to help NGOs develop
proposals), but the vast majority of NGOs were funded in just two states (Maharashtra
and Tamil Nadu) (see Table 2). In addition, NACO funded two "nodal agencies" to
provide technical support to small NGOs. However, except in Maharashtra, these played
a limited role. NACO prepared guidelines and selection criteria for funding of NGOs,
including a requirement that NGOs must have been in existence at least three years
before receiving funding. The extent of NGO involvement as well as the modalities for
NGO selection, financing, and technical support varied substantially among the states,
with the process most developed in Tamil Nadu.
Table 2: Number of NGOs Financed by the Projecta in Selected States and by
NACO, 1993-99
State               1993-94   199495   1995-96    1996-97   1997-98   1998-99
Andhra Pradesh        0         0         0         9         34        0
Delhi                 0         0         0         8         4         1
Maharashtra           6         10       20        16         97        32
Tamil Nadu            0         17       22        63         88       106
Uttar Pradesh         0         0         3         8         13        0
West Bengal           0         5         6         10        10        10
NACOb                 0         0         6         20        47        8
a. The number of NGOs awarded contracts in each year (not the number of interventions supported).
b. Contracts directly with NACO-not a national total.
16.   Following the Mid-term Review, responsibility for selection and funding NGOs
was increasingly devolved to the states, and the number of NGOs financed increased
(Table 2). The Bank and NACO agreed to adopt a "performance-based" approach to
improve the pace of implementation. Additional resources were allocated to the states
that were implementing their programs more effectively. Although this accentuated
differences in resource allocation across states, it introduced a performance incentive and
provided experience in scaling up the response in a few "well perforning" states. The
project was extended by 18 months to allow completion of project activities.
17.   The process for vetting NGO proposals also evolved. Initially, NGO contracts
were only for one year and there were often delays in receipt of payment, particularly the
needed. APAC provided additional training before the first NGO interventions could be financed in 1997-
98 (Bowers et al 2000).



8
final payment. NGOs were thus often left with gaps of 4 to 6 months between contracts
with no support for the interventions they had launched. According to OED interviews
with NGOs that participated in the program in five states and Delhi, some of the larger
NGOs were able to bridge these gaps with their own resources, while others did not have
resources from elsewhere and had to discontinue interventions. This experience led to an
evolution to longer contracts (3 years), renewable annually, which was formally adopted
as the norm for the second AIDS project. Thus, the project represented a learning process
that helped refine the modalities for NGO support and contributed to a significant
increase in the number and capacity of NGOs working in HIV/AIDS. While the number
of NGOs was constrained by capacity and the coverage of interventions was far from
universal, several of the states visited by OED were able to focus the limited existing
capacity on priority areas by directing NGOs to submit proposals for specific types of
interventions in specific locales. This likely improved the efficiency of the use of NGOs
and guided them to interventions for high-risk groups that are difficult to reach.9
18.   By project closing in March 1999, the credit had fully disbursed, with nearly 40
percent of project expenditures for blood safety, 21 percent for raising awareness and 16
percent for STD control (Annex C). The government spent nearly twice its originally
planned counterpart contribution ($27.5 million compared to a planned $13.9 million).
The project clearly exceeded its target of engaging 100 NGOs in 12 states.
Ratings
RELEVANCE
19.   Project relevance is judged to be substantial. The project design was consistent
with government and Bank strategies and helped improve the relevance of the
government's HIV/AIDS strategy. It was generally sound technically, seeking to address
the major modes of HIV transmission, and placing priority on regions and groups most
affected by the epidemic. The project helped design the structures for the national AIDS
response at both the national and state levels, and provided critical financing-at levels that
would not have been forthcoming from national or state budgets. The project established a
strong partnership with WHO/GPA, and later helped mobilize additional donor resources
(including from DfiD, USAID, and CIDA). In addition, the project engaged a wide range
of stakeholders in the HIV/AIDS response, including NGOs. The main weakness in project
design was that it did not adequately anticipate the constraints to implementing the
program-both from an institutional and political perspective. Instead, the project helped
to identify and address the complexities during implementation.
9. The states also conmiissioned NGOS to undertake awareness-raising activities for groups in the general
population.



9
EFFICACY
Strengthening the National Response to HIV/AIDS
20.    The national response is farther advanced than it would have been in the absence
of the project-although not where it could have been ifpolitical commitment had been
stronger and more consistent. The Bank and government deserve credit for launching the
project when there were still relatively few visible signs of HIV/AIDS in most of India
and denial was widespread. The project provided the majority of financing for the
national program from 1992-98 and a framework that helped mobilize substantial
additional donor financing. Because of competition for scarce government resources and
uncertain political commitment to HIV/A1IDS prevention during much of the 1990s, it is
doubtful that the national and state governments would have been willing to allocate a
similar level of resources from their own budgets. HIV/AIDS had a higher profile and
priority than would have prevailed in the absence of Bank support. '
21.    The project helped establish and refine the institutionalframeworkfor the
national HIV/AIDS response, a model that has endured and been strengthened (Box 2).
The organizational framework for NACO established during the early years of the project
is still in place today." The establishment of State AIDS Control Cells provided the basis
for decentralizing the national response, and the subsequent adoption of the Society
model further facilitated implementation. The Society model appears to have facilitated
procurement and disbursements, and some informants perceive that leadership by IAS
officers improved management, increased the influence of the SACCs, and facilitated a
"nonmedical" response. On the other hand, many IAS officers do not perceive the SACS
as a prestigious post, and turnover is very high (averaging once per year in many states).
This is one of the major constraints to capacity and institutionalization of the response at
the state level, and is particularly problematic because most IAS officers come into the
position knowing little about HIV/AIDS and even after establishment of SACS, many
had responsibilities in addition to HIV/AIDS.
22.   Although the IDA credits still constitute the majority ofprojectfunding, the
national government's own expenditures for HIV/AIDS increased during the project
period-from about $2 million annually in 1991 to roughly $20 million in 1999. Because
of the availability of central funding, however, few states allocate their own fumds for
HIV/AIDS. 12 Of the states visited by OED, only Maharashtra contributed its own budget
during 1992-99, and only Andhra Pradesh currently makes a substantial commitment of
its own resources, committing an additional 27 percent beyond the NACO budget to
augment the number of sentinel surveillance sites in 2001.
10. "International donors have been an important impetus for policy change and... [brought] in new
scientific knowledge and technical skills, and methodologies in research in both the medical and social and
behavioral services." (Ramasubban 1998)
11. "The creation of NACO represented a turning point in Indian AIDS policy." (Asthana 1996)
12. However, states do finance STD and blood bank staff and operation of major hospitals treating AIDS
patients, such as the Tamnbaran Hospital in Tamil Nadu.



10
Box 2. Adaptation and innovation in India's institutional response
Both the national and state-level institutions that led the response to AIDS underwent changes in the course
of the project to improve project performance and work within political and administrative constraints.
NACO: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Project Agreement called for the establishment of an
independent National AIDS Control Authority, which would have functioned as an autonomous parastatal.
However, when it became clear that Parliament would not approve such an arrangement, the Bank and
government agreed to make NACO a semi-autonomous organization under the MOHFW and headed by a
Director with the status of an Additional Secretary.
State AIDS Control Societies: The state response was initially located in State AIDS Control Cells within
the state Ministries of Health, but the Cells encountered funding bottlenecks, as all funding requests and
disbursements were funneled through the state Ministries of Finance. Tamil Nadu innovated by creating a
quasi-government "society" in which to base it's AIDS response, headed by an IAS officer. Under Indian
law, societies can receive and disburse funds without going through the cumbersome govermnent approval
process. By the beginning of the second AIDS project, all states were following this model, although not
all SACS are headed by IAS officers.
23.    The national strategy and project emphasized the importance of encouraging
HIVIAIDS interventions in other sectors, but with afew notable exceptions, the response
of other ministries was limited. Given NACO's location within the MOHFW,
intersectoral activities depended on the persuasion of NACO leadership, and the
emergence of "champions" in other ministries. The "Universities Talk AIDS Program,"
launched in 1991, sponsored awareness-raising activities that reached an estimated 3.5
million students by 1999 (NACO 1999). Situated in the Department of Youth affairs in
the Ministry of Education, the program-designed by UNICEF and UNESCO and
expanded with project support-used students to design and carry out awareness-raising
activities. The National Council for Educational Research and Training, which is
responsible for developing national curriculum standards, developed a school curriculum
in 1995 with support from UNICEF."3 States are responsible for final decisions on
curriculum. As of 2002, the HIV/AIDS module is reportedly being offered in 10 percent
of schools nationally and as high as 60 percent and 52 percent in the cities of Mumbai
and Chennai, respectively."4 Several other sectors initiated HIV/AIDS activities during
the project, including the ministries of Information and Broadcasting, Tourism, Mines,
Labor, Social Justice and Employrnent, and Women's Affairs-but little evidence is
available regarding the outcome of these activities.
24.    The project made limited progress integrating with other MOHFWprograms.
Despite NACO's location within MOHFW, in many respects it functioned as a vertical
disease control program. The project's main contribution to integration was its direct
.support of training for treatment of AIDS and STDs and the inclusion of HIV/AIDS
issues in pre-service medical training. But OED found little evidence of follow-up on
short-term training or that HIV/AIDS concerns had been integrated into MOHFW
programming and supervision. Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the major opportunistic
13. The development of an AIDS curriculum coincided with the transfer of the first Project Director of
NACO, Mr. Dasgupta, to Secretary, Ministry of Education.
14. NACO data, as of August 2002. National figures exclude the states of Haryana and Jarnmu and
Kashmir, for which data were incomplete.



11
infections of AIDS patients, and prophylaxis and treatment of TB in HIV-infected
patients is key in reducing morbidity. The Bank missed a major opportunity to coordinate
HIV and TB when it launched a tuberculosis project with no links to the AIDS project.'5
Efforts to coordinate HIV and TB have only emerged in the past several years, although
some states have designated district TB officers as responsible for HIV/AIDS. The
limited integration between AIDS and these other health programs reduced the "reach" of
the HIV/AIDS program into rural areas, as evidenced in the low levels of HIV awareness
in most rural areas (see below).
25.   The policy and legislative frameworkfor HIV/AIDS has improved significantly,
although afew key gaps remain, and policy implementation remains a challenge. The
project, through its support for NACO, helped refine the policy framework for
HIV/AIDS. NACO has developed a wide range of specific policies and guidelines-
including testing, blood safety, and treatment and care for AIDS patients (NACO 1996).
Legislative changes have generally taken longer than expected-for example, the
government fulfilled the condition for adopting WHO standards for condoms in 1996
rather than in 1992 as originally agreed, and the national AIDS policy was developed in
the final year of the project and not approved until 2001 (NACO 2001b). Due in part to
the difficulties in changing legislation through Parliament, a number of the key policy
and legal changes were initiated through India's activist Supreme Court, including
mandating licensing for blood banks and banning professional blood donations. Although
a progressive policy framework is now in place at the national level, policies have
advanced farther than NACO's ability to enforce them, as evidenced by the significant
gaps between a number of policies (e.g., non-discrimination against AIDS patients, or
confidentiality of HIV testing) and practice.'6 Anti-sodomy laws continue to present
significant problems for reaching MSM, and anti-solicitation laws have also been used as
a pretext by local police for harassment of CSW outreach workers-creating a situation
where activities financed by one branch of government have been subject to law-
enforcement actions by another (Friedman 1996; Human Rights Watch 2002).
26.   Statements of support from political leaders have increased, but skepticism
continues regarding the scope of the epidemic. The HIV/AIDS program initially was
supported by a few key officials, including the Secretary for the MOHFW. But the
national government and most state governments continued to accord relatively low
priority to HIV/AIDS through the mid-1990s. In 1994, the national Minister of Health
and Family Welfare forcefully denied that HIV/AIDS was a problem in India (Haniffa
1994). By the final two years of the project, however, senior officials and political leaders
at the national level began to speak publicly about the importance of HIV prevention and
behavior change-including a speech by the Prime Minister in 1998 (NACO 1999). In
2002, the leader of the opposition Congress Party convened all the Congress Party Chief
Ministers to call on them to take a more active role in HIV/AIDS prevention (Soniya
Gandhi speech, NACO website). Support by political leaders at the state level has also
15. Tuberculosis Control Project (Credit 2936), approved in 1997.
16. "...problems of translating policy into practice in the Indian context may have been
underestimated ... [Moreover], the very progressive approach of national-level policymakers has been
countered by conservative forces at the state and local levels." (Asthana 1996)



12
improved overall, but varies substantially from state to state. In the states visited by OED,
most Ministers of Health and, in some cases, Chief Ministers have been willing to make
statements in support of HIV/AIDS programs, but many are still reluctant to speak
explicitly about prevention. Andhra Pradesh is a notable exception; the state's Chief
Minister became actively engaged in the state prevention program in 2000 after presented
with the alarning finding that 2 percent of pregnant women at the state's sentinel
surveillance sites were infected with HIV. Nevertheless, national and state political
leaders remain sensitive to international reports regarding the potential scope of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in India (Eberstadt 2002; Lancet 2001).
27.   The project and the Bank contributed to political support through advocacy with
senior officials and strengthening sentinel surveillance. The project was launched despite
low political commitment to addressing HIV/AIDS. Bank team members, including
sector and country management, played a useful advocacy role in raising the importance
of AIDS in dialogue with officials in health, finance, and other ministries at the national
and state levels. Given the sensitivities regarding AIDS in the early years, there is no
evidence that a more public advocacy role by the Bank would have strengthened national
commitment; according to a range of informants, it instead could have strengthened the
perception that the HIV/AIDS program was externally driven. The eventual expansion of
HIV sentinel surveillance helped reduce denial and eventually contributed to political
support; delays in establishing a national sentinel surveillance system represented a lost
opportunity (see below).
Improving Blood Safety
28.   The blood safety component, which represented 40 percent of project cost and
nearly half of the Bank's credit, contributed to a significant improvement in the safety of
the blood supply and is widely viewed as one of the project's major contributions. In
1992, less than 30 percent of the blood supply was screened for HIV. The blood banking
system was poorly regulated, with many public and private blood banks operating
without a license, and most with outdated equipment. Due to a shortage of blood, up to a
third of donations were from low-income "professional" paid blood donors, who were at
higher risk of HIV/AIDS, while only about 30 percent came from voluntary donations.
Inefficient medical practices, including single-unit transfusions, contributed to wastage of
scarce blood.
29.   The project upgraded equipment (including refrigerators and centrifuges) in
government blood banking facilities, facilitated technical assistance and advice on blood
safety from CDC and WHO, and financed HIV test kits. It also sponsored IEC campaigns
at both national and state levels to encourage voluntary blood donations and to increase
awareness of the potential danger of unsafe blood from unlicensed blood banks or
professional donors. That said, equipment procurement was not based on a facility-
specific needs assessment. Some of the equipment procured appears to have been over-
dimensioned and is under-utilized, particularly for lower-level facilities.'7 In addition,
17. In a tertiary facility visited by OED, a 100 blood unit refrigerator procured during the first project sat
unused next to a 30 unit refrigerator procured under the second project, which was in use and adequate for



13
the project provided no direct support to private blood banks, even though they account
for 20 percent of the blood supply.
30.    NACO was responsible for ensuring the safety of the blood supply but considered
its ability to enforce a ban on "professional" blood donations and to strengthen licensing
requirements to be inadequate. However, changes in the regulatory environment were
generated by the Indian Supreme Court in 1996, in response to a lawsuit brought by an
NGO. This ruling called for the banning of professional blood donations by 1997 and
required that all blood banks be licensed in the next two years or face closure. The ruling
shifted responsibility for ensuring safety to the national drug control authority. Many of
the government's blood banks would have faced difficulty meeting certification
requirements.
31.    There is a wide consensus that the blood supply is substantially safer than it had
been previously. 1 All facilities report that 100 percent of blood is screened-exceeding
the project's target of 90 percent-but screening may not be comprehensive at the district
level and in some private facilities. Unfortunately, the current monitoring system is not
sufficiently comprehensive to assess how safe the blood supply has become. As of 2000,
the share of voluntary blood donations rose to 39 percent, with the remaining 61 percent
"replacement" donations (NACO 2000). However, an estimated 5 percent of the
replacement donations may still be from professional donors. This nevertheless
represents a substantial decline in professional donations since the start of the project.
Promoting Public Awareness and Community Support
32.    The project supported a wide range of activities to raise awareness of
HIV/AIDS-for both the general public as well as risk groups. In a departure from
typical government practices, many of the media campaigns were designed by private
advertising agencies. The media campaigns initially were sponsored by NACO-which
also negotiated free air time for AIDS messages with some media outlets-but
subsequently a number of state Cells/Societies sponsored their own campaigns.
Expenditures on IEC and public awareness campaigns were slow at first and concentrated
in a few states, but the rate of disbursement accelerated in the later years.
33.    HIV/AlDS awareness in the general population increased during the project. The
absence of a comprehensive baseline survey on awareness and behaviors makes it
difficult to assess impact, but a few key HIV/AIDS-related questions were included in the
National Family Health Surveys (NFHS) of 1992/93 and 1998/99. Knowledge of AIDS
the hospital's needs. OED received reports that in some district-level government facilities, which typically
use only a few units of blood per month, the refrigerators were too large to be installed.
18. The percentage of AIDS cases attributable to infected blood has declined since the beginning of the
project from 8 percent in 1992 to 3 percent in 1998. While this is often cited as evidence of success for the
blood supply component, most of those developing AIDS in the late 1 990s or early 2000s would have
acquired the virus before the investments and policy changes under this component. Furthermore, the
change in the share of AIDS cases due to contaminated blood reflects the dramatic expansion of cases due
to heterosexual transmission. The mission was unable to obtain estimates of the change in number of new
HIV infections due to contaminated blood over the life of the project.



14
(the response to the question, "Have you ever heard of AIDS?") among women of
reproductive age increased nationally from 17 percent to 40 percent and in all states for
which data are available for both periods (Figure 2 and Appendix D). Although this
increased awareness may be partly due to news coverage and other information sources,"9
it seems plausible that the project contributed to the increase. Among the states visited by
OED, those with the highest IEC expenditures (Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh) also
saw the greatest improvements in awareness (Figures 2 and 3).
34.    While average "knowledge of AIDS" appears to have more than doubled among
women of childbearing age, it was still low in absolute terms at the end of the project
(only 40 percent). To be fair, the project targeted urban areas and, there, results were
likely better.20 Further, the increases in awareness among the states that used project
resources most intensely were substantially better than the national average - rising from
23 percent to 87 percent in Tamil Nadu and 19 percent to 61 percent in Maharashtra. No
nationally representative data on awareness among the general population of men were
collected during the project.
35.    Of equal or even greater concern is whether those who had heard of AIDS had
specific and correct knowledge regarding how HIV is transmitted and how it can be
prevented. In 1998/99, for example, only 8 percent of women of reproductive age
spontaneously named condoms as a means of preventing HIV/AIDS, a small increase from
5 percent in 1992/93 (Figure 4). A wide range of misconceptions also persist. In 2001, only
21 percent of the general population understood that HIV cannot be spread through
mosquito bites or through sharing a meal with an infected person and that a healthy-looking
person can have HIV (NACO 2001c). Only 30 percent of urban dwellers got all three of
these questions correct, and only 29 percent of CSWs. There are no national trend data
regarding other key behavioral indicators in the general population, such as the percentage
reporting non-regular sex partners and condom use among non-regular partners.2'
19. Differences in the level and rate of change of awareness across states can be explained by many factors,
including education levels (Kerala and Delhi both have above average female literacy, for example) and the
extent of exposure to mass media, particularly television (Balk and Lahiri 1997).
20. Unfortunately, the NFHS did not provide a breakdown of results for urban and rural areas.
21. A direct comparison of the 2001 Behavioral Surveillance Survey (BSS) with the four states covered in a
NACO-sponsored 1996/97 Prevention Indicators Survey suggests an increase in reported non-regular
partners. However, this comparison is incorrect and misleading for the most part because the survey
methodologies and areas covered are not strictly comparable (NACO 2001 c, 1997a).



15
Figure 2: Increase in the Percent of Ever-Married Women 15-49 Who Have "Heard
of AIDS", selected states and nationally
100
90   .  ...    .. ...                                            ..
8 0               .   .              .   ...............................   . .................  .... . ..
70
60   .       . . ....
cD  4 0                     . . .... . _. ........_. ...._ .....
3 0          . .. . D . ... .  .  i.....                        . -  .   .  .. . ...  ...  . ... -  .
20
*_ ',,10   -', "- 
Tamil Nadu    Delhi      Andhra    Maharashtra West Bengal Uttar Pradesh  National
Pradesh
51992-93 (NFHS-1)     * 1998-99 (NFHS-2)
Note: Data for Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were not collected in the NFHS-1
Figure 3: Expenditure on IEC in Selected States-Total and Per Capita
0.18                                                                       10000
0.16
0.14                                                                       8000
0.10200 
6000  0
..0.06
t004                                                                          2000 9
0.02                                                                             F
Tamil Nadu  Delhi    Andhra  Maharashtra West Bengal  Uttar  Natonal
Pradesh                       Pradesh
|M-23" Per capita IEC expenditure  4-Total IEC expenditure
36.     While the overall spending on awareness raising ($23.8 million) was modest for a
country of 1 billion people (amounting to only about 2.4 US cents per capita over the life
of the project), there are reasons to believe that the component could have been more
effective. First, only 76 percent of the amount allocated for public awareness ($31
million) was spent, even though the resources available to the project exceeded the
original budget. Second, the content of messages and materials at both the national and
state levels was often inadequate and the targeting of messages to specific groups was
weak. Many of the messages conveyed no information on how HIV is transmitted or how



16
it can be prevented ("Know AIDS for No AIDS"). n Other messages emphasized fear or
conveyed a moralistic tone ("A weak mind is the first step towards death"). Few staff at
the national level, and fewer at state level, had expertise in the design and implementation
of behavior change campaigns. Moreover, the dearth of research on sexual behavior,
weak surveillance data, and near absence of information regarding the numbers and
location of high-risk groups during the life of the project made it difficult to design and
target awareness or behavior change interventions. The project sponsored some of the
first qualitative research on sexual practices, including a 1995 study launched in several
dozen cities (NACO 1997b). While these were used by some states to improve the design
of EEC campaigns, the results were not widely disseminated (Pelto 1999). Private media
firms were able to design sophisticated campaigns, though often with limited guidance on
message design and targeting. Most fear-based messages were discontinued by the late-
1 990s but may have contributed to the prevailing high levels of stigma against persons
with HIV.
Figure 4: Percent of Ever-married Women 15-49 Who Spontaneously Reported that
Condoms Prevent HIV Transmission
100
90 - --.;..               ; .... ............ . .. . . ...... .. ........... _.............
80   -                                                                       . ....  . .. ...
80
7 0   .  .   .-                                      -   - . . ._     _ _ . . ...... . . .
6 0                                      ..... ... ........... . ... .. ..... ... . . .   ....... . . ....... ... .. ...   . . . .  .. ._. .... .
a 5 0                                                         . ... ... .... .. ... .
4 0   .     . ... ...              . .    .. .  -   . .   . .   .. ... . . ... ... _.. .........  .  _. .....   . ..... ..  .  .... .. .
(L 30 -
20--- - -----*-....._.                 .I.... --.---------.-- -. .. -.- - - - .. - .
30         -         ......... . . . .. ....... --             . .. . ... .... .
0         .   .-.. _ .....   .. .... ....
Tamil Nadu    Delhi     Andhra    Maharashtra West Bengal Uttar Pradesh  National
Pradesh
0C1992-93 (NFHS-1)    * 1998-99 (NFHS-2)
Note: Data for Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were not collected in the NFHS-1
Targeted Interventions for High-Risk Groups
37.    The project fulfilled its objective of piloting high-risk group interventions in a
dozen states and mega-cities. While the majority of NGO interventions financed by the
project for high-risk groups were also for awareness, the project provided direct support
and helped create political "space" for the piloting of interventions, such as condom
distribution and STD treatment, focused on risk groups. The project's reliance on NGOs for
implementing interventions targeted to high-risk groups catalyzed development of a policy
22. Other messages included: "You can't stop warring mothers and daughters-in-law, but you can stop
AIDS" and "Be Aware, Take Care" (slogan from the Tamil Nadu SACS).



17
framework and guidelines for the financing of NGO activities. Bilateral projects provided
complimentary additional financing and technical support for targeted NGO interventions
in selected states.' No information is available regarding the percentage of risk populations
reached during the project, even in the states where these activities were most developed.
However, the activities launched in these states effectively demonstrated to the national
audience of policymakers that targeted interventions could have an impact on behavior
among risk groups in India. The experience helped develop and refine approaches that were
appropriate to the Indian context for wider replication (Ramasundaram and others 2002).
38.   No nationally representative data on the behavior of high-risk groups were
collected during the project. However, the USAID-sponsored APAC project in Tamil
Nadu conducted annual behavioral surveillance surveys of risk groups in urban areas
between 1996 and 2001 (APAC 2002). Between 1996 and the end of the first National
AIDS Control Project in 1999, the percent of truck drivers reporting non-regular sexual
partners or use of commercial sex dropped in half (see Figure 5). Condom use among sex
workers and truck drivers who bought sex rose from already relatively high levels of
roughly 55 percent in 1996 to 80-90 percent by 1999. Since the APAC-sponsored
targeted interventions were not launched until 1997/98, the declines in risk behavior in
1996-98 are likely attributable in part to Tamil Nadu SACS or NACO awareness-raising
activities-although general media coverage of the AIDS issue may also have
contributed. And 1996 levels were no doubt higher than in 1992.
39.   The large share of the condom market attributable to family planning and
uncertainty concerning trends in use of this method make it difficult to discern the
possible impact of AIDS awareness and interventions on condom demand for HIV
prevention. Nationally, condom sales through social marketing increased by 50 percent
during the 1990s. But the increases were offset by a decline in condoms distributed for
free through government facilities (NACO 2001 a). As a result, the total number of
condoms distributed or sold remained unchanged over the course of the project. To the
extent that uptake of socially marketed condoms reflects primarily demand for HIV
protection, the shifting share of socially marketed condoms could be indicative of greater
use of condoms for casual and commercial sex. However, no evidence was presented to
substantiate this conclusion.
23. Donor projects supporting targeted interventions during the 1990s included the USAID-sponsored
AIDS Prevention and Care (APAC) project in Tarnil Nadu; the UK-sponsored Sexual Health Projects in
Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Orissa, and West Bengal, and the DfuD-sponsored Healthy Highways
Project, which targeted truckers.



18
Figure 5: Reduction in Risk Behavior Among High-Risk Groups in Tamil Nadu
Percent of high-risk groups having sex with a non-regular
partner (NRP) or sex worker (SW) in the past 12 months,
Urban Tamil Nadu (Source: APAC survey)
60 -
40  ----  --                        -----  ........---------.... .   ------- . .......
0_
. 1996       1997        1998         1999        2000         2001
Tmuck drivers & helpers-NRP - Male factory wvrers-NRP _Truck drivers & helpers-SW -Male factory woreSW
Percent of High-Risk Group Using Condoms with the Last Non-regular
Partner (NRP) or Sex Worker (SW), Urban Tamil Nadu
100
go                                              . 
80
c 60
~50
40
30
20
10
0
1998         1997        1998         1999        2000         2001
j_  Sex worrem -NRP   _  Trjck drivers & helper-NRP  G   Male factory worers-NRP
Trmck drtvers & heipars-SW  MSe factory vmrkerSW
Source: APAC (2002).
40.     The sentinel surveillance system has monitored HIV prevalence in STD patients,
many of whom are from high-risk groups.24 In Tamil Nadu, with the strongest evidence of
24. Trends in HIV prevalence among STD patients are difficult to interpret because the same behaviors that
might reduce HIV incidence (fewer partners, condom use, STD treatment) would also reduce STD
incidence and the number of STD patients. While it is reassuring to know that the rate of co-infection of
STD patients with HIV stabilized, trends in infection among other high-risk population groups (CSWs,
IDU, truck drivers) are more useful in understanding the dynamics of the epidemic.



19
behavior change, HIV prevalence was high but had stabilized in four of the five high-risk
group sentinel sites by the late-1990s. In Maharashtra, however, HIV prevalence among
CSWs continued to climb rapidly through the mid-1990s, exceeding 50 percent in both
Mumbai and Pune. A study of HIV incidence (the number of new HIV infections per year)
among female STD clinic attendees in Pune in 1993-95 found an annual infection rate of
approximately 26 per hundred person years among CSWs, and 8 per hundred person years
among non-CSWs (Mehendale and others 1995). These high rates of incidence and
prevalence may reflect the high prevalence of risk behavior and relatively low coverage of
CSWs in the state, despite the mobilization of NGOs by the State AIDS Control Cell.
Controlling Sexually Transmitted Diseases
41.   Evidence from India and elsewhere has demonstrated a correlation between the
presence of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and HIV infection-both because the
presence of STDs can facilitate HIV transmission and because they are contracted through
the same risk behaviors. A national STD program was launched in the 1 940s, but suffered
from neglect. At the time of project appraisal STDs were among the top five causes of
morbidity in India (Raamasubban 1998). The project gave renewed attention to STD control,
providing equipment, pharmaceuticals, and training for 504 government STD clinics in
public hospitals, exceeding the original target of 372 clinics. In addition, five regional
referral centers were upgraded to provide training, research, supervision, and monitoring.
The project also facilitated the development and dissemination of the syndromic guidelines
for STD treatment, possibly its most important contribution.25 In interviews with OED,
physicians reported that the guidelines had been adopted in the public sector and to some
extent in the private sector, but there are no data to confirm the extent of adoption or
adherence to syndromic treatment guidelines. Although the majority of component
expenditures focused on government STD clinics-including training for 19,000 medical
officers-approximately 10,000 private doctors also received training in syndromic
management through the Indian Medical Association (IMA).
42.   Unfortunately, there is little evidence on which to judge the impact of this
component. There are no representative data at the national or state level regarding
compliance with these guidelines. The project did little to strengthen STD surveillance,
which remains weak (Hawkes and Santhya 2001). There are no data on the change in
incidence of STDs or the reported number of STD cases over the lifetime of the project.
43.   While this modest component did represent an important invigoration of the STD
control program, there are reasons to believe that its overall impact on STD incidence
was also modest. First, although training was offered to some private practitioners, the
project mostly financed inputs for public sector STD clinics. Yet, fewer than 10 percent
of STD patients seek treatment in the public sector; most seek care from private or
traditional, non-allopathic practitioners, or self-medicate. Government clinics supported
by the project may see as few as a dozen STD patients per month. Second, the project's
approach to both equipment and training was primarily input-oriented, with little
25. Developed by WHO, the syndromic approach to STD treatment is the process by which clinicians
diagnose and treat STDs using standardized protocols based on symptoms (Dalabetta et al 1998).



20
monitoring of the quality and clinical effectiveness of treatment. Finally, while STD
treatment combined with behavior change interventions has been shown to reduce HIV
incidence among high-risk groups, such as CSWs, the project did not explicitly target
these groups for STD treatment. Fourth, behavior change counseling and partner tracing
remain weak (Hawkes and Santhya 2001).
44.   In the final year of the project, the government began to pilot Family Health
Awareness Campaigns, which seek to increase STD awareness and treatment-seeking in
selected communities though "camps" that involve door-to-door awareness raising and,
in some of the communities, STD screening and referral for treatment (Arora and others
2000). The approach has been expanded under the Second AIDS Control Project.
Improving Clinical Management of AIDS
45.   While the overwhelming priority of the project was to enhance awareness and
expand prevention, the project anticipated the need to enhance capacity for treatment and
launched activities to train health providers - most of whom had never encountered an
AIDS case-to identify and clinically manage AIDS patients. NACO developed and
distributed training manuals in AIDS clinical case management. About 45,000 public and
7,500 private physicians received training under the project. NACO and WHO also
jointly developed a training manual for nurses, but only a few states made substantial
progress in nurse training."
46.   Although very large numbers of people received training under the project,
training was of short duration, little attention was placed on the interpersonal skills
required for effective counseling, and there appeared to be little follow-up to assess the
quality and effectiveness of training. NACO had limited capacity to monitor or enforce
adherence to the treatment and counseling protocols or to encourage integration of care
and support into supervision protocols. Although the availability of voluntary HIV
counseling and testing increased under the project, interviews with people living with
HIV/AIDS (PWAs) diagnosed during this period reveal that little counseling occurred
(even in the event of a positive HIV test) and results were often not kept confidential.
Many also reported being given incorrect information by health providers when informed
of their HIV status (for example, that they had only weeks to live or should not touch
their children), and being accused of immoral behavior.
47.   Finally, several proposed studies that would have improved the design and
selection of interventions for treatment and care-such as of the effectiveness of home-
based care, the cost-effectiveness of alternative HIV testing techniques, the natural
history of AIDS in the Indian population, and the effects of homeopathic remedies on
those with HIV-apparently were not undertaken.
26. Manipur, one of the hardest-hit states, trained 60 percent of nurses according to the ICR.



21
Strengthening Surveillance, Monitoring, and Evaluation
48.    Because of the long delay between HIV infection and AIDS, sentinel surveillance
data that show spread of HIV even while the number of AIDS cases is low, provide
extremely important evidence for mobilizing political commitment, as well as for
tracking the epidemic and fine-tuning the response. The first sentinel surveillance sites
for HIV were established in the late 1980s, covering only major cities in the south.27 The
project contributed to improving the coverage and quality of the national HIV sentinel
surveillance system through support for equipment, training, and technical assistance.
The project target was to provide HIV testing capabilities to 100 sites throughout the
country, a subset of which would be used for sentinel surveillance. During the course of
the project, HIV sero-surveillance capacity was developed in 140 centers and 180
sentinel sites nationwide, surpassing this target (see Table 3).
Table 3: Growth in the Number of Sentinel Surveillance Sites, Selected States and
Delhi
1994            1998             2000             2001
Andhra Pradesh          3               7                9               13
Delhi                  0                4               7                9
Maharashtra            4                14              19              25
Tamil Nadu              5               9               11               17
Uttar Pradesh          0                10              13              21
West Bengal             0               8                9               15
National               55              180              232             306
Source: NACO for all national totals and state totals for 2000-2001.
49.    Two factors limited the effectiveness of the sentinel surveillance. First, the
usefulness of sentinel surveillance to enhance political commitment during the project's
lifetime was greatly reduced because of delayed implementation. At the Mid-term
Review, only 29 sentinel sites had been established. The system did not achieve adequate
national coverage until 1998, the last year of the project, after NACO took a more
proactive role in program design and technical support. The states with the greatest
political resolve and that used funds most readily-like Maharashtra, Manipur, and Tamil
Nadu-were those where the number of AIDS cases had already prompted public
concern and surveillance had already been launched. Earlier implementation of sentinel
surveillance in other states might have helped dispel denial earlier, generated stronger
political commitment, and accelerated implementation of the rest of the project's
activities.
50.    Second, HIV surveillance of high-risk populations was and remains inadequate.
At project appraisal, CSW, MSM, IDU, and truckers were identified as high priority for
sentinel surveillance, in addition to patients at STD clinics and populations "without
identified risk", such as antenatal clinic attendees, voluntary blood donors, and
27. The SAR did not mention nor was OED able to confirm the number, type, and location of sentinel
surveillance sites at the time that the project was launched.



22
outpatients. However, virtually all 'high-risk' sites implemented during the project are
STD clinics: Of the 306 sites covered by the 2001 round of sentinel surveillance, 163
were in antenatal clinics, 121 in STD clinics, 13 among IDU, and only 2 each among
CSW and MSM (NACO website 2002). STD patients represent a mix of people with
high-risk and low-risk behavior who, by definition, are not using condoms. Thus, it is
impossible to track the effects of behavior change on HIV levels among STD patients.
The use of results for STD patients as a proxy for high-risk groups can lead to misleading
assessments. For example, HIV prevalence among STD patients in West Bengal in 2001
was less than 1 percent, yet data from researchers have found that over 10 percent of
CSW are infected (USBOC 2002). The project financed sites that are most easily set up -
in public clinics-not those that are most relevant to tracking the epidemic.
51.   The implementation of analytic work and monitoring and evaluation was
unsatisfactory. At appraisal, the need to launch quickly behavioral and epidemiological
studies was emphasized, to serve as a baseline for measuring impact and to improve the
design and evaluate the effectiveness of pilot interventions. Thirteen specific studies were
proposed, of which nine were to take place in the first year of the project. Only a few of the
proposed studies to be undertaken were conducted. The Prevention Indicator Survey (PIS)
in 1996 assessed the knowledge and behavior of the general population in urban and rural
areas of five states (NACO 1997b), but it wasn't until 2001-after the end of the project-
that a national baseline Behavioral Surveillance Survey (BSS) was conducted (NACO
2001c). The methodology was so different between the two surveys that the results for
most variables cannot be compared and there is effectively no benchmark against which to
measure progress during the first project. A study of high-risk behavior practices was
conducted in May 1995 in 65 cities, but results were eventually written up for only 18.
There were no evaluations of the cost-effectiveness of the project's interventions; a study
of the cost-effectiveness of CSW interventions in the Sonagachi project in Calcutta was
never completed. Of the nine studies conducted during the entire project listed in the ICR,
only two could be located during the OED mission. In the states visited by OED, there was
no system for the evaluation of NGO interventions financed by the first project.
52.   Further, the sentinel surveillance results and reports generated by the project have
not been sufficiently disseminated or available to the public, reducing their usefulness in
improving the effectiveness of the response and informing the public. The 1996
Prevention Indicator Survey report has not been posted on the web, nor are the datasets
for the PIS or the 2001 BSS available for analysis by researchers. Further analyses of the
original 2001 BSS data could yield valuable insights into the determinants of levels of
awareness and behavior, with implications for improving program design. Sentinel
surveillance results are not posted on the NACO web site except in a summary form for
all sites of a given type by state for the most recent year. The value of sentinel
surveillance data is in tracking trends in the same population over time; they are not
meant to be representative of any of the populations. To be meaningful, researchers need
access to trends for multiple rounds by site within each state.
EFFICIENCY
53.   Efficiency is not evaluable. In principle, the project financed a number of
interventions that are cost-effective. However, the lack of a monitoring and evaluation



23
system make it impossible to assess the efficiency or cost-effectiveness of the
interventions as implemented.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
54.   Institutional development impact is rated substantial. The project established and
refined the institutional framework at the central and state level for the national response
to HIV/AIDS. The evolution of State AIDS Control Cell to State AIDS Control Society
significantly improved the timeliness of decentralized disbursement of project resources.
Dialogue associated with the project led to the modification of a number of key national
policies. While the extent of NGO involvement was limited in relation to the size of the
country and the task, the project launched important capacity.building activities to
strengthen the NGO response and made substantial resources available for NGOs.
Procedures were developed and refined for the vetting, selection, and monitoring of
NGOs. Capacity was also built among government officials and health providers through
the project's training programs.
55.   A main shortcoming of the project's design that slowed institutional development
was that it severely underestimated the need to provide technical support and capacity
building at the national, state, and NGO levels. HIV/AIDS was a new disease that
required a different approach than previous disease control programs -infection is
"invisible", AIDS develops after many years, there is no cure, and issues of private
behavior must be addressed to effectively prevent the infection. Yet, NACO was
conceived of as a coordinating body with relatively few technical staff. Thus, for
example, while NACO is responsible within the MOHFW for the national STD control
program, it did not and still does not employ a full-time STD specialist. Technical
capacity was even more limited at the state level. The technical specialists funded by
WHO/GPA, together with experts from the CDC, were too few to provide regular
implementation support to the states. The project helped establish a number of Technical
Resource Groups, but the terms of reference were never clearly defined, funding was
limited, most of the groups met infrequently, and staff in SACCs and NGOs did not know
how to access their expertise. Finally, although NACO and the Cells/Societies provided
some training for NGOs-particularly to help them develop proposals-the state AIDS
Cells/Societies did not have sufficient capacity to provide ongoing technical support and
capacity building for NGOs (although in some states, bilateral programs-financed by
USAID or DfID-provided both direct financing and extensive technical support to
NGOs). These weaknesses still have not been fully remedied in the second project.
56.   Staff turnover at the national and particularly the state level is detracting from
building and sustaining capacity, however. While IAS officers are perceived to be
excellent managers, their tenure is often short. Since 1994, for exanple, the six Project
Directors for the Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society (TNSACS) had an average tenure of
only 16 months (range from 5 to 27 months). IAS officers generally have no technical
background or previous experience in HIV/AIDS activities. With such short tenure, the
Project Directors leave the program just as they have learned enough to be most effective.
Turnover is not exclusive to IAS officers: there have been 8 Project Directors for the
Andhra Pradesh SACC/SACS in 10 years, only two of them IAS, with nearly identical



24
tenure as the TNSACS. High turnover resulted in considerable loss of institutional
memory and reduced the scope for learning from experience.
SUSTAINABILITY
57.   Project sustainability is rated likely. The Second India National AIDS Control
Project ($229.8 million, 2001-2004) has built upon the lessons and accomplishments of
the first project, and further strengthened the institutional framework for the response.
While the majority of funding for the national HIV/AIDS program continues to come
from the IDA credit, the national govermment has steadily increased its contribution and
spent more than planned. Additional resources have been forthcoming from DFID,
USAID, and CIDA during the second project period, and more recently from the Gates
Foundation ($100 million) and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria
*($26 million for AIDS over the next two years with a five year maximum of $100
million). Evidence from expanded epidemiological and behavioral surveillance as well as
the growing number of AIDS cases in the most affected states and major cities has
weakened denial and helped strengthen political support for HIV/AIDS prevention and
control. To the extent that it exists, uncertainty about sustainability hinges on whether
the huge increase in resources will out-strip the institutional capacity to manage and
implement these finds effectively at the national, state, and local level. The government
and other donors are effectively relying on the same pool of NGO capacity for
implementation; thus, continued investment in increasing NGO and local capacity is
critical to sustaining the response.
OUTCOME
58.   Due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation in this project, including the lack of
baseline information, OED was not able to estimate the number of HIV infections averted -
the project's broad objective. However, based on interviews with stakeholders in the field,
OED found that this project likely advanced by several years the government response to
HIV/AIDS, relative to the counterfactual of no project, and largely put in place the
institutional mechanisms at the national and state level on which a broader response could
be launched. In addition, the project greatly improved the safety of the blood supply and
succeeded in establishing nation-wide epidemiological surveillance of HIV. The project
also enlisted the mass media and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to increase
awareness of HIV/AIDS; piloted prevention interventions targeting groups at high risk of
spreading HIV (commercial sex workers, truck drivers, intravenous drug users); and trained
thousands of health providers in HIV/AIDS/STD care and prevention. The impact of these
latter interventions is difficult to gauge due to the lack of baseline, output and outcome data
during the life of the project. The strong institutional base built by the end of the project
helped mobilize additional financial and technical support from other international partners.
59.   Although there are promising signs of behavior change among those engaged in
risky behavior, awareness of AIDS among the general population has not been
sufficiently accompanied by specific knowledge of how HIV is and is not transmitted and
the project did not address sufficiently public attitudes toward people in high-risk groups
and those living with HIV/AIDS. The project greatly overestimated the capacity of



25
NGOs to design and implement HIV/AIDS interventions. Consequently, in most states a
smaller percentage of risk groups than anticipated were reached. There is a continuing
need to build implementation capacity among NGOs and all levels of government if the
quality of the response and its coverage is to be enhanced. Finally, aside from the
successful implementation of nation-wide epidemiological surveillance of HIV in the last
year of the project, monitoring and evaluation was unsatisfactory. The design and
ultimate effectiveness of public infotnation campaigns and pilot interventions would
have been greatly enhanced had the project invested in collecting the planned baseline
data on attitudes, behavior, and HIV levels in the general population and key groups at
the start of the project. OED believes that availability of critical information on
nationwide patterns of HIV prevalence and risk behavior earlier in the project's life also
would have been helpful in generating stronger political commitment and earlier action,
preventing many more infections. Nevertheless, as a start-up investment for the national
HIV/AIDS response, project outcome is rated satisfactory.
Table 4. Summary OED Ratings of Outcome by Objective
Major Objective                                         Importance*         Outcome
Involve states and union territories in developing HIV/AIDS
preventive activities with a special focus on the major
epicenters of the epidemic                                 High            Satisfactory
Attain a "satisfactory level" of public awareness on HIV     .              Moderately
transmission and prevention                                High            Satisfactory
Develop health promotion interventions among risk behavior  Substantial     Moderately
groups in some states                                                      Satisfactory
Screen the majority of blood units collected for blood
transfusions, and decrease the practice of professional blood
donations                                                  High            Satisfactory
Develop skills in clinical management, health education and
counseling, and psycho-social support to HIV sero-positive                  Moderately
persons, AIDS patients, and their associates              Modest          Unsatisfactory
Strengthen the control of sexually transmitted diseases   Modest            Moderately
(STDs)                                                                     Satisfactory
Monitor the development of the H1V/AIDS epidemic in the                     Moderately
country                                                  Substantial       Satisfactory
* Importance is judged by the priority accorded to the objective in project design, based both on the project
description and the amount of funds allocated.
BANK PERFORMANCE
60.    The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with
international partners to convince the government to borrow for HIV/AIDS prevention
while the country was still in the early stage of the epidemic, AIDS was invisible to most
policymakers, denial was high and there was little support for preventive measures beyond
improving the safety of the blood supply. The Bank established good working relationships
with government and international partners and helped mobilize additional funds through
donors. During supervision, it provided good technical advice (both through Bank staff and
through the CDC) and maintained continuity in the project team. Policy dialogue and



26
conditions contributed to several important changes, including improved condom quality,
increased political commitment, and legislation to reduce discrimination.
61.   A major shortcoming in Bank performance-noted by a range of stakeholders,
particularly outside government-was the failure to ensure monitoring or accountability
for project outcomes, as opposed to project outputs and disbursement. In addition, more
attention could have been devoted to research on the nature and scope of the epidemic, as
well as to the cost-effectiveness of the interventions that were piloted. Some promising
initiatives were launched-including a study of the cost-effectiveness of CSW
interventions in Calcutta-but they were not completed. Finally, in retrospect, the Bank
underestimated the institutional challenges and capacity building involved in
implementing a comprehensive HIV/AIDS program in a challenging context, including
the need for technical assistance. However, the Bank was not alone in this respect; similar
miscalculations were made by other donors and agencies involved in the response.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
62.   Borrower performance is also rated satisfactory overall. Despite reluctance in
some quarters, the government deserves credit for borrowing to expand HIV/AIDS
prevention when it seemed invisible because few were yet dying from the disease.
National political commitment was mixed through much of the project, but appears to
have steadily strengthened during the final two years of implementation. There was
heterogeneity in the performance of states; the states most affected by the virus were
among the stronger responders. However, HIV/AIDS activities are still not well
integrated into non-health ministries and are even not well integrated into family planning
programs. Police harassment of outreach workers continues to hinder prevention
interventions among risk groups, and the govermment has been reluctant to change
legislation that has provided justification for such harassment (including anti-sodomy
laws). Financial management was a weakness through much of project implementation--
particularly at the state level, contributing to delays.28
Lessons
63.   The first National HIV/AIDS Control Project was a critical start-up investment to
put in place the mechanisms for the response. Project experiences suggest many lessons
relevant to the HIV/AIDS response in India and elsewhere, of which OED highlights a
few of the most prominent.
Building robust institutions requires substantial innovation andflexibility. The
original design of the project called for establishing a National AIDS Control
Authority that would have functioned as an autonomous parastatal. However, as it
became evident that Parliament would not approve such an arrangement, a
compromise was struck that led to creation of NACO, a high-level semi-autonomous
body under the MOHFW headed by a Director with the status of an Additional
Secretary. Likewise, the eventual adoption of the "society" model for State AIDS
28. Reimbursements were suspended in Tamil Nadu briefly.



27
control activities greatly reduced the administrative impediments to timely project
implementation.
* Epidemiological and behavioral surveillance provide key information to build
support for the response in countries where denial is high and the epidemic is
otherwise "invisible. " Epidemiological evidence to establish the potential scope of
the epidemic in India was thin during most of the life of the project. The states with
the strongest commitment and response were those where the number of AIDS cases
was mounting (Maharashtra, Manipur, Tamil Nadu). The additional information
provided by the first national round of HIV surveillance in the last year of the project
was a catalyst and turning point for political commitment in some states where HIV
had spread, but the number of AIDS deaths was small. Had these activities occurred
earlier, political commitment might have developed earlier in several key states. They
also would have provided a baseline for measuring the accomplishments of the
project, demonstrated more clearly the feasibility of effective responses, and have
enabled fine-tuning of project activities.
* Projects that seek to enlist NGOs to implement HI V/AIDS interventions need to
carefully assess NGO capacity in light of what is expected, and to ensure continuous
training and technical support. The Bank, the government, and others in the
international community overestimated local implementation capacity. While NGOs
may in principle have a comparative advantage in spreading AIDS awareness or in
reaching high-risk groups, their capacity for doing so may be weak. The mere existence
of well-established development NGOs in the social welfare sector did not ensure the
skills or capacity to quickly shift to HIV/AIDS interventions sometimes targeted to
non-traditional groups. The lack of training and technical support to NGOs during
project start-up delayed the implementation and expansion of project activities. While
the project made major headway in terms of the selection and vetting of NGOs,
capacity for monitoring and evaluation of NGO activities remains extremely weak.
* When political commitment is heterogeneous in a decentralized system, channeling
resources to effective programs in areas with the highest commitment can serve as
a powerful demonstration of the localfeasibility of otherwise controversial
programs. The project management's decision to channel funds to the states most
able and willing to use them facilitated the development of indigenous "models" or
"pilots" of key interventions, with lessons for states that lagged, as well as
institutional models (like the Tamil Nadu "society" model) better suited to rapid
implementation of the project.
* Targeted awareness and interventions for high-risk groups can be successful only
to the exctent that complementary efforts are launched to improve the environment
for HIVprevention among these groups. The project focused on implementing
specific IEC and technical interventions for high-risk groups. But in a number of
cases NGOs reported that harassment by police made it difficult to work effectively
and drove members of the beneficiary groups underground. Gradually, the states are
coming to realize that law enforcement must be sensitized and informed of the public
health benefits of the interventions for groups that are engaging in otherwise illegal



28
activities, so that they cease counter-productive enforcement actions, the NGOs can
do their jobs, and those at highest risk are enabled to engage in safer behavior.
* Campaigns to increase awareness of HIV/AIDS and promote behgavior change
must be informed by local research on behavior and attitudes in their design and
implementation and in such as way as to reduce stigma ofpeople living with
HIV/AIDS.
* Where a majority of clients seek STD treatment in the private sector (as is often the
case with se-xually transmitted diseases), engaging private and even traditional non-
allopathic practitioners is likely to be necessary to ensure coverage and impact.
Future Directions
64.   While HIV/AIDS has likely spread less than it would have in the absence of the
project, it nevertheless has continued to spread, albeit unevenly, throughout India. The
results of the 2001 round of sentinel surveillance found six states in which HIV infection
had reached high levels among STD patients and surpassed one percent of women
attending antenatal clinics-Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Manipur,
Nagaland, and Tamil Nadu. In these states, where the epidemic started somewhat sooner,
infection is mounting and so is the number of people living with HIV/AIDS in need of
health care. In other states and union territories HIV has spread among high-risk groups,
but not into the general population, while in a large number the epidemic has not yet
taken off even among CSWs and IDUs, where it is likely to appear first. In 2001, roughly
75 percent of sex workers and their clients reported using condoms during their most
recent sexual contact. But "consistent" condom use among CSWs and paying clients in
the last month is lower - about 50 percent - and with non-paying partners lower still (21
percent) (NACO 2001c).
65.   Certain priorities remain relevant for all states, irrespective of the stage of the
epidemic:
* Expanding correct knowledge in the population concerning specific ways that HIV is
spread and how to prevent it;
* Building and sustaining government and NGO capacity to implement, monitor, and
evaluate programs;
* Refining the procedures for vetting and funding projects and improving the
transparency of the process;
*  Improving the reliability of funding flows, reducing uncertainty of funding levels, and
improving the timeliness of release of resources to SACS and NGOs;
* Expanding the coverage of behavior change interventions to high-risk groups, while
improving the quality of services;



29
Investing in baseline surveys and analytic work that will help to design, evaluate, and
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of programs, and disseminating results.
66.   In the states with the most advanced epidemics and mounting numbers of AIDS
patients, programs need to urgently improve the access of people living with HIV/AIDS
(PWAs) to cost-effective medical care. Interviews with PWAs and visits to AIDS wards,
together with data and reports from a variety of sources, indicated that many PWAs lack
access to even the most basic health care and continue to be subject to discrimination and
stigma by health care providers as well as family, co-workers, and neighbors (Dube 2000;
Hawkes and Santhya 2002; Jain 2002). These states will want to conduct surveys of
public and private provider knowledge, attitudes, and practices toward treatment of AIDS
patients, and of the type and quality of treatment that AIDS patients are receiving, as the
basis for assessing what improvements are necessary. Thus, both care and reducing
discrimination against people with AIDS are urgently needed.
67.   The states that have not yet felt the brunt of the epidemic, where infection rates
are still low, cannot be complacent. Experience globally and in India shows that HIV can
and will spread wherever it can. These areas have an opportunity to act early, spread
awareness, and enable those at high risk to adopt safer behavior, preventing a widespread
epidemic. In these areas, expanding coverage of behavior change interventions is critical,
as is continuous sensitization of policymakers to the urgency and priority of the task.
68.   The Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project ($229.8 million) was approved
in 1999, financed by an IDA credit of $191 million and a government contribution of
$38.8 million, covering the period 1999-2004. The Second Project addresses many of
these issues, by seeking to: expand the coverage of targeted interventions to high-risk
populations; increase access to voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) centers and
quality of IEC for the general population; improve access to low-cost care for people
living with HIV/AIDS; enhance technical and managerial capacity; and promote multi-
sectoral responses. The project design also calls for strengthening monitoring and
evaluation. The Mid-term Review is scheduled for June 2003.
Recommendations
69.   In addition to the general priorities noted above, the OED evaluation recommends
that the second project address a number of specific issues highlighted by this review of
the first project:
*  Improve the environment for behavior change among high-risk populations by
sensitizing law enforcement to the need for HIV prevention;
*  Establish mechanisms to ensure that national and state-sponsored behavior change
campaigns are based on rigorous research and are subject to regular monitoring and
evaluation;
*  Reduce the discrimination faced by HIV-positive persons, starting with the medical
profession, and ensure the involvement of PWAs in the policy dialogue;



30
* Provide incentives to extend the tenure of Project Directors to at least 3 years, to
reduce their turnover and improve effectiveness;
* Improve the dissemination of the results of analytic work and ensure access of
researchers to raw epidemiological and behavioral datasets (like the BSS) for
additional analysis, to improve the effectiveness or targeting of programs; and
* Put in place a results-based monitoring framework that will shift the focus from
achieving output targets to monitoring progress toward agreed outcomes and to the
quality of interventions.



31                              References
References
AIDS Prevention and Control Project (APAC). 2002. High Risk Behavior Surveillance Survey in
Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry, Voluntary Health Services, Chennai, with support from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
Arora, N.K. and others. 2000. Family Health Awareness Campaign: Process Evaluation (New Delhi:
All India Institute of Medical Sciences).
Asthana, Sheena. 1996. "AIDS-Related Policies, Legislation and Programme Implementation in India,
Health Policy and Planning, 11(2): 184-197.
Balk, Deborah and Subrata Lahiri. 1997. "Awareness and knowledge of AIDS among Indian women:
evidence from 13 states," Health Transition Review; 7 Supp: 421-465
Bowers, Gerard R., K.C. Malhotra, Eliot Putnam, Jr., and Rajani Ved. 2000. Midterm Evaluation:
AIDS Prevention and Control Project (APA C). Washington, D.C.: The Synergy Project, TvT
Associates, Inc., subrnitted to USAID/India under contract No. HRN-C-00-99-00005-00. May
2000.
Chatterjee, N. 1999. "AIDS-Related Information Exposure in the Mass Media and Discussion within
Social Networks among Married Women in Bombay, India," AIDS Care; 11 (4): 443-446.
Dalabetta, G., A. Gerbase, and K. Holmes. 1998. "Problems, Solutions, and Challenges in Syndromic
Management of Sexually Transrnitted infections". Sexually Transmitted Infections 74, Suppl
1: SI-S1l.
Dube, Siddarth. 2000. Sex, Lies and AIDS. (HarperCollins: New Delhi).
Eberstadt, Nicholas. 2002. "The Future of AIDS." Foreign Affairs; 81(6): 22-45.
Friedman, Robert. 1996. "India's Shame: Sexual Slavery and Political Corruption Are Leading to an
AIDS Catastrophe," The Nation, April 8, New York.
Haniffa, Aziz. 1994. "Shankaranand Denies Reports of an AIDS Epidemic in India," Economic Times;
July 10: Delhi.
Hawkes, Sarah, and K.G. Santhya. 2001. "Diverse Realities: Understanding Sexually Transmitted
Infections and HIV in India," Population Council, Regional Working Papers (No. 15), New
Delhi.
Human Rights Watch (HRW). 2002. "Epidemic of Abuse: Police Harassment of HIV/AIDS Outreach
Workers in India." Human Rights Watch. July: 14 (5C) 3-33.
International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS). 1994. National Family Health Survey 1992-
1993: Introductory Report (Bombay).
International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS). 2000. Nationai Family Health Survey (NFHS-2)
1998-99 (Bombay).
Jain, Kalpana. 2002. Positive Lives: The Story of Ashok and Others with HIV (Penguin Books: New
Delhi).
Jayaraman, K.S. 1988. "Drastic measures proposed in India". Nature 333: 697.
Lancet, The (Editorial). 2001. "Time for India to Act on AIDS," The Lancet; 1(3): 137.
Mehendale, S.M., J.J. Rodrigues, R.S. Brookmeyer and others. 1995. "Incidence and Predictors of
Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 Seroconversion in Patients Attending Sexually
Transmitted Disease Clinics in India," Journal of Infectious Diseases; 172 (6): 1486-91.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 2003. Website: www.naco.nic.in.



32                              References
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 2002. National Baseline High Risk and Bridge
Population Behavioral Surveillance Survey, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
Government of India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 200 la. Combating HIV/AIDS in India: 2000-2001,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 200 lb. National AIDS Prevention and Control Policy,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 200 1c. National Baseline General Population
Behavioral Surveillance Survey, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of
India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 2000. Combating HIIAIDS in India: 1999-2000,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 1999. Country Scenario: 1999-2000, Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 1997a. "Prevention Indicators Survey of Five States of
India (1996-1997)," Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New
Delhi.
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 1997b. "A Summary of the Findings of the High Risk
Behavior Study From 18 Cities," Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of
India, New Delhi (mimeo).
National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). 1996. Guidelines for the Appropriate Use of Blood,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
Pelto, Peri. 1999. "Sexuality and Sexual Behavior: The Current Discourse," in Implementing a
Reproductive Health Agenda in India, Saroj Pachauri, ed. (Population Council: New Delhi).
Ramasubban, Radhika. 1998. "HIV/AIDS in India: Gulf Between Rhetoric and Reality," Economic
and Political Weekly, November 7 (2865-2872), New Delhi.
Ramasundaram, S., K. Allaudin, Bimal Charles, and others. 2002. "HIV/AIDS Control in India:
Lessons from Tamil Nadu," Paper No: WG-5: 25, WHO's Commission on Macroeconomics
and Health, World Health Organization, Geneva.
Sethi, Geeta. 1999. "Government Response to HIV/AIDS," in Implementing a Reproductive Health
Agenda in India (Population Council: New Delhi).
Sharma V, Dave S, Sharma A, Chauhan P. 1997. "Condoms: Mis-Use = Non-Use. The Condom
Equation in Gujarat, India." AIDS Care. December 1997: 707-713.
Stimson, Gerry V. 1996. "Drug injecting and the spread of HIV infection in Southeast Asia". In L.
Sherr, J. Catalan, and B. Hedge, eds. The Impacts ofAIDS: Psychological and Social Aspects
ofHIVInfection. Reading, UK: Harwood Academnic.
U.S. Bureau of the Census. 2002. HIVIAIDS Surveillance Database. Population Division,
Intemational Programs Center, Washington, D.C. June 2002.



33                                        Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data
INDIA NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROJECT (CREDIT 2350)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               99.6              113.3                  114
Loan amount                                                          84.0
Cancellation                                                         0%
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY93      FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98       FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            12.2      20.1     20.3      16.3      14.6      0.5       0.0
Formally Revised                     9.14      5.69     7.13      9.39     20.39     16.88     15.51
Actual (US$M)                        8.99      5.70     7.67      9.86     20.36     16.03     15.56
Actual as % of appraisal              74       28        38        60       139       -          -
Date of final disbursement: September 7, 1999
Data obtained from the Integrated Controller's System
Due to rounding and the use of different exchange rates, figures my no fully match the disbursements record In GOI's
report.
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                           08/30/91
(IEPS review)
Appraisal                                              10/17/91                      10/16/91
Negotiations                                                                         02/19/92
Signing                                                                              04/24/92
Effectiveness                                          09/91*                        09/21/92
Mid-term Review                                        03/31/95                      11/03/95
Project completion                                     03/31/97                      09/30/98
Closing date                                           09/30/97                      03/31/99
* Dates obtained from MOP
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                         Planned                               Actual
Staff Weeks        US$ ('000)        Staff Weeks         US$ ('000)
Preappraisal to appraisal                -                                   18.6               59.1
Appraisal                                _                  _                44.7              132.2
Negotiations through Board approval      -                  -                12.3               36.2
Supervision*                                                                134.8              422.8
Completion*                             18.0              68.0                4.0               18.2
Total                                   18.0               68.0             214.4              668.5
* Infornation available from FACT only for FY96-FY98.



34                                       Annex A
Mission Data
Date      No. of     staff   Specializations   Performance raib        Types of
days in                     Perforinanrebrams
(monthlyear) persons    fleld    represented'                             problems
Implementation Development
status     Objectives
Preparabon through                                                  TM, SPHS, P   SINGYUAN      n/a
appraisal                                                                             n/a
Appraisal through       10/91                40                                       n/a        n/a
Board approval
Board approval         03/92                                                         n/a        n/a
through effectiveness  09/92
Supervision 1           08/92       3        12     TM, SPHS, P,         2            1
PHS
Supervision 2           08/93       9        14     TM, SPHS, P, SS,     1            1
PHS, AC
Supervision 3          08/94        7        14     TM, SPHS, P, SS,     S            S
PHS, AC
Supervision 4          06/95        1         0     TM
Supervision 5           12/95       7        35     TM, SPHS, P, SS,     S            S
PHS, HE, LEG,
AC
Supervision 6          05/96        1         0     TM                   S            S
Supervision 7           11/96       1        24     TM/PHS               S            S
Supervision 8           06/97       1         0     TM                   S            S           Cl
Supervision 9          01/98        4        11     TM, PPHS, P,         S            S
SS, PHS
Supervision 10         05/98        1         0     TM                  HS            S
Supervision 11         08/98        1        17     TM, PPHS, P,        HS            S
SS, PHS
Supervision 12 and     02/99        5        12     TM, PPHS, P,        HS            S
Implementation                                      FMS, OA, AA
Completion Report
a. TM = Task Manager; SS = Social ScienUist; SPHS = Sr. Public Health Specialist; PPHS = Principal Public Health
Specialist; PHS = Public Health Speclalist; P = Procurement Specialist; AC = AIDS Coordinator; HE = Health Economist;
FMS = Financial Management Specialist; OA = Operations Analyst; AA = Administrative Assistant.
b. The earlier performance ratings were based on a numbered system.
c. Due to audit delays largely involving Tamil Nadu, Disbursements against SOEs were suspended on June 5, 1997.



35                            Annex B
Annex B. Persons Consulted
WASHINGTON, D.C.
WORLD BANK
Dr. Salim Habayeb, Lead Health Specialist (former Task Manager, India AIDS I)
Mr. Prabhat Jha (former Task Manager, India HIV/AIDS II)
Mr. Mead Over, Lead Economist, Health, DECRG
Mr. Richard Skolnik (former Sector Manager)
Mr. Heinz Vergin (forrner India Country Director)
OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS (OUTSIDE INDIA)
Ms. Joanne Csete, Human Rights Watch, New York
Mr. Siddarth Dube, UNICEF, New York
Dr. Michael Merson, Dean, Yale School of Public Health (former Director, WHO/Global
Programme on AIDS)
Dr. John Narkunas, Blood Safety Specialist, US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
Dr. Sam Perry, Chief STD/HIV, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Dr. Lyle Petersen, Chief, Surveillance, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Dr. Swarup Sarkar, UNAIDS Intercountry Technical Adviser for South Asia, Bangkok
Ms. Liz Williams, Doctoral Candidate
NEW DELHI
WORLD BANK
Dr. Peter Heywood, Lead Health Specialist
Mr. Chris Hoban, Senior Operations Advisor
Dr. K. Sudhakar, Senior Health Specialist, Task Manager, HIV/AIDS II, and former
manager of the USAID-funded AIDS Prevention and Control Project in Tamil Nadu
Ms. Suneeta Singh, Senior Public Health Specialist
G.N.V. Ramana, Senior Public Health Specialist
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL ORGANISATION (NACO)
Ms. Meenakshi Datta Ghosh, Additional Secretary and Project Director
Dr. P.L. Joshi, Additional Project Director
Mr. Navreet'Singh Kang, Director, Finance
Mr. Pratik Kumar, Deputy Director (EEC) and NGO Coordinator
Dr. A. S. Rathore, Joint Director (Training)
Dr. P. Salil, Joint Director (Blood Safety)
Dr. V.N. Sardana
Dr. Mohammed Shaukat, Deputy Director (Technical)



36                            Annex B
OTHER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Mr. P.R. Dasgupta. Member, Telecom Disputes Settlement & Appellate Tribunal
(Former Director of NACO, 1991-95)
Mr. Prasada Rao, Secretary, Family Welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(Former NACO director)
Mr. S. Ramasundaram, Joint Secretary, Department of Commerce (Former Director of
Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society)
DELHI STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Mr. N.C. Ray, Project Director
Dr. Bhatia, Deputy Director and Medical Officer
Mr. R. Pande, Finance Officer
Mr. Kaushik, Finance Manager
RESEARCHERS/ INSTITUTES
Mr. Lester F. Coutinho, Researcher
Dr. Heiner Grosskurth, Head, HIV/STI Prevention and Care Research Programme,
Population Council
Dr. Indrani Gupta, Institute for Economic Research.
Ms. Vaishali Sharma Mahendra, Population Council
Dr. Saroj Pachauri, Regional Director. Population Council - South & East Asia Regional
Office
Prof. Mohan Rao, Department of Community Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University
Mr. Ravi Verma, Population Council
NGOs
Dr. Priyam Vada Chatturvedi, Secretary, Drishtikon
Dr. Bitra George, Program Manager (Technical), Family Health International
Ms. Kalpana Jain, Special Correspondent, The Times of India
Dr. Rajesh Kumar, Executive Director, Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses
Dr. A. Rajatashuvra, Senior Research Officer. Family Health International
Dr. Asha Rao, Country Programme Director, India HIV/AIDS Alliance
Mr. Luke Sampson, Director, SHARON
Dr. Saraswathi Sankaran, Executive Director. Deepam Educational Society for Health
(DESH)
Ms. Geeta Savant, The Naz Foundation (India) Trust
Ms. Carol Squire, Country Director, Population Services International
Rtn. (Dr.) Rajiv Tandon, Consultant Pediatrician
DONORS
Mr. Fran;ois M. Farah, UNFPA Representative
Dr. Prakash Gurnani, Programme Officer-Health & Nutrition, UNICEF



37                             Annex B
Dr. Sanjay Kapur, Project Management Specialist, Office of Population, Health &
Nutrition, USAID
Mr. M.K. Padma Kumar, Programme Officer, DFID
Dr. David Miller, Country Programme Adviser, UNAIDS
Bethanne Moskov, Team Leader, Infectious Disease, Office of Population, Health &
Nutrition, USAID
Mr. K. Pradeep, Strategic Planning Officer, UNAIDS
Dr. Dora Warren, Director, Global AIDS Program, US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
Mr. Desmond Whyms, Health Adviser, DFID
ANDEIRA PRADESH
ANDHRA PRADESH STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Ms. K. Damayanthi, Project Director
Dr. C. Surya Kumari, Deputy Director
Mr. S.D. Madhukar, NGO Advisor
Dr. M.V. Ramana Rao, Joint Director
Mr. T. Gopal Singh, Deputy Director, IEC
Mr. R. Tyagaraju, Deputy Director, Public Relations
Ms. M.L. Nagamani Amnmal, Retired Project Director, AP AIDS Cell
Dr. B. Nandraj Singh, Director of Health and Family Welfare, Retired Project Director,
APAIDS Cell
NGOs
Mr. G. Manoj, SMA, Andhra Pradesh. Hindustan Latex Ltd.
Dr. Dinesh Raj Mathur, Prof & Head, Dept. of Microbiology, Osmania Medical College
Mr. P. Srinivas, Coordinator, Counselor, Nrityanjali Academy (Sociocultural
Organisation)
Mr. P. Venkateshwar Reddy, Coordinator, Rahul's Medical & Health Services Society
MAHARASHTRA
MAHARASHTRA STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Dr. Subhash Salunke, Project Director and Director General of Health Services
Dr. Deshpande, Chief Officer for Sentinel Surveillance, STDs, and Training
Ratnakar Khaire, NGO Advisor
MUMBAI DISTRICT AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Dr. Alka Gogate, Project Director



38                             Annex B
DONORS
Mr. K. Vaidyanathan, Program Director, AVERT Project (USAID)
NGOS
Mr. Shaskant Bansode, Project Director, John Paul Slum Development Project
Dr. S. D. M. Bhadkamkar, Director, Sevadham Trust
Dr. Nitin Bora, Kayakalp
Dr. Ranjan Darwekhar, AIDS Theatre Group
Mr. Vivek Divan, Legal Consultant/Coordinator, Lawyers Collective HIV/AIDS Unit
Dr. R. R. Gangakhedkar, Assistant Director, National AIDS Research Institute, Indian
Council of Medical Research
Mr. Anand Grover, Advocate, Director HIV/AIDS Unit, LC Associates
Dr. S. K. Hira, Director, ARCON
Mr. Manoj, Network of Maharastra People Living with HIV/AIDS (NMP+)
Mr. Shivade Mitiu Mohan, Manas Vyasanmukh Kendra Mashik
Mr. George Swamy, President, John Paul Slum Development Project
Ms. Aparna Tamharkar, We Need You Society
Ms. Seema Waghmode, Kayakalp
TAMIL NADU
TAMIL NADU STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Mr. R. Christodas Gandhi, Project Director
Mr. K. Allaudin (Former Project Director Dec 1, 1997-Jan 1, 2000)
Dr. R. Murali, Professor, Institute of Community Medicine (former Deputy Director for
Sentinel Surveillance)
Dr. K. Palanichamy, Deputy Director for STDs
Mr. A. Sebastian Jayaraj, NGO Coordinator
DONORS
Dr. Bimal Charles, Project Director, AIDS Prevention and Control Project
(APAC)/Voluntary Health Services (funded by USAID)
NGOs
Mr. A.J. Hariharan, Secretary, Indian Community Welfare Organisation (ICWO)
Ms. Sayamala Nataraj, Secretary, South India AIDS Action Programme (SIAAP)
Mr. A. Purushothaman, Secretary, Kalaiselvi Karunalaya Social Welfare Society (KKSS)
Ms. Semeda, Programme Coordinator, Madras Christian Council of Social Service
(MCCSS)



39                             Annex B
UTTAR PRADESH
UTTAR PRADESH STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Sh. Bachittar Singh, Project Director
Prof. Manoj Ajarwan, Advisor
Mr. Ashutosh, Director, Training, and NGO Advisor
Dr. S.K. Chakravarty, Joint Director, Blood Safety/DDO
Dr. R.P. Mathur, Assistant Director, Sentinel Surveillance and Procurement
Dr. R.P. Pathak, Deputy. Director, Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Mr. Anant Vijay Singh, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
NGOs
Ajit Banerjee, Project Coordinator, Healthy Highways Project, Sarvajan,
Vinod Kumar Singh, UP Voluntary Health Association
T.N. Srivastrana, Senior Project Coordinator, Sarvajan
WEST BENGAL
WEST BENGAL STATE AIDS CONTROL SOCIETY
Mr. S. Suresh Kumar, Project Director.
Ms. Aparjita Dhar, Deputy NGO Officer
Dr. Surjit Kumar Ojha, Deputy Director
Mr. Trilochan Singh, Finance and Accounts, West Bengal State Electricity Board
DONORS
Mr. Shumon Sengupta, Representative to West Bengal, British Deputy High Commission
NGOs
Dr. Rakesh Agarwal, Bhoruka Public Welfare Trust
Mr. Sujit Datta, Association of Voluntary Blood Donors (AVBDWB)
Mr. K. Kanar, SAVE
Mr. Tarun Maiti, Manager, West Bengal Voluntary Health Association
Mr. S.K. Mitra. SAVE
Mr. Biswajit Panda, Bhoruka Public Welfare Trust
Mr. Satyaban Ranjit, Chittaranjan Welfare and Research Centre
Mr. Debabrata Ray, Association of Voluntary Blood Donors (AVBDWB)
Mr. Partha Roy, CNI-ASHA






41                                  Annex C
Annex C. Project Financing by Component
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Components                            (US$ 000)                      (US$ 000)
IDA    WHO    GOI     Total   IDA    WHO     GOI    Total
Strengthening Program        5,990   565    1,166  7,721   4,415   844    5,246   10,505
Management Capacity          5
Promoting Public Awareness   26,105  282    4,749  31,136  16,955  420    6,411   23,786
and Community Support
Improving Blood Safety and   30,297  113    4,242  34,652  39,141  169    5,707   45,017
Rational Use
Controlling Sexually Transmitted  10,040  283  1,232  11,555  14,338  422  3,882  18,642
Diseases
Building Surveillance and    11,748  226    2545   14519   8801    337    6241    15379
Clinical Management Capacity                2      1       8       3       ,      1
TOTAL                        84,180  1,469  13,934  99,583  83,650  2,192  27,487  113,329






43                              Annex D
Annex D. Trends in Knowledge, Awareness, and Behavior, by
State
Table El. Change in Awareness of HIV/AIDS Among Women of Reproductive Age
"Heard of AIDS" (percent)a   Aware that condoms prevent HIV
"Heard o AJDS" percenttransmission (percent)b
1992-93    1998-99    2001     1992-93    1998-99
(NFHS-1)   (NFHS-2)   (BSS)    (NFHS-1)   (NFHS-2)  2001 (BSS)
NATIONAL            16.8       40.3      70.0       4.7        8.0       33.7
Andhra Pradesh                 55.3      97.4                  8.9       55.6
Arunachal Pradesh   16.2       60.4                           12.5
Assam                8.4       33.7      60.8                  8.9       23.9
Bihar                          11.7      26.9                  2.8        4.5
Goa                 41.7       76.3      90.2c     13.3       11.4       60.4 c
Gujarat             10.6       29.8      37.5d      3.5        8.1        8.0
Haryana                        44.3      69.8                 16.2       38.0
Himachal Pradesh               60.9      89.6                 24.2       68.7
Jammu & Kashmir                31.9      75.4e                 5.1       38.6d
Kamataka                       58.1      78.9                  5.0       32.6
Kerala                         86.9      98.7'                10.4       71.8
Madhya Pradesh                 22.7      42.9                  6.0       15.4
Maharashtra         18.6       61.1      77.3       6.0       12.3       34.9
Manipur             72.5       92.9      92.0                 14.3       60.1
Meghalaya           26.7       44.2                            8.4
Mizoram             84.8       93.2                           37.1
Nagaland            40.9       72.4                            2.3
Orissa                         39.0      58.6                  5.7       13.7
Punjab                         54.6      88.0     .           19.0       65.6
Rajasthan                      20.8      52.5                  7.0       21.3
Sikkim                         53.6      70.8                 12.6       40.3
Tamil Nadu          23.4       87.3      87.4h      3.3        9.6       40.4
Tripura             13.2
Uttar Pradesh                  20.2      34.9                  5.0       10.3
West-Bengal          9.8       26.4      50.1'      3.5        5.6       10.4
Union TerritoriesJ
Delhi               35.8       79.2      85.9      14.4       41.2       63.1
NFHS: National Family Health Survey, BSS: Behavbral Surveillance Survey.
aThe percentage of women who responded in the affirmative to the question, 'Have you heard of AIDS?"
The samples of women for each survey are slightly different. NFHS-1: Ever married women age 13-49;
NFHS-2: Ever married women age 15-49; BSS 2001: Women age 15-49 (irrespective of marital status).
b As a percent of all women (not just those who were aware of AIDS). The results for the NFHS and BSS are
not strictly comparable because of differences in the way that the questions were asked. The NFHS asked
respondents if a person can do anything to avoid becoming infected with HIV; those who
responded in the affirmative were asked what a person could do to avoid AIDS, in an open-ended
question. The BSS asked all respondents who had ever heard of or seen a condom, "For what purposes
could a condom be used?", for which one possible answer was "HIV/AIDS Control" (NACO 2001c).
'The union territories Daman and Diu are included in results for Goa.



44                                Annex D
dThe union territories Dadra and Nagar Haveli are included in results for Gujarat.
eJammu region only.
fThe union territory Lakshadweep is included in results for Kerala.
9The union territory Chandigarh is included in results for Punjab.
hThe union territory Pondicherry is included in results for Tamil Nadu.
'The union territories Andaman and Nicobar Islands are included in results for West Bengal.
3The National Family Health Surveys did not survey union territories, with the exception of Delhi. The BSS
pooled results for union territories with an adjacent state. See footnotes c-i.



