Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2350 IN
                  (National Aids Control Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 24, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2350 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1992, between  INDIA, acting by its
President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower expects to obtain from the World Health
Organization (WHO) a grant of one million five hundred thousand
dollars ($1,500,000) (the WHO Grant) towards financing of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WHO (the WHO Grant Agreement);
and
      (C)   certain parts of the Project shall be carried out by
Page  2
States of the Borrower with the Borrower's assistance and for such
purpose the Borrower and the Association intend to obtain from each
such State certain undertakings in respect of the carrying out of
its portion of the Project in accordance with terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Development Credit Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AIDS" means Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome, a
severe life threatening condition which represents the late clinical
stage of infection with HIV;
      (b)   "HIV" means Human Immunodeficiency Virus;
      (c)   "IEC" means information, education and communication;
      (d)   "Letter of Undertaking" means the Letter of Undertaking
provided to the Borrower and the Association by a State or Union
Territory pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "MIS" means management information system;
      (f)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (g)   "NACA" means the National Aids Control Authority, to be
constituted by the Borrower in MOH pursuant to this Project;
      (h)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
      (i)   "Project State" means any State of the Borrower that is
carrying out any portion of the Project;
      (j)   "Project Union Territory" means a Union Territory of the
Borrower that is carrying out any portion of the Project;
      (k)   "STD" means sexually transmitted disease; and
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-nine
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
59,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
Page  3
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2002 and ending March 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
Page  4
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, and health practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limiting any of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Project
State and Project Union Territory to carry out its respective
portion of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable such Project
State or Project Union Territory to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall
cause each Project State and Project Union Territory to carry out
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
      (d)   The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to each Project State or Project Union Territory,
as the case may be, for such parts of the Project as are to be
carried out by such Project State or Project Union Territory in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the Project States or Project Union Territories.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of any
other part of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
each Project State or Project Union Territory to carry out its
portion of the Project, in accordance with a Letter of Undertaking
issued by such Project State or Project Union Territory to the
Borrower and the Association with terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by September 30, 1992,
promulgate and thereafter maintain and enforce regulations requiring
that condoms manufactured or sold in India conform at least to
minimum quality standards established by WHO.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower as well as each Project State or Project
Union Territory, responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
            from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
            expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  auditors contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any Project State or Project Union Territory shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under its respective Letter
of Undertaking.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
Page  6
which shall make it improbable that any Project State or Project
Union Territory will be able to perform its obligations under its
respective Letter of Undertaking.
      (c)   The Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any
of the provisions of any Letter of Undertaking.
      (d)   Any Letter of Undertaking shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated or repealed without the prior approval of the
Association.
      (e)   (i)   Subject to paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                  the WHO Grant shall have been suspended, cancel-
                  led or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                  to the terms of the WHO Grant Agreement.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
                  sion, cancellation or termination is not caused
                  by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                  its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
                  ment.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a) the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
      (b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have established NACA pursuant to
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Development Credit Agreement and
designated staff of NACA shall have been appointed and assumed
office; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the WHO
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ Lalit Mansingh
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil                       200,000        90%
     works
(2)  Equipment,               29,700,000        100% of foreign
     vehicles,                                  expenditures,
     STD medicines,                             100% of local
     laboratory                                 expenditures,
Page  8
     and medical                                (ex-factory
     supplies,                                  cost) and 80%
     IEC and MIS                                of local
     materials and                              expenditures
     furniture                                  for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3)  Local                                      90%
     consultants'
     services
     (other than
     by NGOs)
     (a) for Part F              400,000
     (b) other                 4,200,000
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Training and             12,800,000        80%
     services of
     NGOs
(5)  Incremental               3,700,000        90% of local
     operating                                  expenditures
     costs                                      incurred until
                                                March 31, 1994,
                                                and 60% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred there-
                                                after
(6)  Advertisement/            4,600,000        95%
     publicity
     services
(7)  Unallocated               4,200,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                59,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental
costs incurred by the Borrower or any Project State or Project Union
Territory for (i) salaries of additional staff; and (ii) operation
and maintenance of vehicles, and office and laboratory equipment, in
order to carry out the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
      (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 2,100,000, may be made on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after October 31, 1991; and
Page  9
      (b)   expenditures incurred in, or by, any Project State or
Project Union Territory unless that Project State or Project Union
Territory has delivered to the Association, a Letter of Undertaking
of such Project State or Project Union Territory satisfactory to the
Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The main objective of the Project is to slow the spread of HIV
so as to reduce future morbidity and mortality and other types of
adverse impact due to AIDS in India.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:     Strengthening HIV Control Management Capability
      (1)   Strengthening of Project planning, coordination,
            management and monitoring capabilities at the national
            level, as well as in Project States and Project Union
            Territories. This component would emphasize, in particu-
            lar, the following aspects: information, education and
            communication (IEC), condom programming, blood safety,
            epidemiology and research, case management, women's and
            children's health, popular participation and social
            aspects.
      (2)   Training and orientation of personnel of the Borrower,
            Project States, Project Union Territories and selected
            NGOs in Project planning, coordination, management and
            monitoring.
Part B:     Public Awareness and Community Support
      (1)   Carrying out by the Borrower, Project States and Project
            Union Territories, directly as well as through non-
            governmental organizations and private sector advertis-
            ing agencies, of an intensive public awareness and
            community support campaign under the Project including
            through radio, television, newspaper and bill board
            advertisements.  This campaign would include the
            promotion of safe practices including safe sexual
            practices, use of sterilized needles and use of unin-
            fected blood and blood products as well as improving the
            knowledge of risk behavior groups, potentially vulnera-
            ble groups and health service providers about HIV and
            AIDS.
      (2)   Sustained dissemination of information and health
            education about HIV and AIDS through existing health
            personnel at all levels by IEC; provision of training
            for trainers, health staff and social workers.
      (3)   Mobilizing social and community leaders in support of
            the Project through conferences of opinion leaders at
            the national and state levels on the HIV and AIDS
            epidemic.
      (4)   Training of personnel of the Borrower, Project States
            and Project Union Territories in agencies other than
            those in the health field, to increase their awareness
            and knowledge about HIV and AIDS transmission and
            prevention; and developing and implementing program
            strategies to integrate HIV and AIDS IEC activities into
            IEC activities of such agencies.
Part C:     Expansion of Blood Safety and Rational Use
Page  10
      (1)   Upgrading blood banking capabilities and expansion of
            HIV screening of blood so as to increase coverage of HIV
            screening from a current level of about 30% to about 90%
            of all blood donated in the country, including by
            expanding testing capabilities and establishing zonal
            and reference testing centers; by linking such reference
            centers to blood screening facilities for quality
            control; by providing blood component separation
            equipment and supplies; and by collaboration of such
            reference centers with relevant agencies of the Borrower
            including the Indian Council for Medical Research.
      (2)   Training of staff of blood banks, zonal testing centers,
            reference centers and other personnel involved in the
            HIV screening network.
      (3)   Upgrading standards in blood banks for protection
            against blood transmissible diseases.
            Part D:     Improving Institutional Capacity for Surveillance and
            Clinical Management
      Strengthening institutional capability at the national, state
and union territory levels for monitoring the development of the HIV
and AIDS epidemic and planning and programming interventions to
control such epidemic; provision of HIV testing capability for
sentinel surveillance at selected sites; carrying out of HIV point
prevalence surveys at selected sites; training and research into
socio-behavioral and epidemiological aspects of the epidemic
including strategies for intervention to control the epidemic.
Part E:     Strengthening Capability to Control Sexually Transmitted
            Diseases
      Strengthening of clinical services and case management in STD
centers in about 130 medical colleges and about 200 STD municipal
clinics including by training of key staff, trainers and private
practitioners and carrying out IEC on STD.
Part F:     Preparation of Future Projects
      Preparation of future projects in the health sector.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in May 1985
(the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
Page  11
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works shall be awarded, on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Equipment, vehicles, STD medicines, laboratory and medical
supplies and IEC and MIS materials, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $8,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Furniture and equipment, off the shelf items or groups of
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $14,400,000
equivalent may be procured locally under quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Equipment and medical and laboratory supplies up to an
aggregate amount of $19,800,000 equivalent may be procured directly
from the World Health Organization in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Advertisement and publicity services under Part B of the
Project up to an aggregate amount of $7,700,000, shall be procured
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract awarded under Part A of
this Schedule, the first three contracts under paragraphs 1 and 2
respectively of Part C of this Schedule and contracts under Part
C(4) of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and the Project States and
Project Union Territories in carrying out the Project, each of them
Page  12
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in August
1981 (the Guidelines on Use of Consultants).
2.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, provisions of the Guidelines on Use of Consultants
requiring prior review or approval by the Association of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for
consultants services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 each, provided, however, that the terms of reference of
such consultants shall be subject to prior review by the Associa-
tion. In respect of each such contract, the Borrower shall, subject
to subparagraphs (b) and (c) below, furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect thereof, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective evaluation
and recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
      (b)   Where payments for the contracts referred to in the
preceding subparagraph (a) are to be made out of the Special
Account, the two conformed copies of the contract together with
other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said subparagraph (a) shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts referred to in the preceding subparagraph (a)
on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Copies of such contracts, together with other information required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the preceding
subparagraph (a) shall be retained by the Borrower in accordance
with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
      (d)   The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract, or the contract itself, is not consistent with this
Agreement or the Guidelines on Use of Consultants, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Policy and Planning
1.    The Borrower shall develop, under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association and provide to the Association by June 30,
1995, a strategic plan for the next phase of the Borrower's program
for the control of HIV and AIDS.
Project Implementation
2.    The Borrower shall, by June 1, 1992, establish and thereafter
maintain NACA, with adequate full-time staff and other resources and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1992, establish and
thereafter maintain, a Technical Advisory Sub-Committee on Social,
Ethical and Legal Issues, with terms of reference which shall be
issued by the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
4.    Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
Page  13
shall cause Project States and Project Union Territories to
establish by dates agreed with the Association, and thereafter
maintain, AIDS Control Cells in their respective Departments of
Health, with appropriate staff and resources, for planning,
coordinating, implementing and monitoring implementation of the
Project in the concerned Project State or Project Union Territory.
5.    The Borrower shall select, and cause Project States and
Project Union Territories to select, non-governmental organizations
participating in the Project on the basis of criteria and procedures
agreed with the Association.
Review
6.    Without limitation to Article IX of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall review with the Association annually by December
31 of each year the progress of Project implementation over the
preceding twelve months and an annual work plan for Project
implementation for the next following twelve months.
7.    The Borrower shall carry out with the Association a mid-term
review of Project implementation prior to March 31, 1995 and shall,
thereafter, during Project implementation, take into account
comments and suggestions made by the Association at such review.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
Page  14
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit,
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  15
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
