Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21929
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38090)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO PEC KATOWICE
FOR KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
June 28, 2001
This document has restricted and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = New Polish Zloty (PLN)
= US$ 0.2257
US$ = PLN 4.4295
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Acronyms and Abbreviations
CHP                  Combined Heat and Power (Plant)
CO                   Carbon Dioxide
DH                   District Heating
DHE                  District Heating Enterprise
DHW                  Domestic Hot Water
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GHG                  Greenhouse Gas
HOB                  Heat-Only-Boiler
LAS                  International Accounting Standards
MoE                  Ministry of Energy
MTR                  Midterm Review
NO                   Nitrogen Oxide
NPV                  Net Present Value
O&M                  Operations and Maintenance
PEC                  Regional District Heating Enterprise (of Katowice from 1992 on)
PMR                  Project Management Reporting
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
UNFCCC               U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change
URE                  Energy Regulatory Authority
WPEC Katowice        Voivodship District Heating Enterprise (of Katowice until 1992)
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:    Henk Busz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Enar Wennerstrom



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
POLAND
KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     17
10. Additional Information                                                              21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008614                                        Project Name: KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY
Team Leader: Karl Enar Wennerstrom                         TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR7 Tvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY                            L/C/TFNNumber: CPL-38090
Country/Department: POLAND                                                 Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/07/1993                               Effective:  12/19/1994
Appraisal:  03/19/1993                                 MTR:
Approval:  11/17/1994                               Closing: 06/30/2000           10/31/2000
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: KATOWICE DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE/PEC KATOWICE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                            Wilfred Thalwitz
Cotuntiy Manager:     Michael F. Carter                          Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Henk Busz                                  Bernard Montfort
Team Leader at ICR:   Enar Wennerstrom                           Henk Busz
ICR Primary Author:   Karl Enar Wennerstr6m; Arto
Nuorkivi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The predecessor to PEC Katowice, WPEC Katowice, was originally intended to be one of the five district
heating enterprises (DHEs) that were participants in the Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation
Project to the Republic of Poland (Loan 3809-POL, Project ID: P008576). Just prior to loan signing on
September 16, 1991, however, the large WPEC Katowice system was broken up into 11 independent
entities when ownership was to be transferred from the state to the municipalities they served. PEC
Katowice was one of these entities, and the intention was for its ownership to be transferred to the five
municipalities it serves.
Because of the relationship between the two projects, this ICR closely parallels the ICR for Project ID
P008576, dated June 5, 2000, and the monitoring indicators of the two projects are compared when
appropriate.
All of the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project's objectives were investment-oriented. They
were to:
I . enhance energy conservation and efficiency in the district heating sector by financing appropriate
investments;
2. extend the life of existing district heating assets through rehabilitation and introduction of modem
technologies and materials; and
3. reduce environmental pollution through investments in energy-efficient equipment and systems, as well
as by supporting programs to eliminate coal-fired boilers.
These objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the Government's policy and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of improving economic efficiency in the supply and use of energy and
mobilizing additional domestic and foreign capital for investments. The Government's Energy Policy and
Strategy, in line with the EU strategy for the energy sector, called for energy security through cost-effective
supply of energy at socially acceptable prices and in an environmentally sustainable manner.
The Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project merited the Bank's support because it would yield
immediate large benefits in two priority areas of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy: increased energy
efficiency and lower pollution. The background to the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project was
that, for a considerable period, the district heating enterprise for the Katowice region had suffered from a
lack of funds to effectively operate, maintain, and renew its fixed assets. There were major heat and hot
water losses because of serious corrosion caused by poor water quality and water leakage and lack of
insulation. The local municipalities lacked the technical and financial resources to effectively address these
problems and, even though already identified as potential owners, did not give them adequate attention
because the district heating enterprise, PEC Katowice, was a state-owned enterprise.
The project's objectives also addressed the issue of environmental pollution. Under its National
Environmental Policy, Poland had made progress in addressing short- and medium-term environmental
priorities. Substantial progress had been made in addressing pollution from large scale sources, in part
because of the restructuring associated with the transition to a market economy (i.e., the closing down of
energy-intensive and inefficient industries), and to Poland's strategy for complying with international
protocols and treaties and with the requirements for European Union accession. Continued progress now
depended on tackling air pollutant emissions (especially particulates) from many small dispersed sources,
such as those used for domestic heating, and which typically are located in densely populated areas, have
low stacks, and are not equipped with any type of flue gas cleaning facilities. These were also a major
source of health problems.
-2 -



Finally, the project has supported the Government in meeting its international obligations. Poland ratified
the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on July 28, 1994, and submitted the
National Communication in 1996, agreeing to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to the 1988 level in
the year 2000 through measures aimed at encouraging economic efficiency and rational use of energy.
Because the potential for reducing energy consumption (and in turn carbon dioxide (C02) emissions) in
space heating is largely related to the enhancing of heating devices and the quality of building insulation,
priority was accorded to the public and residential sectors.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following major components: (a) Network rehabilitation and replacement (US$
26.5 million); (b) Substation retrofit, automation and metering (US$ 28.8 million); (c) Network sectioning
systems (US$ 5.3 million); (d) Network monitoring, interconnection and dispatching system (US$ 5.3
million); (e) Boiler elimination and conversion program (US$12.6 million); and (f) Technical assistance
(US$ 1.7 million). Import duties and taxes amounted to US$ 1.0 million. Annex 2 shows a comparison
between the appraisal estimate above and the actual figures.
3.4 Revised Components:
No formal revision of components was made and most of the equipment was installed as scheduled in the
Staff Appraisal Report.
The original closing date was June 30, 2000, but, to enable the company to complete the project work in
progress, the Bank approved a new closing date of October 31, 2000. At the same time, the loan amount
was reduced from US$45.0 million to US$36.6 million at the request of the Borrower.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality at entry review conducted for this project. The priority rehabilitation measures to be
implemented under the investment projects were identified through the Master Plan Study prepared by the
Finnish consultant Ekono Energy. All recommendations for improvements to PEC Katowice in the Staff
Appraisal Report were based on recommendations in the study.
Because the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project began three years later than the Heat Supply
Restructuring and Conservation Project to the Republic of Poland, PEC Katowice was able to use valuable
experience that had been gained from the other project. The Bank already had experience from a number of
sector studies carried out since 1986 as part of the assessment of the economy as a whole. Since the
beginning of the promarket economic reforms in 1990, the Bank invested considerable resources in a
program of economic and sector work tailored to provide the Government and civil society with guidance in
transforming a command economy into a market economy. At that time, the energy sector was
characterized by its high energy intensity and overcentralization, resulting in vast institutional inefficiencies
and operational wastage, dependence on the state budget for investment and price subsidies, and by the
absence of market-related price signals (except for coal exports). In addition, it was the country's major
source of air pollution. The Polish district heating sector was at the core of these problems, and there was a
need to capture the significant savings potential buried in the inefficient production, distribution, and
utilization of district heating and to reduce the sector's negative impact on the environment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
- 3 -



4.1 Ozitcome/achievement of objective:
The project met its objectives of increased energy efficiency and good fiscal impact and benefits to the
consumers and reduced pollution from coal-fired boilers resulting in coal savings and good fiscal impact
and benefits to the consumers. Achievement of objectives was based on the improvements achieved in the
PEC Katowice infrastructure, efficiency gains, the sustainable enviromnental development, the economic
performance, and the major positive impact on the local district heating (DH) equipment manufacturing and
associated industries. Details of the performance indicators, economic rate of ERR), and net present value
(NPV) calculations for the investment components of the project are shown in Annexes I and 3. The
achievements of the project are outlined below.
Objective 1: Enhance energy conservation in the district heating sector through financing appropriate
investments. This objective was achieved, and the outcome was rated "Satisfactory". The overall system
efficiency has increased from 59 percent to 69 percent (see Annex 3), resulting in annual energy savings
equivalent to 118 kilotons (kt) of coal. These savings were achieved through (a) reducing overall heat
transmission and distribution losses by almost half (from 30 percent to 18 percent of heat produced); and
(b) reducing water losses by 45 percent (SAR: projected 65 percent). Energy efficiency and conservation
measures implemented to achieve these savings included installation of preinsulated pipe systems,
modernization of substations, metering, system automation and telecomnmunications controlled systems, and
boiler elimination and conversion.
Objective 2: Extend the life of existing district heat assets through rehabilitation and introduction of
modern technologies and materials. This objective was achieved, and the outcome was rated
"Satisfactory". The investments in the district heating system that covered replacement of leaking
components, installation of network sectioning, and installation of water treatment systems have
substantially reduced water losses and improved water quality. This has considerably reduced the internal
corrosion of the pipelines and substations, thereby extending the life of these fixed assets. The preinsulated
pipe technologies installed under the project will not be subject to extemal corrosion and therefore have an
expected life of 30 - 50 years compared with less than 15 - 20 years for the traditional, concrete duct pipe
technologies. As a result of the project investments, the weighted average remaining lifetime has been
extended from 23 years in 1992 to 26 years in 2000 for the networks, and from 10 to 15 years for the
consumer substations. This is equivalent to a reduction in the rate of pipeline and substation replacement
by 1.3 km and 36 MW per year, respectively, corresponding to a 17 percent and 33 percent reduction
compared to 1992.
Objective 3: Reduce environmental pollution through investment in energy-efficient equipment and
systems, as well as by supporting programs to replace small coal-fired boilers by gas-fired boilers. This
objective was achieved, and the outcome was rated "Satisfactory." The environmental objectives were
substantially achieved as a result of the above-mentioned increased energy efficiency and conservation
measures, and the small-boiler elimination and conversion program. A major factor in the project's success
was the concern of the population with the level of air pollution, which resulted in a strong commitment
from both PEC Katowice and local municipalities towards mitigating this problem. Specifically, total flue
gas emissions from all heat sources were reduced by 21 percent for sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide
(NO,), and carbon dioxide (CO), and by 31 percent for particulates. This represents an annual reduction of
about 1 ,150 tons of S02, 550 tons of NO, 500 tons of particulates, and 330,000 tons of CO,. In
particular, the small boiler elimination and conversion program contributed significantly to this
improvement. As a result, the population benefited from a substantial improvement in air quality.
4.2 Outputs by components:
-4 -



Investment Component (total costs: US$58.8 million; IBRD financing: US$35.8 million). The design of
the optimization program was appropriate, and the achievements of the physical objectives of the project
were "Satisfactory." The investment component provided for the rehabilitation and modernization of district
heating facilities. Optimization programs developed in the context of the master plan identified the
investment measures needed to sustain the least-cost heating solutions with significant environmental
benefits. The measures implemented under this component aimed at (a) extending network life and
minimizing network leakage; (b) enabling substantial system downsizing due to more efficient use of
existing resources; (c) improving load management and reducing energy losses; (d) facilitating accurate
metering of both energy purchased and sold; and (e) reducing air pollution through small coal boiler
replacement and by conversion to gas-fired boilers.
Technical Assistance Component (US$0.8 million for the IBRD-financed portion).
The design of the technical assistance component was appropriate, and the outcome was rated as
"Satisfactory."
To strengthen institutional capacities, 230 staff-weeks of consulting services were used to prepare the
master plan to develop the management information system and to initiate a quality assurance (QA) control
system. Training was undertaken to cover general management, investment planning and economic
evaluation, international procurement and trade, quality assurance, marketing and customer relations, and
modem district heating management and operations based on new techniques and technologies. Training
included courses in outside institutions and in-house, as well as training of engineers and operators
provided for under all equipment contracts. As a result, PEC Katowice has developed in-house expertise
for investment optimization and planning, execution and management of the network operation, and
preventive maintenance. The success of the training and technical assistance programs was a key factor in
achieving the substantial improvements in the company's physical operations as detailed in Annex 1, Key
Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix.
4.3 ANet Present Valiue/Econonmic r ate of return:
The Project has had significant economic benefits. The major benefits have been coal savings and system
down-sizing, which together acounted for 70% of the total economic benefits derived from the Project.
Other benefits were extended life of DH assets, productivity improvement, increased availability of heating
services, and reduction in flue gas and particulate emissions. The ERRs are summarized in the following
table (see Annex 3 for details and also for a comparision with the "Four Cities"):
Table 1: Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) and Net Present Values (NPVs) for the Project.
PEC Katowice    Four Cities
ERR
Without environmental benefits:
At appraisal                                  16.0%           23.0%
At completion                                 24.9%           44.0%
With environmental benefits:
At appraisal                                 26..0%           30.0%
At completion                                 38.9%           74.0%
NPV (10%)
Without environmental benefits:
-5 -



At appraisal
At completion                                $30.3 mill.        N/A
With environmental benefits            __         ___
At appraisal                                           ___
At completion                                $46.6 mill.        N/A
The table above shows that even though satisfactory the ERR for PEC Katowice has not reached the same
result as the "Four Cities" projects. The main reason for this is the "Four Cities" had on the average a
considerably higher internal cash generation over the project period and were all granted extensions to the
Loan closing date and could therefore use their loans over a longer period to achieve maximum economic
benefits.
As also shown in Table 1, PEC Katowice's ERR at completion was higher than anticipated at appraisal.
The NPV at completion amounted to US$46.6 million.. Eighty-five percent of the cumulative economic
benefits of the investment project went to the PEC Katowice customers in the form of reduced heat prices.
The remaining 15 percent was shared among all the inhabitants of the region through improved air quality,
and the Polish economy as a whole through reduced greenhouse gas emissions (mainly from carbon
dioxide). The CHPs have gained few economic benefits because the economic load dispatch was never
implemented, and the water temperature reduction has been modest. The efficiency gains resulting from the
Government's energy pricing policy and achieved by both PEC Katowice and the CHPs have greatly
benefited the DH end customers through a 61 percent reduction in the price of heating 1 square meter (mi)
of floor area (from PLN 55/rm in 1992 to 21.4 PLN/m2 in 2000, both expressed in 2000 prices).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not issued in the SAR or in the Project Completion Report.
Financial Performance of PEC Katowice:
Although the economic benefits of the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project have been
substantial, the heat price reduction in real terms since 1991 has been 61 percent-the highest figure for
any of the five cities participating the two projects. PEC Katowice thus was not able to keep a sufficient
share of these benefits to achieve satisfactory financial viability. Because the financial performance of PEC
Katowice that was anticipated in the SAR never materialized, it has therefore been rated "Neglible".
Insufficient tariff increases caused PEC Katowice's financial viability to gradually decrease during the
project period. The operating ratio of PEC Katowice was in the high 90s, as compared with the 90 percent
in the financial projections of the SAR. Because the net fixed assets increased from PLN 87.9 million in
1993 to PLN 269.5 million in 1999, the return on net fixed assets decreased from 10.2 percent to -1.4
percent in the same period. These figures overstate the return on assets in real terms because the fixed
assets in Polish utilities have not been allowed to be revalued since January 1, 1995. In the meantime,
Poland was suffering from hyperinflation from January 1, 1995, to December 31, 1996, and very high
inflation in the five years thereafter. Because of this, all Bank projects in Poland using International
Accounting Standards (IAS) have been given a qualified audit opinion with reference to IAS29, which
concerns hyperinflation. If assets had been appropriately revalued and proper depreciation charges used,
there would have been a negative rate of return in recent years. De facto, this meant that not only were all
of the benefits fr6m the project distributed to other parties, but also that losses in real terms depleted the
company's equity and made the company less able to service its debt.
-6 -



Because of delays in the project implementation, however, it was still possible to generate sufficient cash to
finance the required counterpart funding for the project. With the exception of 1995, PEC Katowice was in
compliance with its two financial covenants: an internal cash generation ratio of 30 percent and a debt
service coverage ratio of 1.3. The debt service coverage began in 1995 at a very high level (25 times) and
was gradually reduced to 5 times in 1998 (in accordance with IAS). During these years the company's
financial performance was well in line with that of the DHEs in the Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project (see Annex 1). In 1998 and 1999, however, the internal cash generation covenant of
30 percent was only fulfilled in a formal way as the current liabilities were increased from PLN 48.1
million in 1997 to PLN 95.6 million in 1999.
Tariff increases were not forthcoming in the early part of 1999 because the new regulator, URE,
concentrated all efforts on the licensing of heating companies; tariff issues were not therefore a priority.
Tariffs had not been increased between April 1, 1998, and March 1, 2000, and heat demand had been
significantly reduced because of efficiency gains achieved under the project. Compared to other DH
borrowers, however, there was very little or no improvement in internal restructuring and in labor
productivity. From the lack of competition between external heat sources, heat prices from external CHP
plants were approximately 10 percent higher than the neighboring DH company in Krakow experienced.
Together with lack of financial planning and management expertise, these factors made it difficult to fulfill
URE's requirements for the new tariff regime in time. In this context, it should be noted that the
preparation of a tariff proposal is complex and time-consuming process, because it involves calculating
costs for more than 60 different tariff categories.
The planned tariff increases in 1999 never materialized, and the actual net loss was PLN 25.9 million
(according to IAS). In its audit report for 1999, Deloitte & Touche stated that because PEC Katowice
suffered a net loss of PLN 25.9 million, and that its working capital as of December 31, 1999, showed
negative value of PLN 42.5 million, causing substantial problems for the company to maintain an
appropriate level of liquidity, there were substantial doubts about the company's ability to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future. Calculations in accordance with Polish Accounting Law showed a net
loss of PLN 18.3 million in 1999 compared to a net profit of PLN 2.5 million in 1998.
This situation led the Bank and PEC Katowice to agree on an Action Plan with specific financial targets.
The Bank ask PEC Katowice not to award any new contracts before it was clear that the 1999 investment
program could be implemented without reliance on short-term borrowing. It was also agreed that PEC
Katowice should produce quarterly reports in accordance with the Project Management Reporting (PMR)
format.
In February 2000, PEC Katowice submitted a request to extend the closing date and reduce the loan
amount. The Bank would not consider the company's request for a closing date extension until a
satisfactory financial restructuring plan ready for implementation had been submitted. By May 2000 it was
clear that PEC Katowice could not produce a credible restructuring plan dealing with the fundamental
causes of the problems, such as tariff increases, collection performance, improved liquidity, and other
internal efficiency measures. It was therefore decided that an extension would only be granted for
commitments approved by the Bank prior to March 16, 2000. After the voivodeship had reviewed PEC
Katowice's restructuring plan and found it unsatisfactory, the managing director was dismissed on August
18, 2000. The voivode remained committed to solving the situation and employed an administrative
receiver to find ways to improve the company's situation. He was given a mandate to restructure the
company's finances before December 31, 2001
-7 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as "Negligible". The institutional development impact was much
lower than for other DHEs. One reason for this is that the other DHEs were granted two year loan
extensions but also because PEC Katowice's senior management did not follow up their initial intentions
with regard to insitutional development.
Over the project period the the limited scope and slow implementation of the Management Information
System (MIS) hampered institutional development. Despite repeated reminders by the Bank of the need to
broaden the scope to include financial accounting, billing and collection, etc., the System instead focused on
technical matters, including initiating a sophisticated geographical information (mapping) system.
The Quality Assurance system (ISO 9002), which had been intended to indentify the main processes of
PEC Katowice, internal/external customer relationships, information flows and documentation, internal
development process, internal auditing, etc., was initiated but later stopped. The environmental
development system (ISO 14000) was never initiated.
On the positive side, it must be mentioned that even though PEC Katowice stopped the development of the
Quality Assurance System (ISO 9002), key personnel are aware of the System's requirements,and what
would be expected of them if they should adopt a state-of-the-art system. Further, on the technical side,
PEC Katowice has successfully introduced competitive bidding and has made substantial savings compared
to original estimates. The project also indirectly supported the privatization of one of the heat sources,
Chorzow Combined Heat and Power Plant, which uses PEC Katowice as its distributor for heat services.
The American power company, PSEG, is the majority owner through its subsidiary, Elcho. Having taken
all the above into consideration the Bank feels that the rating "Negligible" is justified.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors otutside the control of government or implementing agency:
High Inflation. The transition from command to market economy was characterized by high inflation,
which for several years reached the level of hyperinflation. According to International Accounting
Standards, inflation accounting should have been used for the years in question. This was not the case and,
because of this, the already low profits in the energy sector were overstated. In recognition of this, all Bank
projects using Intemational Accounting Standards were given a qualified audit opinion with reference to
IAS29, which concerns hyperinflation.
Transition to Market Economy. At the beginning of the 1 990s the energy sector had very little debt
financing, which made it possible for the Ministry of Finance to reduce tariffs in real terms to an extent that
would not have been possible in a developed market economy with a normal level of debt financing. By the
end of the 1990s the situation had changed. Many companies increased their debt-to-equity ratio and made
them very vulnerable to tariff regulations that did not take the sector's financial situation and actual
financial viability into consideration. The example of PEC Katowice illustrates this point. By December 31,
1998, the company's debt-to-equity ratio was 36.9 percent (long-term debt PLN 60.5 million to owners'
equity of PLN 163.8 million. One year later on December 31, 1999, the debt-to-equity ratio was 81.5
percent (long-term debt PLN 112.5 million to owners' equity of PLN 138.0 million). Because the
debt-to-equity ratio is equivalent to the beta factor in equity risk calculations, this meant that the financial
risk of the company increased substantially over only two years. The risk is likely to increased further as
the company forecasts a substantial loss for the year 2000.
- 8 -



Ordered Heat Load. Prior to the implementation of the Energy Law in 1999, PEC Katowice had to
negotiate a new contract with their customers which resulted in additional costs to the company and delays
in the implementation of tariff increases. While the Energy Law resolved the problem of tariff changes,
customers continue to renegotiate other aspects of their contract, particularly the heat demand levels, now
that a substantial part (30 percent) of the heating bill (the fixed charge) is based on demand level. The heat
load of the customers has dropped 19 percent from 1,317 MW in 1992 to 1,065 MW in 2000, despite the
increased floor area connected to the system has expanded from 7.60 million to 9.45 million m2 thus
compensating the impacts. The negotiated heat load of original customers has dropped to 856 MW, to a 35
percent lower level than it used to be in 1992. The drop of total ordered heat load has had a drastic negative
impact to the revenues of PEC Katowice, because the company was not allowed to compensate the drop by
adjusting the fixed unit prices of heat accordingly. The reason for the drastic drop of ordered heat capacity
is due to an unclear definition of the heat load thus giving very little assistance to PEC Katowice to defend
their policy when customers requested to have their load reduced.
Heat Demand. 23 percent less heat energy was sold to customers in 2000 than in 1993; equivalent to 26
percent for a constant housing stock. This occurred even though housing stock connected to district heating
had expanded by 9 percent,The decline had a substantial negative impact on PEC Katowice's financial
situation. The SAR had expected that heat demand would decline 8 percent from 1993 to 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Energy Regulation. During the 1990s, one of the main priorities of the Government was to reduce
inflation, and to this end both macro- and microeconomic means were used. In this hyperinflationary
economy, heat tariffs were not increased in line with inflation. This adversely affected PEC Katowice's
financial situation and, ultimately, its ability to generate internal cash sufficient to carry out their planned
investments. This was especially true in the middle of the 1990s, when the Government implemented a 22
percent VAT step by step without increasing tariffs in real terms. The introduction of a new regulatory
regime further contributed to the deteriorating financial performance in the sector. In its first year the
regulator, URE, concentrated on issuing licenses to some 2,000 energy enterprises rather than on reviewing
proposals for tariff increases, and few tariff proposals were approved during the year. For companies such
as PEC Katowice that were usually granted tariff increases in the first half of the year, this meant further
financial hardship. Also, the new tariff regime as stipulated in the 1997 Energy Law, and detailed in the
ordinance from the Ministry of Economy (MoE) dated October 6, 1998, resulted in inadequate tariff
increases, mainly due to the way tariffs were calculated. The MoE, which is responsible for energy sector
policy, as well as URE, the regulator, has recognized the shortcomings of the current ordinance for heat
tariffs. The ordinance is now being revised, but although there is a consensus on the proposed revisions, no
decision has been taken. The anticipated changes will make it potentially easier for the regulator to have a
more flexible approach than was evident during the first two years of the new regime and which negatively
affected the implementing agency's performance.
Competition from Gas. Competition in the heating market is critical and while the poor financial status of
PEC Katowice would require the urgent increase of retail tariffs, there was little room in the market for
raising district heating tariffs as gas heating was only slightly more expensive (7 percent in October 2000)
than district heating. The only way to maintain competitiveness would to be reduce the high cost of
CHP-generated heat but as the figure below shows little can be done without touching the bulk heat price of
the CHP plants.
-9-



45
40                                                     ,'
3O
30
In
2 5 5
0
Z 10 
5-
0 
1              ~~~~~2                3
Consumer Heat Capacity (MV"
DH (Oct 2000) -  - - Gas (Oct. 2000) - - - - Gas (economic)
Competitiveness of District Heating versus Gas Heating from Customers' Point of View, Oct. 2000 Real
Price Level and Economic Price Level of Gas.
The regulator, URE, while implicitly allowing gas price distortion (gas price lower than the economic
price), keeping electricity prices low versus high heat prices at CHP plants while restricting district heat
retail tariff increases, effectively prevented the financial recovery of PEC Katowice.
Complex Tariff Structure. As far as PEC Katowice is concerned, the very complexity of its
organizational structure serving five municipalities and a great number of heat sources made the
calculations much more cumbersome and time-consuming than for other district heating companies. Tariffs
for more than 60 different categories had to be calculated, while other district heating companies did not
have more than seven. The calculations were so complicated and time-consuming that PEC Katowice was
unable to complete its proposal in a reasonable time. Thus, there were two years between tariff increases in
a high-inflation environment.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imnplementing agency control:
Tariff calculations. According to the ordinance from the MoE, tariffs are calculated as "justified" costs
plus a maximum 10 percent profit margin, with the restriction that no tariff may be increased by more than
15 percent in any given year. Justified costs are defined as the costs of the economic activity being carried
out, including the costs of modernization, development and environmental protection and, according to
URE, these costs should be interpreted as operating costs (including depreciation but excluding heat
purchases from external heat sources) and interest. The first major shortcoming was that the calculations
for 2000 had to be based on the 1998 costs and thus two years' inflation was not included in the "justified
costs." The second shortcoming was that only 90 percent of the heat losses were allowed as justified costs,
even though the regulations stated that all costs incurred by purchasing heat from external heat sources
should be passed on to the end users. In addition, the lack of clarity and precision in the law appears to
have been a problem in itself. For example, some local branches of URE seemed to interpret "justified"
costs to mean operating costs but not interest costs and compensation for foreign exchange losses, and
- 10 -



calculated tariffs accordingly, while the URE HQ in Warsaw stated that interest costs could be included.
Competition among the heat sources. PEC Katowice did not promote competition between the major
interconnected heat sources, EC Chorzow and EC Katowice, which caused major economic and financial
problems. The need to promote competition was emphasized: (a) in the SAR, enhancement of load dispatch
capacity was pointed out in the Project Scope (item g); (b) the Master Plan 2 (Chapter 4.2.5 in particular)
focused on changing the system operation mode from the old constant flow to variable flow which would
enable parallel operation, and competition, of several heat sources supplying heat to the integrated network;
and (c) the importance of competition was stressed frequently to the management during supervision
missions. Despite these efforts there was a lack of cooperation between the CHPs and PEC Katowice in the
areas of integrated investment planning, minimizing heat supply costs and of marketing. Lack of
competition between heat sources meant, for example, that in 2000, PEC Katowice paid 11.7 percent more
than they would have paid with Krakow's bulk heat purchase tariff. PEC Katowice also purchased
increasingly more heat energy from the more expensive (10.6 percent in 2000, for instance) source, EC
Katowice, than from the cheaper, EC Chorzow.
Implementation. Initially, there were many delays in project implementation, and slow progress in
procurement because of (a) the borrowers' lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement procedures and
commercial specifications; (b) replacement of pipes and installation of sectioning valves could only be
implemented during the five-month off-heating season; (c) the borrower's restricted resources in counter
financing (internal cash generation); and (d) the borrower's limited rights to access private property, land
and buildings, to install modem heating equipment.
Institutional development. The borrower stopped development of the Quality Assurance system (ISO
9002) that was initiated to improve organizational performance and customer orientation, and did not
initiate the environmental system development (ISO 14000). The ISO 9002 had been intended to indentify
the main processes of PEC Katowice, intemal/external customer relationships, information flows and
documentation, intemal development process, internal auditing, etc. Later in the project period, in 1996, the
management asked the consultant to issue a proposal for continued technical assistance covering, for
instance, reorganization and quality assurance. The consultant submitted the bid to PEC Katowice in 1997
but the management neither proposed any changes nor made any decision about the bid. Over the project
period management infornation system (MIS) development has focused on initiating a sophisticated
geographical information (mapping) system rather than investing in enhancement of financial accounting,
billing and collecting systems. Concentration on technical development and the leaving of financial needs
aside has had serious consequences for the financial management performance of the company. The
supervision missions have therefore expressed their concems about the limited scope and slow
implementation of the MIS and have recommended the company to broaden their scope to include financial
accounting, billing collecting, and so forth.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Completion Costs and Financing. The total completion cost for the investment project was US$59.6
million. This figure is 36 percent lower than the estimated appraisal cost of US$92.9 million. The lower
cost is mainly due to the lower use of loan and delays in project implementation. The investment
expenditures were funded by World Bank loans of US$36.7 million and PEC Katowice's own funds of
US$22.9 million. The detailed project costs and financing are shown in Annexes 2a and 2b.
Table 2: Projected and Actual Costs for the Project
-1 1



US$                       SAR        Actual       Diff.
IBRD Loan                       45         36.7      18%
PEC Katowice                  47.9         22.9      52%
Total Costs                   92.9         59.6      36%
Project Implementation. PEC Katowice was reluctant to enter into large-scale, multiyear financial
commitments in case the local funds were not available when required.
The average delay in project implementation and disbursements was two years. The closing date would
have had to be extended by two years to complete the project according to the initial financing level
expressed in the SAR. The initial delays resulted from procurement problems. Later problems centered on
the precarious financial situation resulting from high inflation, uncertainty as to when tariff increases would
be authorized, delays in collection of accounts receivable, and substantial bad debts.
The Project resulted in the mordenization of 88 percent of pipelines and 57 percent of substations. 82
percent of the boilers were eliminated. The cost assumptions of SAR were that the cost for achieving this
would be 83 percent of the total project costs. In reality only 64 percent of the funds estimated at appraisal
were needed to finance the investments. Therefore, physical implementation has been assessed to as
"Satisfactory."
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as "Likely." Despite the recent serious financial problems, the Bank
firmly believes that the sustainability of the achievements of the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation
Project is "Likely". The new ordinance for the heating sector will bring with it a number of positive
changes. First, on the regulatory side, a new and more sector-oriented approach is on the way. Second, it
will potentially be easier for the regulator to have a more flexible approach than was possible during the
first two years of the new regulatory regime, and which negatively affected the PEC Katowice's
perfornance. Third, the voivodeship, the owner, has appointed an Administrative Receiver with a mandate
to take all the necessary actions to turn the Company's net loss into a net profit before the end of 2001.
On the technical side, modem DH control systems are in operation, and the major tasks now are to continue
the replacement of the distribution networks, the modernization of the substations, and the conversion of
owner-operated, coal-fired HOBs to gas-firing or connecting the boilers' customers to the CHP-supplied
DH network, if economically feasible. The master plan prioritizes these investments for the next 15 years,
and PEC Katowice has acquired the knowledge and the analytical tools to update the plan on a regular
basis. PEC Katowice also has the necessary experience in modem technologies to continue the
rehabilitation and renewal work commenced under the project.
PEC Katowice is on the way to establish a strong image as a utility that is concemed about the
environment, and that sees its long-term interest in retaining its customers and helping them reduce their
utility bills rather than just trying to increase heat consumption. The company is now in a position to play a
more proactive role in promoting energy efficiency at the end user level.
6.2 Transitioni arrangement to regular operations:
- 12 -



As far as technical operations are concemed, PEC Katowice has been operating satisfactorily for a number
of years, and further monitoring of physical development is unnecessary. The project investments consisted
of upgrading and replacing the existing infrastructure and were put into operation immediately after
construction. Water quality has significantly improved, which will ensure safe operation of the equipment
over its design lifetime. Even though the administrative receiver has replaced all senior management, the
technical competence is solid.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank carried out the project identification, preparation, and appraisal in a comprehensive and
satisfactory manner. By the time the Bank was ready to lend to Poland in 1990, it had advanced greatly in
identifying the principal issues underlying the vast inefficiencies and wastage in the energy sector and the
negative impact of the sector on the environment. Although the plan was to develop an initial operation
covering all primary energy subsectors, the coal, lignite and power subsectors were not ready for a
Bank-financed project. As a result, the Bank narrowed down the project scope to two lending operations,
one for oil and gas (Loan 3215-POLof 1990) and one for district heating with a sector policy component
(Loans POL-3378 for Gdansk, POL-3379 for Gdynia, POL-3381 for Krakow, POL-3382 for Warsaw, and
POL-3383 for Bank of Poznan, the latter one as a credit line). The Katowice district heating system
initially was part of the comprehensive district heating loan preparation but, after corporate restructuring,
was covered by a separate district heating investment loan a few years later than the others.
During project preparation, basic master plan studies, including the DH optimization program, were
completed for the district heating system of the Katowice region covering five cities altogether. The studies
focused on rehabilitation and optimization of the existing system only, and identified the areas where
investment was most urgently needed. In addition, funds were included in the loan for preparation of a
comprehensive master plan for long-term rehabilitation, modernization, and future development of the
district heating system.
The appraisal mission correctly identified the major DH technical problems: (a) poor physical condition
caused by poor water quality and inadequate treatment, leaking networks, and lack of insulation; (b)
inadequate operating system, using constant flow and variable temperature operation instead of the variable
flow and variable temperature operation; (c) lack of sectioning and control capabilities to facilitate repair
and maintenance; and (d) excessive use of small coal-fired HOBs resulting in significant environmental
pollution. The project investments were designed to address these issues. At negotiations the investment
plans were reviewed, and the Bank agreed to set the loan amount to US$45.0 million.
The Staff Appraisal Report provided excellent assessments of the optimization program for the
investments. Bank perfornance at the lending stage was "Highly Satisfactory".
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervised the project on an average of once per year (see Annex 4, Bank Inputs). In addition,
during the first years of the project, staff from the Bank and the project implementation unit in PEC
Katowice maintained almost weekly communication to discuss implementation issues and follow up on
processing requests. Because of PEC Katowice's reluctance to procure equipment on multiyear basis, the
project was procurement intensive. The tripartite meetings between Katowice and four other DHEs, the
Bank team, and international DH experts provided timely and effective exchanges of views on technical,
- 13-



financial, economic, and implementation issues.
The necessity to increase tariffs and to control accounts receivable in order to generate funds for
investments during this period of high inflation was emphasized. In this context it was also repeatedly
emphasized that the company needed to strengthen its expertise in tariff and cost analysis calculations as
well as general financial analysis and calculations. The relevance of this recommendation was later
confirmed by the Warsaw office of URE, which stated that companies relying on accounting staff for the
preparation of tariff proposals were far less successful in proving that the proposals submitted were
justified in accordance with the ordinance. The Bank also gave much attention to the application of
international accounting standards to PEC Katowice's accounts, particularly with regard to adequate
provision for doubtful debts and depreciation.
The Bank supervision missions gave many recommendations in nontechnical areas, such as strategic
planning and financial management, and frequently stressed the importance of organizing competition
between the heat sources and of raising retail tariffs. PEC Katowice failed to address these issues
satisfactorily and focused almost entirely on the technical implementation (see Section 8, Lessons Learned).
When the financial situation became acute the Bank made it clear that it would not be willing to extend the
Loan. This decision was based on the Company's unwillingness to address management and financial
issues during the project implementation period and its failure to produce a realistic Action Plan aimed at
solving the serious financial situation (see Section 8, Lessons Learned). Bank performance during
supervision was "Highly Satisfactory".
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Continuity in the composition of the Bank project team was maintained throughout project preparation,
implementation and completion. This resulted in consistency in recommendations to the borrower regarding
physical and institutional aspects of the project. During the early critical years of implementation, a senior
Bank staff was located in the Resident Mission for ensuring close dialogue on energy sector matters. Bank
overall performance was "Highly Satisfactory."
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of PEC Katowice for the investment component was "Highly Satisfactory".
Cooperation between the Voivodeship, the company, and the international consultants to develop
fully satisfactory master plan studies was also "Highly Satisfactory".
7.5 Governmentiimplementationperformance:
Contacts with the Government were under the auspices of the Heat Supply and Restructuring Project as
this project contained a policy component addressing the addressing sector issues such as sector
restructuring, regulatory framework, commercialization, etc.. The Government's contribution in this respect
was rated as "Highly Satisfactory". This rating was partly motivated by the fact that successive
Governments had demonstrated their commitment to proceed with energy sector reforns even when
politically impopular. That PEC Katowice has not been able to benefit from these sector reforms in the
short run does not alter the fact the Government has acted forcefully throughout. The Government,
represented by the Voivode, also reacted remarkably quickly and forcefully when PEC Katowice's financial
situation became clear. The Government's performance is therefore rated "Highly Satisfactory".
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Except for an initial delay in implementation, the physical and economic aspects met expectations. Over
the seven years of project implementation, PEC Katowice moved towards becoming a customer-oriented
organization, and the staff was been responsive to consultations and proceeded with related implementation
- 14 -



in a timely and effective manner. Relevant training was provided during implementation to equip them with
the latest operational and system management methods. However, in the areas of institutional development
and financial management the company's performance was "Unsatisfactory". This contributed to the
financial crisis in 1999 and 2000 being more serious than it would otherwise have been. PEC Katowice's
overall performance is therefore rated as "Satisfactory".
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower is rated as "Satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
General: The Katowice District Heat and Conservation Project has been a large and complex project with
five different municipalities involved, ownership discussions, and administrative and legal problems about
such issues as right of way and authorization. This caused initial delays in the implementation of the
project, but as soon as these obstacles had been removed, the investment portion of the project was highly
successful, and the objectives were achieved.
The financial and institutional sides of the project were not equally successful. Contrary to the other DH
projects in Poland, PEC Katowice did not address these aspects of the project in a proactive way. This, in
combination with the tariff-setting framework in which they worked, resulted in delayed and inadequate
tariff increases. Unlike the other DH companies, the regulator had made PEC Katowice use a very complex
tariff structure with more than 60 tariff categories for which costs and revenues had to be calculated. (To
put this in the correct context, it must be noted that the neighboring DH company in Krakow, MPEC, had
only 7 tariff categories.) The key lessons learned concem: (a) demand forecasts; (b) tariff policies, (c)
financial covenants, (d) entity financial management, (e) corporate governance, (f) institutional
development, (g) reallocation of substation benefits, and (h) involvement of local CHP.
Demand Forecasts: (see section 5.1, Ordered Heat Load, Heat Demand) The demand forecast of this
Project was too optimistic. The project period coincided with heat conservation measures not fully
anticipated at appraisal, a recessional period in the Katowice region, as the Ministry of Finance pointed
out in its pre-review, and unexpectedly mild winters. However, in a dynamnic company, demand forecasts
must be constantly reviewed and immediate action taken to adjust to new factors. Deviations from
previous forecasts should be analyzed and acted upon and high quality heat sales projections should be
used during the annual budget process when figures are to be revised. Further, the regulatory agency
should be made aware that seemingly positive actions such as requiring the DHE to inform and negotiate
new tariff increases with each customer might have a serious impact on the company's financial viability in
the short term.
Tariff Policies: (see section 5.2, and 4.4) Tariffs must be set at a level where it is possible for a company
to recover all its costs, including a reasonable return on total assets. DH systems are capital intensive and
have high fixed costs which make them vulnerable to decline in heat demand and the need to have a correct
base for tariff-setting. Among other things, having correct fixed assets values is vital. The rate of return on
fixed assets must, at least, reflect the cost of debt financing. During appraisal it was not possible to
estimate the value of the fixed assets but an operating ratio of 90 percent was assumed to be a prerequisite
for a financially viable project. This did not materialize either during the Ministry of Finance's years as
tariff-setter or during the first years of the new regime with URE as the regulatory agency. In the case of
Katowice, the negative effect of this was not severe during the years when the debt financing was
insignificant, but became increasingly apparent as the company's long term debt was increased by 85
- 15 -



percent between 1998 and 1999. The steep increase in the debt/equity ratio that this led to meant that a
return on total assets of -2.3 percent due to the will result in a return on equity of -17 percent. Even though
this situation is not yet critical for PEC Katowice's survival (on condition it obtains a capital injection from
the owner in combination with reasonable tariffs), it is serious enough to be a strong warning. The
regulations must be based on market economic principles and sector specificities such as capital intensity
must be taken into consideration.
Financial Covenants: (see section 4.4, Financial Performance) A Bank task force team should be formed
to examine the issue of financial covenants and to recommend new guidelines. According to the Loan
Agreement for this project "flmds from internal sources" include "reduction in working capital other than
cash." This means that increases in short-term loans, promissory notes, and the current portion of the
World Bank Loan are all defined as funds from internal sources. For this reason, the internal cash
generation covenant is an unsatisfactory covenant in situations where there is a surplus of liquidity in the
banking system and a regulatory agency approving tariffs. As the Bank guidelines for financial covenants
are now out of print and have not been changed since the beginning of the 1 980s, when the Bank was
operating in a completely different environment where there was a shortage of cash and a different
regulatory framework, the key ratios recommended by the Bank are no longer appropriate.
Entity Financial Management: (see section 5.3, Institutional Development, and section 7.2, Supervision)
PEC Katowice would have benefited greatly from having a strong Company Financial Officer (CFO) who
could have coordinated all financial issues. Because energy utilities are technology oriented (see section
5.3, High Level of Technical Skills Experienced), their managements accept the need for modem
technology, but are reluctant to give financial management the correct priority. One reason for this attitude
has been that, historically, financial staff have had very low status in the company management structure
and their views have not carried sufficient weight. Therefore, even though comprehensive training of the
company's management and specialists and the introduction of a modem accounting system at an early
phase of the project are crucial, it is probably just as important that corporate culture is changed so that a
strong CFO is part of the senior management to provide a balance to the technical management and to be
able to stop or slow down the investment program if needed, to review it from a financial point of view, and
be responsible for tariff-setting and presentation to the regulator, and so forth. Further, the CFO would be
able to channel information from financial and accounting specialists to the senior management more
effectively than they are able to by themselves..
Corporate Governance: One of the assumptions made prior to the project beginning was that the company
would be corporatized and the ownership transferred to the five municipalities it serves. This did not
materialize and the voivodeship is still the owner. Thus, during most of the project period, ownership was
unclear and the senior management of the company spent a great deal of time in making agreements with
representatives of the municipalities on the issues of ownership, strategy and development. One of the
effects was that the management spent too little time on the institutional, commercial and financial
development of the company. A corporatized company with a strong supervisory board would most likely
have focused on and been able to enforce financial and institutional development at an early stage.
Institutional Development: (see section 5.3, Institutional Development) PEC Katowice, as other utilities in
the region, is a technically oriented operations and maintenance (O&M) organization. The managements of
these utilities are dominated by technical staff, and a number of functions necessary for commercial success
such as strategic planning, financial management, marketing and customer relations, etc., are given low
priority. In Katowice, even when this lack of attention to necessary functions was continuously brought to
their attention by Bank staff during the entire project period, the company management failed to address
them satisfactorily. The lesson learned from this project is that a working corporate governance should be
- 16 -



in place, even if it is an interim solution, when the project begins.
Reallocation of Substation Benefits: (see section 4.2, Investment Component) There should be a fair
allocation of substation benefits between the DHE and the customers. Rehabilitation of substations fully
benefits the customer but may lead the DHE to financial problems, as has extensively happened in Poland.
DHEs rehabilitate the consumer substations because they comprise an integral part of the DH system
operation and are key elements in energy conservation. From a financial point of view, however, the
substation is beyond heat metering and thus lower energy consumption of substations directly reduces the
customers' heat bill. A fair allocation of benefits could be achieved by transferring the substations to
customers' ownership by means of a leasing/purchase agreement, that will fully repay the costs of
substation investments to the DHE, or by invoicing a maintenance fee that will cover not only the O&M
costs of the substation owned by the DHE, but also a slice of accrued energy conservation benefits.
Involvement of Local CHP: (see section 5.3, Competition Among Heat Sources) The local CHP plant
should be involved in optimizing the DH/CHP system by reducing costs of heat that can be simply done by
reallocation of costs between generated electric power and heat, or by participating in marketing
campaigns. The fact is that CHP production fully depends on heat demand: declining heat demand shrinks
volume of co-generated power. The CHP involvement should be organized by a cooperation agreement, in
case only one CHP plant is connected to the DH system, or by competition between the heat sources if
more than one CHP plant is connected.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrovver/implemenzting agency:
The Bank ICR mission undertook a Dynamic Group Evaluation exercise at PEC Katowice in November,
2000. Approximately 25 managers, staff and trade unions representatives participated. However, the
company has not followed up on this exercise and has declined the Bank's offer to incorporate written
feedback into the ICR. The reasons are that the entire senior management and the staff in the foreign
relations department have been dismissed, and the company did not therefore have anybody who could
prepare the written assessment.
The main items of the verbal feedback from the exercise participants given during the ICR mission in
November was as follows:
(a)    The Loan Agreement was criticized as being too inflexible for project implementation and without
possibilities to re-negotiate the terms and conditions. The covenant regarding intemal cash generation was
too restrictive. The amount of the loan was too high and beyond the financial capabilities of the enterprise.
(b)    The preparation of technical documentation was laborious and time consuming. In the course of
implementation, the main contractors were not always capable of coordinating the local subcontractors to
keep the strict time schedule. In some foreign contracts lack of local aftersales service capacity hampered
operation and maintenance of equipment.
(c)    The district heating system benefited from modem heating techniques by reduced losses and
enhanced maintenance and operation but because of the biased tariff system the benefits of investments
went to the customers, leaving PEC Katowice with insuffient financial resources to manage its operations
and debt service. This was said to be especially true of consumer substations, but also for other
investments.
The new management of PEC Katowice submited written comments on the ICR. In general, PEC
- 17 -



Katowice considers the ICR "as objective and agree with the majority of presented conclusions....."
Most of the Company's comments have been incorporated into the main text of the ICR. However, the
Company stressed that the heat demand forecasts at the time of appraisal were too high as the speed with
which heat conservation measures had an effect was not fully anticipated and indicates that this influenced
the size of the investment program (see "Section 8, Lessons Learned, Demand Forecasts").
The Ministry of Financie has submitted the following comments:
- 18 -



REPUBLIC OF POLAND                                       Warsaw, 11 May 2001
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Guarantee Department
DG I S-5 1424 i 45541 2001
Mr. Enar Wennerstrom
Sr. Financial Analyst
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
1818 H. Stret N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433,
United States of America
Subject Comments on Implementatfon Completion Report for the Katowice Heat Supply
Projec (3809-POL)
Dear Mr. Wennerstrom,
I would like to thank you for asking for corimt nts on Implementation Completion Report for
the Katowice Heat Supply Project.
The Ministry of Fnance Is very satisfied that the PEC Katowice's technical update has been
finalized successfully despite serious financial difficulties. The necessary modemization of
the enterprise is significant, and it was needed in the circumstances of the market reality
changes taking place after the transformation process had begun. Satisfactory technical
completion of the investment without the guarantee having been called Is the fact that we
particularly appreciate.
In addition to the tariffs problems it seems tha; there have been also some other reasons of
PEC Katowice's critical situation in 1999 and 2000. Modem technology that entored the
country after 1989 and elasticity of demand for energy and heat higher than expected have
made it difficult for the enterprise to comply with the demand forecasts. Moreover, the region
of PEC Katowice's activity had been facing economic troubles for a couple of years. and it
- 19 -



had been a hard task to the enterprise to achieve the financial goats also for that reason. As
the energy market is supposed to become more liberalized and further development of high
technology is likely to continue, we agree that the paradigm of the enterprise and Its financial
models should encompass market orientation In intemal and extemal policies, to make
predictons and planning the most effective.
We believe that continuous improvement will be present not only in the technical area but
also in the field of management and finance of PEC Katowice. we agree that this should
embrace the estabUshment of a market oriented company culture, with particular attention to
pushing finance functions up to a higher position in company's organizational scheme.
Strategic thinking, relating to management, operations and structure, seem to be also very
important, especially in the view of changes in the energy sector In Poland. Eventually, we
would like to pay spedai attention to Quality Assurance System (IS09X02), development of
which has been stopped by the enterprise. The QAS can be very helpful. inter alia In creating
and preserving adequate culture and quality of the management
We hope that, from now on. extemal factors will stimulate the development of PEC Katowice
rather than have negative influence on its financial condition. Ho-wever, the need for taking
proper care of company's organIzational aspects and for stressing the importance of financial
issues is an essential challenge for PEC Katowice in the sector undergoing changes.
If the Ministry of Finance can be of any fur he: assistance, your questions and opinions will
be very welcomed.
Yours sincerely,
Ary
FP lo Sawicki, Director
TOTAL P. 12
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
Additional information is in the Project Files and listed in Annex 7.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Performance Indicators - Institutional
________________________________                   .Katowice                               4  Cities
1 Quality Assurance System                                                     Implemented (Gdansk) or under processing
(ISO 9000)                                     Initiated but stopped                  (Krakow, Gdynia)
2 Environmental Management
System (ISO 14000)                                 Not initiated           _ntitated in Gdansk
3 Marketing Department
In operation                          In operation
4 Management Information System
Under implementation                  Under implementation
Performance Indicators - Physical
Katowice                                  4 Cities
Unit   1991-1992      2000      Diff.             1991-1992     1999     Chan e
Direct Customer Benefits
Heat price in 1999 level        PLN/m2      55.0        21.4     -62%    W. aver.    54.5         24.5      0/.
Sold heat energy                 GJ/m'      1.25        0.84             W. aver.    1.13        0.93      .48%
Metering (from total sales)       %         30%   '      100%/Q          W. aver.    21%         100%/.
A  Coal Savings (net)
Coal consumtion w/o project     th. tons    480         500       4%       Sum        4,363      4,873      12%
Coal consumtion with Project    th. tons    480         382      -20%      Sum        4,362      3,778     43%
Coal savings above              th. tons                118       2        Sum                   1,095     -22%
Coal savings in SAR/94                         137                            SAR191:   760
Heat transmission loss from
supplied heat                     %        14.7%       12.2% 0           W. aver.   18.0% 9.9/                .
Heat substation loss from sold
heat energy                       %        18.0%       7.1%a%1%          W.aver.   15.3%         9.1%1%
HoB Elimination, in terms of
# Boiler capacity:
Existing owned by PEC            MW        250.9       78.7     .69%       Sum       548.4       268.3    -.lY
Connected to DH                  MW                     171.1              Sum                   166.8
Converted to gas/oil             MW                     1.1          *     Sum                    92.2
Other investors/Ownership changes                                          Sum                   21.1
- 22 -



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Katowice                                  4 Cities
1991-1992    2000                        1991-1992     1999
# Number of boilers:
Existing owned by PEC            Units      131         48       -63%      Sum        667        244       -63
Connected to DH                  Units                  80                 Sum                   296
Converted to gas/oil             Units                   3                 Sum                    136
Other investors/Ownership chang s                                          Sum                    -9
B  Extended Lifetime
Network, remaining               years      22.7        26.1      15%    W. aver.    11.0        16.1      46%
Substations, remaining           years      10.0        14.8     48%    W. aver.    10.0         15.8      58%
Water loss                      th. m3/a    775         430      45%       Sum       14,700      5,127     .65
Water volume revolutions        times/a     10.5        5.8      .45%    W. aver.    22.6         8.2      -64%
C  Electricity Gains
CHP heat/total heat capacity      %         300/o      74%       150%    W. aver.    51%         53%       4%
CHP heat energy/total heat energ  %         15%        27%       80%    W. aver.    71%          76%       7%.
Punmping energy/Heat energy     kWh/GJ      4.4         4.2      -4%     W. aver.    4.4          4.1      -7%
D  Productivity Improvement
Staffing (entire company)        prsns        1,131      1,099   -3%       Sum       6,571      4,498     -32%
Sold heat energy/staff          TJ/prsn     6.4         6.0      -7%    W. aver.    10.3         13.8      34%
Wages and benefits in total cost  %         8.9         13.0     46%    W. aver.    6.7%        10.0%/0    49%
E  Other Features
Ordered heat Capacity            MW            934         763  -18%       Sum       8,068       7,105    -11%
Unavailability of heat service  days/a      156          0      -100%   W. aver.    39.9          0.6     .98%
Heat customers                  number        1,356      2,233   65%       Sum       17,073     19,041     12%
Heated floor area               th. m'        7,597      9,450   24%       Sum      63,793      68,565     7%
Peak load duration time           h/a         1,741      2,199   26*   W. aver.         2,776      2,753  -1*%
Heat load density               TJ/km       18.0        14.7     -18#   W. aver.    25.6         22.9     -11%
Order capacity/network length   MW/km       2.8         2.3      .19*#  W. aver.    3.9           3.2     -17%
F  Enissions - Total
S02                 tons        5,371       4,222   -2I%     Sum       96,938     72,099    -26%
NOx                 tons        2,569       2,019  -211%      Sum      35,140      26,157    -26%
C02                 tons     1,541,387   1,211,643   -21%     Sum    11,147,832   8,291,404   -26%
Dust                tons         1,621      1,115  -31%       Sum       13,827      7,609    -4t%
Emissions - HoB's only
S02                 tons          574        185  -68        Sum        6,265      2,120     46%
NO.                 tons          274          89  -681       Sum       2,271       768         ..%
C02                 tons       164,604     53,196  -61%       Sum      720,464    243,638    "66%
Dust                tons          549         202  -63%       Sum       5,926       840      -46%
I) The increased share of CHP was caused by commissioning a back-pressure turbine at Katowice CHP plant in Jan. 2000
- 23 -



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Performance Indicators - Financial
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999   2000
Gross Margin
Katowice Heat Supply Project                      28%    27%    27%    26%    26%   28%    25%    27%
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                      19%    23%    23%    22%    22%   28%    30%    28%
Highest Value                                     32%    40%    42%    32%    34%   32%    32%    36%
Operating Ratio
Katowice Heat Supply Project                    93.1%  93.7%  94.9%  96.4%  96.7% 96.9%  105.5% 101.9%
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                     88.1%  89.8%  92.7%  93.0%  91.5% 96.8%  95.0%  96.9%
Highest Value                                   97.7% 105.8%  99.5%  102.3%  99.9% 98.2%  99.6%  99.1%
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets
Katowice Heat Supply Project                     9.3%   10.2%   6.5%    3.8%   3.4%  3.1%  -4.5%  -1.4%
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                     3.2%  -6.5%   6.0%   -2.3%   0.1%  2.1%   0.4%   0.9%
Highest Value                                    19.2%  10.7%   6.7%    7.1%   8.9%  3.5%   4.9%   3.1%
Internal Cash Generation
Katowice Heat Supply Project                      70%    92%    22%    63%    42%   33%    31%         5%
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                      17%    29%    37%       9%    52%   33%    30%    30%
Highest Value                                     91%    67%    83%    87%   113%   69%   145%   113%
Debt Service Coverage
Katowice Heat Supply Project                                       25      11      6      5      1    0.9
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                      14.7   -4.6       3     1.4    1.1   1.6    1.8    1.9
Highest Value                                     44.1   54.4   17.2   18.6    5.8   4.9    3.6    3.7
Number of days of Accounts Receivable
Katowice Heat Supply Project                       105    105    100    102       85    84      65     65
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                        75     60      52     57      37    52      44     38
Highest Value                                      119     93      95     78      59    74      75      82
Current Ratio
Katowice Heat Supply Project                       1.1    1.2    1.4    1.2    1.2   1.1    0.8    1.1
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conversation Project:
Lowest Value                                       1.1    0.9    0.9    0.8    0.6   0.7    0.8    0.9
Highest Value                                      4.0    3.9    2.5    2.2    2.3   1.5    1.9    1.9
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US million equivalent)                        
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    USS million
Goods                                               43.80          35.90
Services                                             1.70           0.70
Total Baseline Cost                                 45.50          36.60
Physical Contingencies                              6.60
Price Contingencies                                 4.30
Total Project Costs            56.40           36.60
Total Financing Required             56.40          36.60
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)  ._._.
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Othero        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    47.00         0.00         44.20         0.00        91.20
(31.30)      (0.00)       (12.50)       (0.00)      (43.80)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.70         0.00         1.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
.___________________  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     47.00         0.00        45.90         0.00        92.90
(31.30)      (0.00)       (13.70)       (0.00)      (45.00)
-25 -



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalet)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB           Other          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         34.80            0.00           1.10           0.00          35.90
(34.80)         (0.00)         (1. 10)         (0.00)        (35.90)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.70           0.00           0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.70)         (0.00)        (0.70)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         34.80            0.00           1.80           0.00          36.60
(34.80)         (0.00)         (1.80)          (0.00)        (36.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
* Cancelled $8,357,335.16 loan amount.
- 26 -



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Project Sources and Uses of Funds (US$ million equivalent)
Life of Life of
Description                  1992  1993  1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Project Project
(Actual (SAR)
Sources of Funds
IBRD                             -     -  2.1  3.2  2.7  4.4  5.1  13.6  5.5   36.6   45.0
PEC Katowice                   1.5   2.1  1.4  3.4  2.7  3.4  4.9  2.6  1.0   23.0   47.9
Total                          1.5   2.1  3.5  6.6  5.4  7.8  10.0  16.2  6.5   59.6   92.9
Uses of Funds
Network Rehabilitationand      1.2   1.0  1.3  3.0  3.1  2.4  5.1  7.0  3.1   27.2   26.5
Replacement.
SubstationRetrofit,            0.2   0.9  0.8  1.6  0.8  3.1  2.7  2.6  2.5   15.2   28.8
Automation&Metering
Network Sectioning System        -     -  0.8  1.2  1.0  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3    4.0    5.3
Networking, Monitoringand        -     -    -    -    -  0.4  0.8  1.3  0.6    3.1    5.3
Disp. System
Conversion Program               -     -    -  0.2  0.2  1.7  1.1  5.0        -    8.2   12.6
Technical Assistance             -     -  0.3  0.1  0.3  0.1       -    -    -    0.8    1.7
Import Duties and Taxes        0.1   0.2  0.3  0.5      -    -    -    -    -    1.1   12.7
Total                          1.5   2.1  3.5  6.6  5.4  7.8  10.0  16.2  6.5   59.6   92.9
- 27 -



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
The table below compares the materialized project components to those designed in the SAR and
verifies the equipment unit costs where applicable.
Quantities                   Costs               Unit Costs (iflCl.
Project Component                                      Rcall   (U.S.S mInI    Real/ C'onCtics & taxs)      RealV
Real      SKR      SAR    Real  S *R    SAR          Real     s IU     SAR
A.   Preinsulated Pipes (km, single)      146      167       88%     27.3   23.1   118%       189.58     82.49  104%
(including components)
B.   Substations                          447      783       57%     13.9   24.5   57%         31.76     41.05   77%
B.l Conversion to Compact Substations    447      491      91%
B.2 Automation, Control & Metering                292      O0/o
C.   Network Sectioning                                               4.0    5.0   81%
C.] Big Bellow Compensators               66       140     47%       0.3    0.2               4.85       2.28  213%
C.2 Sectioning Bull Valves              8,523    1.063     802%       1.6    3.3              0.19      4.101  5%
C.3 Sectioning Flap Valves               236       104     227%      2.1    1.4               9.00      1 66   51%
D.   Monitoring& Dispatching                                          4.3    6.4   67%
D.1 Heat/FlowMetersforNetwork             21        38      55%       0.5     1.9             22.46     67.14   33%
D.2 Steam Meters                                     2      0%                1.0L                     U%6.58   0%/0
D.3 PressureDifferential Valves         1,123       68     1651%      0.6    0.4               0.58      7.72   7%
D.4 Circulation Pumps                    276         4    69000/o    1.2    1.0               4.50    31 Y8   1%
D.5 Network Strainers                     -         II      00/0     -       (09                       107.44   0%
D.6 Central Control Units                 -         38      0/       0.2    1.3                         43.20   00/o
D. 7 Pumping station                        1 I                       1.8    -
E.   Small Boiler Conwrsion -            106.1       67     158%      8.2   10.0   82%
EIimination Program (MW')                                                                78.63    196.96   40%o
F.   Technical Assistance                    2                                              _ 100%  |  0.8    1.6   470/D
G.   Total Base Costs :                                              585   70.7   83%
EL   CONTINGENCIES                                                    -       1.9   0%
L    IMPORT DUTIES AND TAXES                                           1.0   11.2   9%__
J    TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                             59.6   92.9   64%
* SAR - StaffAppraisal Report dated 31.03.1994.
Program ofemission abatement during 1992 - 2000 caused elimination of 81 HoB's with capacity 103.9 MW.
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The benefits of the Project were calculated following the same methodology than in the SAR and as was
done with the four other cities. The project's EIRR at completion is 39%, compared to 26% at appraisal.
Summary of Benefits                                                       PEC         Other four
Katowice         cities
EIRR
WITHOUT environmental benefits                                        25%             44%
WITH environmental benefits                                           39%             74%
NPV (10%)
WITHOUT environmental benefits              million US$                30             533
WITH environmental benefits                 million US$                47             760
Distribution of above Benefits:
From 1992  to 2000       Share           Share
A  Coal Savings                                                           49%             33%
B  DH System  Life Extension                                              13%             30%
C  Electricity Gains                                                       0%             6%
D  Staffing                                                                5%             3%
E  Other Quantitative Benefits                                            21%             7%
D  Air Pollution Abatement (Low Level Sources)                            13%             22%
Total:      100%           100%
The table below offers a comparison between the benefits expected in the SAR in 1994 and those
materialized in 2000.
Benefit                         SAR    Real               Explanation
Energy savings                  7,971    6,906 Coal savings 118 instead of 138 th. tons/a
Network life extension           1,698    1,342
Reduction in O&M Costs            902      158
Reduction in labor Costs          558     691
Reduction in network water losses  354    318
System down sizing                       1,499 Heat purchase capacity drop 163 MW
Unbreakable DHW supply                   1,505 Elimination of 165 days' summer break
Air pollution abatement         4,648    1,801 Less coal savings and improved coal
quality than expected at appraisal
TOTAL                          16,131   14,220
Difference                              (1,911)
The scheme below illustrated the efficiency increase in the main network supplied by the two major CHP
plants. Based on the implemented DH optimization program, the total efficiency from the fuel input to the
end-user of heating services has increased from 59.4% to 69.3%.
- 29 -



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
IndMdual
Heat producion                                                     cons. Substabon
Group
Ep              _sGrwp_a_ _n    Eo
Heat transrrission        s                 __
lS I           CS _I                       PM Kgowice
Katow ice
Er                                 Ew I       EVY2                      1992   2001
0  Real heat derrand        Eb         Real heat sales based on meter readings in 1999         6,550   6,550 TJ
1  Substation efficiency   EoEW2       N'bdem substation reducing open window losses           82.0%   9Z.9%
2  Distribubon efficiency   EwNZEB  1   Mbdem secondary piping reducing DHW and SH bsses      100.0%/0 100.0%
3  Transrrission efficiency  vI1/ a    Reinsulated pipelines and fitings reducing transnission losses    85.2%   87.80%
4  Roduction efficiency     E/i        Heat from main sources                                  85.00/%  85.0%
5  Total system effidency  EOEp                                                               59.4%   69.3%
6  Fuel consumpion                                                                            11,029   9,447 TJ
7  Fueli Energy Savirgs                                                                                1,582 TJ
Coal equivalent                                                                                24.3  GJAon
8  Fuel savings in coal equivalents                                                                    65.1  th. tons
The coal savings in the main network have amounted to 65.1 thousand tons of coal per annum. This
together with the coal savings from the HoB elimination measures of 50.3 thousand tons and other savings
of 2.5 thousand tons amount to 1 18 thousand tons savings in the entire system.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:   .. 
_____ of Prject Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfornancc Rating
._.e o__  -------f Pr                __a_i_ng
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count        | Specialtv                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/04/87                    1   EGR, E, FA, ES
02/21/88                     1   EGR, E, FA
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/92                       1   PFA, EP, E, ENG, ES
03/93                        1   PFA, EP, ENG
04/09/93                     1   PFA, LC, SFA, DO
Supervision
01/05/95                     1   EP, PFA                            HS            HS
07/01/96                     1   EP, PE, DHE, E                     HS            HS
06/25/97                     1  EP, FA, DHEcon                      HS            HS
07/10/97                     1   EP, FA, DHEcon                      S             S
04/22/98                     1   SFA, DHE                            S             S
03/01/99                     1  SFA, DHE                             S             S
06/10/99                     1   SEP, SFA, DHE                       S             S
09/11/00                     1   SFA,DHE                             S             S
ICR
11/02/00                    I    SFA, DHE
DHE - District Heating Engineer             HTS - Heat Tariff Specialist
DHEcon - District Heating Economist         LC - Legal Counsel
DO - Disbursement Officer                   PFA - Prin. Financial Analyst
E - Economist                               SEP - Sr. Energy Planner
ENG - Engineer                              SFA - Sr. Financial Analyst
Energy Planner                              FA - Financial Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Projeet Cyclc                   Actual/Latest E:stimate
No. Staff weeks              U SS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                3.3                        11.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    55.6                       185.0
Supervision                              10.2                        28.4
ICR                                       5.2                        25.8
Total                                    74.3                       250.7
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
r Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
*K Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                             OH *SUOM ON ONA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)            * H  O) SU O M  O N  O NA
85% of the economic benefits of the project
were transferred to the heat customers through
lower tariffs.
L Private sector development               O H  O SU 0           ON  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
CJ Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
E Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
U Supervision                                         * HS O  S   Q U  O-HU
U Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
OI Government implementation performance              OHS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   OU  OHU
U Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Quarterly Project Management Reports
Performance Indicators
Audited Annual Financial Statements, IAS (1995 - 1999)
Annual Audit Reports (1995 - 1999)
Comments from Mr. Piotr Sawicki, Ministry of Finance
Comments from Mr. Tadeusz Starkiewicz, Administrative Receiver, PEC Katowice
- 34 -



