Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 11814-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 1, 1994
Energy and Enviromnent Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit  : Zloty (Zl)
(Average Rates)
June
1989    1990    1991      1992      1993      1994
US$1   -    ZL    4,000   9,500   11,100   13,630   17,000    22,500
WEIGHTS AND  MIEASURES
(Metric and International Systems)
Gcal        Gigacalorie (one million kilocalories)
GJ          Gigajoule (0.034 tons of coal equivalent or 109 joule)
kcal        Kilocalorie (4187 joule)
kW          Kilowatt
MWe         Megawatt electric (1,000 kilowatts)
MWt         Megawatt thermal (0.86 Gcal/h)
PJ          Petajoule (34,129 tons of coal equivalent or 1015 joule)
TJ          Terajoule (34.1 tons of coal equivalent or 1012 joule)
TOE         Ton of oil equivalent (1.54 tons of coal equivalent, or 45.1 GJ)
ABBREVIATIONS
CHP         Combined Heat and Power Plant
CFC         Chloro-Fluoro Carbon
DH          District Heating
DHE         District Heating Enterprise
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
EU          European Union
FGD         Flue Gas Desulfurization
FSU         Former Soviet Union
HOB         Heat-Only Boiler
PEC         Przedsiebiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej (District Heating Enterprise)
SECAL       Sector Adjustment Loan
WPEC        Voivodship District Heating Enterprise (Katowice)
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  vii
PART I - INTRODUCTION  .1...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  l
PART II - THE ENERGY SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              2
A. Economic Significance                     ..                                                 2
B. Sector Restructuring..                                                                      3
a. Development Policy.                                                                 3
b.   Demonopolization,  Commercialization and Restructuring  . .                       4
c. Energy Pricing.                                                                     4
d. Energy Regulatory Framework                      ..                                         5
C. Heat Sector.                                                                                6
D. Environmental Aspects                     ..                                                7
E. Bank Sector Assistance Strategy.                                                            8
PART III  - THE BORROWER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
A. Heat Market ..............                                                                O10
B. Organization and Management .11
C.   Commercialization and Privatization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
D.   Metering,  Billing and Collection   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
E. Network Optimization Program .14
F.   Energy Conservation and Efficiency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
T1is report b based on the finin  of an appraisal midon which visited Poland in March 1993. The mision cemprised Messrs. H.
Bun (Task Manager), R. Benmemaoud (Energy Planner), J. Cal (Econonist/Flnandal Analyst). Contributon to the report were made
by H. Schreiber (Environmentdal Economist) and B. Baratz (Environmental Expert). Ihe report wa isued by the Energy and
Environment Division (B. Montfort, Chief) of the Central Europe Department (K. Dervl, Director).



- iv -
PART IV - THE  PROJECT   ......  ..  ..  .              ..  ..  ..  .    ..  ..  .   .   .    15
A.  Project Objectives and Scope   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
B.  Environmental Aspects  ......  ..                 ........  ..  ..            .    16
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
D.  Procurement Arrangements   ......  .              .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .   .    19
E.  Disbursements  .........                   . ..............   .    22
F.  Implementation Arrangements  .....  .               . .......  .        .  .   .    22
G.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
PART V - FINANCIAL  ASPECTS ......  .               .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .    23
A.  Past Performance and Present Position . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
B.  Future Financial Performance   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    25
PART VI - BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT .....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
A.  Project Benefits   ......  .             .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .    27
B.  Project   Costs   .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  28
C.  Economic Rate of Return ......  ..  .               ..  .   ..  ..  .   ..    .    28
D.  Risks .......................                                    .....       .    29
PART VII - AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS   ..................                            .   29



ANNEXES
Annex 1-1          Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 2-1          National Energy Balance
Annex 2-2          Energy Pricing
Annex 2-3          Katowice: Environmental Aspects
Annex 3-1          Heat Capacity Balance
Annex 3-2   :      PEC Operating Statistics
Annex 3-3          PEC Organization Chart
Annex 4-1   :      Project Description
Annex 4-2          Project Costs
Annex 4-3   :      Procurement Schedule for Major Equipment Items
Annex 4-4          Disbursements Schedule
Annex 4-5          Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5-1          PEC Tariffs
Annex 5-2   :      Forecast Financial Statements, 1993-2000
Annex 6-1          Economic Rate of Return Calculation
MAP                IBRD - 24844






POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          PEC-Katowice, the Katowice District Heating Enterprise.
Guarantor:         Republic of Poland.
Amount:            US$45 million equivalent.
Terms:             17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:        The  project's  objectives  are  to:  (a)  enhance  energy
conservation and efficiency in the district heating sector;
(b) extend the life of existing district heating assets
through   rehabilitation   and   introduction   of   modern
technologies,   thereby   significantly   reducing   capital
expenditures and operating and maintenance costs; and (c)
reduce environmental pollution through investments in energy-
efficient equipment and systems as well as by supporting a
program  to  eliminate  coal-fired  heat-only boilers.    The
project would support implementation of the Government's
ongoing energy sector restructuring program.
Proiect
Description:       The project comprises : (a) an investment component consisting
of investments in equipment to optimize the existing district
heating  system;   and  (b)  technical  assistance  through
consultancy services, studies and staff training.
Benefits:          The project would have a rate of return of 26%.  The economic
benefits have been estimated in the following categories: (a)
energy savings; (b) network life extension; (c) reduction in
operating and maintenance costs; (d) reduction in labor costs;
(e) reduction in water losses; and (f) air pollution
abatement.
Risks:             The main risk associated with the project is the possibility
of delayed increases in heat prices needed to generate the
appropriate enterprise cash flow levels and to ensure that
consumers receive the proper economic signals. This risk is
manageable, given the Government's past record with regard to
energy price reform and the limited impact on the economic
viability of the project resulting from delayed implementation
due to shortages in counterpart funds, if any. The economic
benefits of the investments, if undertaken in the sequence
suggested by the optimization program, are not significantly
affected by delayed implementation, since the quantities of
energy savings and other benefits would be the same, except
obtained over a longer period. The risk of declining demand



- viii -
has been adequately addressed in this project, since it
assumes an 8% decline in demand through the year 2000. A more
rapid decline is unlikely, given the cost of insulating
buildings and equipping them with internal controls, as well
as  the  scope  for  eliminating  more  HOBs.    The  risk  of
procurement  delays  has  been  minimized  by:   (a)  the
establishment of a procurement unit within PEC, which has
already awarded several contracts under Bank procedures; and
(b) tight reporting schedules on project implementation
progress during supervision.
Poverty
Category:         Not applicable.



- ix -
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Local     Foreign      Total
Network Rehabilitation & Replacement                       11.0        12.4      23.4
Substation Retrofit, Automation & Metering                  6.1        19.3      25.4
Network Sectioning Systems                                  2.1         2.6       4.7
Network Monitoring, Interconnection & Dispatching System    1.6        3.1        4.7
Boiler Elimination & Conversion Program                     3.7         7.4      11.1
Technical Assistance                                        0.4         1.1       1.5
BASE COSTS                             24.9        45.9       70.8
Physical Contingencies                                      2.3        4.3        6.6
Price Contingencies                                         1.5         2.8       4.3
Import Duties and Taxes                                    11.2                  11.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          39.9        S3,0      92.9
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                                                                   45.0      45.0
PEC                                                        39.9         8.0      47.9
TOTAL                                39.9       53.0       92.9
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
[BRID FY
FY95    FY96       FY97      FY98       FY99      FY2000
Annual                        4.5      7.2       12.6      16.2        3.6        0.9
Cumulative                    4.5     11.7       24.3      40.5       44.1       45.0
Percentage                    10%      26%       54%        90%       98%        100%
Economic Rate of Return: 26%
Mas                       :  IBRD-24844






PART I - INTRODUCTION
1.    Following introduction of its Economic Transformation Program in 1990, the
Polish Government sought Bank assistance to develop an energy policy that would
enhance efficiency and increase competition in the sector.   Implementation
started with the Energy Resource Development Project (Loan 3215-POL), followed
by the Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loans 3377/83-POL),
in particular the Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) of that project (Loan 3377-POL).
The SECAL supported a comprehensive energy sector restructuring program,
including  price  liberalization,   demonopolization,   commercialization  and
privatization of energy sector enterprises where possible, and introduction of
a sound and consistent regulatory framework between network fuels.
2.    The US$340 million Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project was
approved by the Board on June 26, 1991. It consisted of seven loans (Loans 3377
through 3383-POL), of which five were to district heating enterprises (DHEs), one
to a commercial bank, and one to the Government of Poland for the energy SECAL.
3.    One of the five loans to DHEs was Loan 3380-POL  (US$55 million) to WPEC-
Katowice, the Katowice voivodship's DHE. However, just prior to loan signature
on September 16, 1991, the large regional WPEC-Katowice system was broken up into
eleven independent entities. This action was taken by the Voivod of Katowice
pursuant to the May 1991 Law on the Municipalities which provides, inter alia,
for the transfer of ownership of state-owned enterprises to the municipalities
they serve.
4.    In September 1991 a Bank mission visited the Katowice region to identify
the possible successor borrower(s) to WPEC-Katowice.   Since a condition of
presenting the original project to the Board had been preparation of a core
master plan for the borrowing DHEs, the Bank focused on those entities that were
covered by the Katowice core master plan: Katowice (city), Chorzow and Gliwice.
These areas were served, since the break-up of WPEC, by three new entities: PEC-
Katowice (city); PEC-Chorzow/Ruda Slaska; and PEC-Gliwice.
5.    The Bank staff concluded that PEC Gliwice was too weak to qualify for a
separate Bank loan at this stage. The staff also concluded that a Bank loan to
the remaining two entities would be most beneficial if the adjacent systems of
Katowice and Chorzow (excluding Ruda Slaska) were merged, because a hydraulically
interconnected system between these two would result in improved dispatching and
thus substantial energy savings and decreased environmental pollution.   The
merger of PEC-Katowice and PEC-Chorzow took place effective April 1, 1992. The
new entity is called PEC-Katowice.
6.    Due  to  the  time  it  took  to  complete  the  merger  and  associated
administrative measures, plus lengthy subsequent delays in the Government's
issuing approval of the draft Guarantee Agreement for the Loan due to
legal/technical problems, the Bank and the Government eventually agreed that too
much time had lapsed since the original presentation of the project to the Board
of Directors to attempt to devise revised project arrangements under the original
Loan. Hence, in agreement with the Government the original Loan 3380-POL for the
Katowice region was withdrawn in early 1993 and a separate and new project was
prepared.   However, because the Government was not able to obtain guarantee



- 2 -
authority for the project under its 1993 budget, the projeLt needed to be further
postponed to 1994.
7.    The total project cost is US$93 million and the amount of the proposed Bank
loan is US$45 million. The Bank would finance 85% of the foreign exchange costs
of the project, or 48% of the total costs. Local costs and part of the foreign
exchange costs would be covered by the Borrower's net internal cash generation.
8.    Additional documents and more detailed information concerning the sector
and the project are available in the Project File (Annex 1-1).
PART 11 - THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Economic Significance
9.    The energy sector is one of the largest sectors of the Polish economy.
Energy intensity is estimated to be about 1.6 times as high as in European OECD
countries on a purchasing power of currency estimate of GDP basis and five times
as high per unit of GDP, although per capita energy consumption is at about 60%
of the OECD level. New energy pricing policies, introduced starting in 1990,
have led to price levels and structures that are now beginning to provide
incentives for energy conservation and efficiency. The Government is no longer
providing funding for energy sector investments.   The more efficient energy
enterprises are beginning to have cash flows which, although inadequate to
finance major investment requirements, allow them to self-finance minor
investments. Government subsidies for energy production are now only provided
to a small number of coal mines that are to be closed down, while subsidies for
household consumption of heat have been reduced from 78% in 1991 to about 20% as
of October 1, 1994.  The fiscal impact of these policies has been a dramatic
reduction in energy sector outlays in the Government budget.
10.   Poland's energy sector consists of five subsectors: two energy producing
subsectors (hard coal/lignite and oil/gas), two energy conversion subsectors
(electric power and district heating), and one energy processing subsector (oil
refining).   Together,  they accounted for about 11% of the country's total
investments over the period 1990-1992. The energy sector accounts for about 8%
of GDP and directly employs 4% of the working population.
11.   Energy consumption  in Poland decreased substantially  as the economy
experienced a sharp decline starting in 1990 while energy prices were being
increased significantly. Industrial energy consumption declined by 31% through
1992 primarily due to the contraction in output in many industrial sectors and
closure or downsizing of several major energy-intensive industries. Residential
energy consumption decreased by 14% because of a considerable reduction in real
household incomes and proportionally larger increases in residential energy
prices. Corresponding to this, domestic energy production dropped by 20% for



coal and 25% for natural gas.   Coal exports decreased by almost one third.
Energy imports (mainly oil and natural gas) also decreased considerably due to
the overall decline in domestic energy consumption. As energy prices are moving
towards economic levels, energy consumption patterns are changing: the share of
coal, while still dominant, is declining in final consumption, and the share of
oil and gas is increasing. This process would accelerate when the current supply
constraints on natural gas are relaxed (para 12). Details on energy production
and consumption are in Annex 2-1.
12.   The most crucial issue in energy trade is Poland's dependence on Russia
(via the Ukraine) for all its gas imports. The political situation there, and
its potential impact on gas production and transmission, could interrupt supplies
to Poland. Hence, Poland is actively examining alternative gas supply options
such as supplies coming via a new pipeline through Belarus, the Britannia field
in the North Sea, or supplies from Norway.  These new supplies, however, are
likely to be much more expensive than the price of gas currently supplied by
Russia (although the latter are likely to be revised upwards as well).   The
Government has asked the Bank to review various gas import proposals in order to
determine the least-cost option and advise on the guarantee issues relating to
take-or-pay contracts.
B. Sector Restructuring
a. Development Policy
13.   Under the energy SECAL (Loan 3377-POL) of the Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project, the Government undertook to implement a comprehensive
energy sector restructuring program.   Major changes have been and are being
implemented in the energy sector in order to make it more competitive and viable.
Firstly, most subsectors have been demonopolized and restructured. Secondly,
many of the state-owned enterprises have been converted into joint stock or
limited liability companies. Privatization of selected companies would follow
as soon as possible, but the speed of the process depends on a number of factors
(e.g., political will, allowed return on equity, etc.). Thirdly, energy prices
have been adjusted considerably. Fourthly, a new Energy Law will be introduced
which would, inter alia, put an appropriate regulatory framework into place and
create an Energy Regulatory Agency.   The regulatory framework would aim to
enhance competition, allow open access to new entrants, protect consumers and
avoid distortions in investment decisions between "network" fuels (district heat,
gas and electric power). Good progress was made under the SECAL in energy sector
restructuring. The Bank considered that three of the four conditionalities for
second tranche release had been met and proposed an extension of the loan closing
date from March 31, 1994 to September 30, 1994 in order to enable the Government
to present the draft Energy Law to Parliament. However, the Government allowed
the closing date to lapse. Continued implementation of the Government's energy
sector strategy is important, inter alia, in order to enable private sector
participation in development of the energy sector.
14.    The Bank/ESMAP obtained grant financing from the European Union, the UK
and the US to fund an advisory team of nine foreign and nine Polish experts to



- 4 -
assist the Government in implementation of the program. These experts started
their work mid-November, 1992, supported by counterpart staff from various parts
of the Polish energy sector. Despite the delayed start-up of the advisory team,
changes in Government and reduction and turnover of Government personnel, good
progress has been made in a number of areas. However, further progress needs to
be made in adjusting energy prices towards economic levels and in introducing the
new regulatory framework, and the Bank is continuing its dialogue with the
Government on these issues (paras 18-19).
b. Demonopolization. Commercialization and Restructuring
15.   A February 1993 law transferred the responsibility for commercialization
of the power and coal sectors to the Ministry of Industry. Subsequently, all
coal enterprises were commercialized in March, 1993 and all power sector
enterprises are expected to be commercialized by the end of 1994. Sixty three
coal mines have been grouped into seven commercialized multi-mine companies and
three commercialized single-mine companies. A closure program for 8 out of the
total of 71 mines has been initiated, and part or all of 4-5 other mines is
expected to be slated for closure.   The power sector is demonopolized into
separate transmission, generation and distribution companies. The transmission
company (the Polish Power Grid Company - PPGC) and the 33 distribution companies
have been commercialized, but the 34 generation enterprises not yet. They would
be commercialized after their merger into a small number of competitive
generating companies has taken place. The Polish Oil and Gas Company, the last
remaining monopoly, would be broken up by the end of 1995, initially by
divestiture of service companies, followed by separation of the exploration and
distribution companies.   To enhance competition,  the first exploration and
production licenses were awarded (to AMOCO and British Gas).   However, some
foreign exchange issues still need to be resolved before exploration will start
in earnest.   Licensing rounds for other acreage and for coal-bed methane
exploration and production took place in October 1992 and contracts were signed
by AMOCO (IFC recently made a US$8.7 million equity investment in an AMOCO-
operated coalbed methane project) and McCormick. In the district heating sector,
significant restructuring and commercialization is underway with a new emphasis
on network efficiency improvements, energy conservation, cost reduction and
competitiveness with other heat sources. Finally, in the petroleum sector all
activities (refining, transmission and distribution) are generally still in the
hands of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), although there are some joint ventures
and fully independent companies on the distribution end. The Government is in
the process of defining its position with regard to the future ownership
structure of the petroleum sector.
c. Energy Pricing
16.   Energy price  reform has made major progress  since  1990.    Although
significant further adjustments remain necessary for prices to reach economic
levels, the impact is beginning to be felt in the areas of energy efficiency and
conservation and reduction of pollution. The main elements of the reform include
coal price liberalization, increase of industrial energy prices towards economic



levels, and gradual increases of household energy prices first to the level paid
by industrial consumers and then to levels reflecting economic costs.  After
major price adjustments of all network fuels through January 1, 1992, the
Government slowed down the pace of energy price increases. During 1994, however,
the system of approximately quarterly price adjustments is expected to result in
modest real price increases. Network fuel prices, though still being controlled,
are now on average at about 60% of their estimated economic levels, with
individual fuels ranging from 50-100% depending on tariff categories. Network
fuel tariff studies have been completed under terms of reference and with
consultants satisfactory to the Bank and could provide the Government with
guidance for the economic pricing of network fuels.
17.   Coal prices ex mine, now being set virtually freely by the market, have
almost reached import parity levels (adjusted for quality) following major price
increases during the last quarter of 1993.  In addition, coal mine operating
subsidies have been eliminated, except for those mines that are being closed
down.   Coal export controls have been suspended. As of September 1, 1994,
electricity prices for industry and households are at about 61% and 51% of their
estimated economic levels, respectively. The average residential price is about
138% of the average industrial price (less than 50% in early 1990). The average
gas price for industry is now at 100% of its economic level. The gas price for
households is at 61% of its economic level; it is now at about 140% of the price
for industry (16% in early 1990). District heating contract prices have moved
to about 63% of their economic level and the Government reduced subsidies to
households from 78% in 1991 to about 20% as of October 1, 1994. These subsidies
have already been eliminated in several major cities and are expected to be
eliminated in most of the country by the end of 1995.
18.   Given that the SECAL's pricing conditionality has been met, the Bank and
the Government have started a policy dialogue on how to proceed with price
adjustment from here on to ensure that energy prices would reach economic levels.
It would be realistic to assume that this would take place well after December
31, 1995, the target date previously agreed under Loan 3215-POL for household gas
prices to reach their economic level. A key factor in the Government's decision-
making process about energy pricing should be the fact that most of the resources
for the energy sector's huge investment needs would have to be generated
domestically.  Given the scarcity of budget funds, as well as for reasons of
economic efficiency, these would have to come from the sector's internal cash
flow and from borrowing.  Foreign direct investment also has a vital role to
play, but such capital, as well as internal and external borrowings, will only
be forthcoming if there is a transparent regulatory framework and if energy
prices are allowed to reflect economic costs, or if there is a strong Government
commitment that this aim would be achieved along a well defined path.   Details
on energy pricing are in Annex 2-2.
d. Energy Regulatory Framework
19.   The Government is currently preparing a draft energy law for presentation



- 6 -
to the Parliament. This law would set up the future energy regulatory framework
and establish the Energy Regulatory Agency. As it stands, the draft provides for
competition in the network fuel subsectors and for open access to new entrants.
The Energy Regulatory Agency would have adequate autonomy, subject to overall
accountability to the Council of Ministers. The Bank has reviewed the January,
1994 version of this draft law and is satisfied that it meets the principal
objectives of the Government's June 1991 energy sector development policy letter.
The draft law is expected to be submitted to Parliament during 1994.   The
Bank/ESMAP has offered to provide assistance with the drafting of secondary
legislation, permits, licenses, statutes and training of personnel for the future
Energy Regulatory Agency.
C. Heat Sector
20.   Since heat and steam can only be transported over relatively short
distances, the district heating (DH) sector is highly decentralized. There are
now about 500 DHEs in Poland, serving all major urban areas. The sector provides
hot water to urban areas and process steam to industry year-round, and space heat
during seven months of the year. It has an installed capacity of about 42,000
MWt, only 38% of which is owned by the DH sector.   The heat sector consumes
almost exclusively hard coal; there are only a few heat-only boilers (HOBs) using
gas or oil. While DHEs produce part of their total heat requirements in their
own HOBs, most is purchased from the power sector and industry (para 21).
21.   Cogeneration of Heat and Power.  The power sector owns and operates the
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plants and large HOBs which supply most of the
large district heating networks.   CHP plants account for 66% of the power
sector's total heat production, but for only 10% of total electricity generation.
Thus, while CHP is crucial to heat supply, it is still of relatively small
concern to the electric power sector. The total contribution of CHP plants and
autoproducers to public district heat sales is in the range of 20-30% (50-60% of
the heat sold by the power sector and autoproducers to DHEs is cogenerated, while
the remainder is produced by large HOBs), depending on the load factor. This
proportion is well below the 70-80% range generally considered as optimal, but
should change over time. Increased use of CHP is energy efficient, relatively
non-polluting, and increases heat network dispatchability.
22.   Sector Structure.  Before passage of the 1990 Law on the Municipalities,
fifty individual DHEs provided steam, hot water and space heating to the largest
urban areas and industries in Poland. At present, however, there are about 500
district heating enterprises as a result of the breakup of the large regional
enterprises, as was the case in Katowice.  About 100 of these have now been
commercialized, either as joint stock companies or as limited liability companies
with the municipality or a group of municipalities as the sole shareholder.
Gdansk and Gdynia, both Borrowers under the Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project, became limited liability companies, while the Krakow DHE
became recently a joint stock company. These arrangements appear to be working
well, since the companies are being allowed to take their operating and
investment decisions  on a quasi-commercial  basis.    Of the remaining 400
enterprises, about 165 are operated as state-owned enterprises and 200 as



agencies of municipal governments.   Twenty eight DHEs are owned by building
cooperatives, and 6 are privately owned. The current large number of district
heating enterprises, many of which may be too small to be financially viable in
the long term, will probably be reduced in the future as consolidation takes
place.  Other systems may cease to exist: in the case of small systems with high
operating costs and large required capital improvements, conversion to direct gas
connections for space heating may well be the most economic method.
23.   Problems.  Inadequate heat pricing policies in Poland in the past have led
to under investment in energy conservation and efficiency measures, both on the
producer and the consumer side.   The resulting major problems are: (a) poor
physical system conditions caused by poor water quality and treatment, leaking
network components and lack of adequate insulation, which in combination have led
to high water and heat losses.  This results in high maintenance and repair
expenditures, excessive fuel consumption, and rapid deterioration of the system
through corrosion; (b) poor operation of the system, i.e. constant flow/variable
temperature operation instead of variable flow/variable temperature, limited or
no dispatchability of load due to a lack of central instrumentation and control
systems, and excessive use of HOBs rather than more economical CHP production;
and (c) lack of sectioning and control capabilities, which inhibits efficient
maintenance and repair. Low tariff levels also did not justify consumer metering
which, in turn, further thwarted energy conservation efforts.
24.   The water loss and corrosion problems are the most severe, since they lead
to large avoidable energy expenses and capital expenditures. Therefore, measures
to extend asset life and thereby reduce such expenditures are an important
component of the proposed project. Corrosion reduces the life of the 11,000 km
of external networks to about 15 years, whereas in Western countries a life cycle
of 40 to 50 years is common.   If preinsulated polyurethane pipes were to be
installed, the replacement cost would be reduced by about 20% while the life
cycle of the new pipes would triple. The corrosion problem is equally severe for
internal building pipe networks. The average life of internal hot water pipes
in Poland is less than 10 years, compared to 30 to 50 years in West European
systems. Corrosion is most severe on the inside of the pipes, and is caused by
saline intake water and by a large flow of oxygen-rich makeup water to compensate
for high water losses. With investments in water filters, preinsulated pipes,
bellows compensators and leak detectors, corrosion would be significantly reduced
and hot water losses in the Katowice system would be reduced from the present
level of l.5X of the total water outflow from the main heat sources to 0.5%.
This is equivalent to a reduction in the complete replacement of water in the
system from about 10 times to 4 times per heating season.
D. Environmental Aspects
25.   National.   Energy production and consumption represent the single most
serious threat to the environment in Poland.  However, the substantial recent
increases in domestic energy prices are beginning to provide incentives for
energy conservation and for fuel switching away from coal. Since 1989, energy
consumption fell by 21%; emissions decreased by more than 30%. In some heavily
industrialized areas emissions reductions are even more significant. This has



- 8 -
also affected the levels of ambient air pollution.   Apart from some highly
polluted areas such as the Katowice voivodship, average levels of exposure in
Poland to the major air pollutants are no longer significantly higher than
elsewhere in Europe.
26.   Particulates (soot, dust) and not SO2 and/or NO, are the most serious type
of pollution in Poland, both in terms of health impact as well as economic costs.
Therefore, the most significant improvements in environmental quality can be
achieved by control of emissions from "low stack" boilers. Removal of sulfur
dioxide by means of expensive flue gas desulfurization (FGD) equipment in high
stacks should, at this time, be limited to new plants and/or at locations where
the greatest impact on ambient air quality and transboundary pollution can be
demonstrated,  and where FGD is the least-cost solution.   Although Poland's
contribution to transboundary pollution is considerable, the country is still a
net importer of SO2 and possibly NO.
27.   The Government has expressed its intention to move towards adopting
European Union (EU) standards, and has introduced new emission standards that
should become effective starting in 1998. However, the current Polish ambient
standards are much stricter than comparable standards in the EU. The Bank has
started a dialogue with the Government on setting realistic and enforceable
standards that are driven by the need to achieve a healthy ambient air quality.
In setting ambient standards, cost-benefit analyses of the damage caused by
different pollution levels and the costs of reducing emissions would need to be
carried out.   Emission standards should then be designed to ensure that the
desired ambient standards are met.
28.   Economic instruments (as opposed to the regulatory approach) are becoming
increasingly important as a tool of pollution control policy. They also create
incentives for energy conservation and environmental improvement. In Poland, a
number of these instruments, like emissions charges, are already in place. Other
instruments, such as the bubble concept and tradeable permits, are under
consideration. It would be crucial for these instruments to become part of the
revised air pollution regulations currently under preparation.
29.   Katowice.   Despite the improving national environmental situation, the
Katowice voivodship remains an officially designated environmental disaster area.
It is by far the most polluted region in Poland. The region accounts for 2.1%
of Poland's surface area but for 20-25% of all gaseous and dust emissions in the
country.   Major ambient air quality indicators (dust, SO2, and NO.) exceed
national and international standards. In the case of lead concentrations the
Polish limit is even exceeded by a factor of thirteen. More information on the
environmental problems of the Katowice area is presented in Annex 2-3.
E. Bank Soctor Assistance Strategy
30.   The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
according to which the Bank would aim at: (i) assisting the Government in
addressing the most critical structural issues (public finance reform, downsizing
of large loss-making sectors, financial sector reform); (ii) supporting private



- 9 -
sector development and catalyzing private sector financinb or participation; and
(iii) financing medium-sized projects in social and economic infrastructure with
increased emphasis on projects at the local government level.   The Bank's
strategy in the energy sector envisages projects to support primarily priority
rehabilitation and modernization investments in the district heating, power and
gas subsectors that enhance energy conservation and efficiency, and reduce
environmental pollution.   In the coal subsector the Bank aims to assist the
Government's downsizing efforts by helping to mitigate the social cost of
restructuring.
31.   Bank assistance under the Energy Resource Development Project (Loan 3215-
POL) supports gas pricing reform; domestic production of gas; and increased
private sector participation in developing petroleum resources. Under the SAL
(Loan 3247-POL), coal prices were decontrolled and steps were taken towards
elimination of energy-related subsidies and cross-subsidization of household
energy consumers.  Under the Heat Supply Project's SECAL (Loan 3377-POL), the
Bank assisted the Government to: (a) restructure and demonopolize the energy
sector; (b) decontrol the potentially competitive segments of the industry
(mainly hard coal) and regulate the core "natural monopoly" networks
(electricity, gas and heat) to promote competitive behavior in these sectors; (c)
commercialize the state-owned enterprises; (d) privatize these enterprises where
possible; and (e) further eliminate any remaining distortions in domestic energy
prices and bring them to economic levels.
32.   Good progress has been made on energy pricing  (para 16).   Further
industrial and household price adjustments would be necessary for enterprises to
be able to finance an adequate portion of investments from net cash flow;
accelerate energy conservation and efficiency improvements (in industry but also
in households); enable increased domestic gas production and gas imports;
encourage fuel switching and introduction of clean coal technologies to reduce
environmental pollution; and create one essential precondition for attracting
much needed private capital to the sector. The relatively greater adjustment
effort would need to be focused on bringing household prices further in line with
economic levels. This is particularly important for the distribution companies,
since household connections in gas are still loss-making and in power only
marginally profitable. However, the Bank recognizes that special measures should
be taken to protect the lowest income groups.   This could be done through
measures that do not encourage excessive use of energy. The Government and the
Bank are currently engaged in a policy dialogue about the measures needed to
bring energy prices to their economic levels in the medium term.
33.   The project  supports  the Bank's  sector assistance  strategy  and the
Government's ongoing energy sector restructuring effort. It would result in
significant energy savings and reduce environmental pollution. PEC is expected
to be commercialized shortly and is planning to divest itself of a number of
service units, which would be privatized (para 49).



- 10 -
PART III - THE BORROWER
34.   PEC-Katowice would be the Borrower of the proposed loan.  The entity is
well managed and capable of implementing the proposed project. PEC is currently
still owned by the Katowice voivodship and operates under the Law on State Owned
Enterprises.   However,  ownership is to be formally transferred to the five
municipalities served by PEC during 1994, and PEC would be commercialized into
a joint stock company by the end of 1994 (para 49).
A. Heat Market
35.   PEG supplies district heat and hot water to about 420,000 consumers in the
cities of Katowice, Chorzow, Myslowice, Siemianowice, and Swietochlowice, and
process steam to the industries there. The total area of heated dwelling units
is about 8.8 million square meters or 42.3 million cubic meters. The number of
flats heated is about 122,000.
36.   Heat Demand.  In 1993, the heat demand capacity in PEC's operating area was
about 2,951 MWt of which: (a) 44% (or 1,311 MWt) was for district heat consumers
served by PEC, including domestic hot water (104 MWt) and process steam (24 MWt);
(b) 13% (or 387 MWt) was for district heat consumers not served by the PEC
system; and (c) the remaining 43% (or 1,253 MWt) was for space heating,
consisting mainly of coal-fired stoves (796 MWt), small coal-fired HOBs
(346 MWt), and individual boilers fueled with gas, electricity or oil (111 MWt
aggregate).
37.   Heat  SuRDlY.    Most  of  PEC's  consumers  are  connected  to  the  main
"interconnected" network consisting of the CHP Chorzow system and CHP Katowice
system, named after the main heat supply sources.   Although these systems are
physically  interconnected,  they  are  independently  operated.         Hydraulic
interconnection and integrated operation can take place once the i-ivestments
proposed under this project have been implemented.  The district heat supply
capacity available to PEG to meet consumer demand is about 1,503 MWt. Sixty
eight percent of this capacity (or 1,024 MWt) is available to the interconnected
network.   The remaining 32% consists of district heat capacity available to
isolated networks  (449 MWt) or process steam (29 MWt).   The share of truly
cogenerated heat capacity (as distinct from large HOB capacity) on the
interconnected network is a very low 15%, compared to a minimum of 60% in a
modern and well designed system. This is because most of the CHP plants' heat
generating capacity is in fact HOB capacity, due to funding constraints when the
plants were built. PEC's heat capacity balance for the heating season 1992-93
is shown in Annex 3-1. Other operating statistics for the company are shown in
Annex 3-2.
38.   Interconnection of the Katowice and Chorzow systems would result in better
dispatchability of cogenerated heat in the entire system.   During project
preparation the Bank was instrumental in obtaining that a merger of the Katowice
and Chorzow district heating enterprises took place. This provides the basis for



- 11 -
future interconnection of the two networks and would avoid redundant investments
in heat supply sources.
39.   The overall economic situation and the consumer response to elimination of
household energy subsidies combined with rising prices, make demand forecasting
a difficult task. The heat demand forecast is further complicated by the mild
winters since 1987 and by the proposed investments in DH network efficiency
improvements, which would result in additional energy savings. These factors
combined are expected to more than offset any increase in heat demand, at least
through the year 2000 (para 89). This provides an ideal opportunity to gradually
rehabilitate the district heating system, improve its operating efficiency, and
eliminate HOBs wherever possible.
B. Organization and Management
40.   The PEC-Katowice district heating system is one of the ten largest in
Poland. District heating enterprises vary in size and complexity. The largest
ones, such as PEC, have large main heat distribution networks, often connected
to smaller satellite networks. Most of their heat is generated by power sector
and industrial plants and transported via bulk heat transmission mains. These
enterprises also own and operate a number of smaller isolated networks supplied
from HOBs and individual local HOBs providing dedicated heat supplies to an
individual building or group of buildings. The next category of DHEs operates
a single medium-sized main network and supplies most of its heat from a single
CHP/HOB complex, while other factors remain as in the first category.   The
smallest DHEs generally have a small main network supplied by the enterprise's
own HOB plant plus a number of smaller isolated networks supplied from
enterprise-owned HOBs and numerous local boilers.
41.   Staff. As of the end of 1993 PEC had 1,330 staff during the heating season,
of which about 950 are permanent.  Headquarters staff is about 230, with the
remainder spread over nine regional operating divisions.    PEC's organization
chart is shown in Annex 3-3. Staffing levels would be reduced, as automation
technologies are being introduced under the proposed project and HOB's are being
eliminated.
42.   Management.    The management  of PEC  is  technically  well  qualified.
Furthermore, the rapid phasing out of centrally financed investments has been a
powerful incentive for the entity to begin to develop more expertise in economic
and financial matters. Management recognizes that, as tariff levels increase and
the subsidies for household consumption decrease, improved and more commercial
management of PEC will become far more important than in the past. Along with
the expected commercialization of PEC, this has focussed management attention on
economic/financial decision making. Retraining or recruitment of managers and
staff with the requisite skills in these areas has become a priority.
43.   Training.  PEC's staff is generally well qualified. Turnover has decreased
as unemployment in the region has risen. PEC provides adequate training for its
employees. It has training rooms, audio-visual equipment, ensures that suppliers
provide training when new products or programs are being introduced, and sends



- 12 -
workers abroad for one month training sessions (para 47). Computer training is
being given to all administrative staff. The principal areas where improvements
are needed are: (i) establishment of in-house planning and engineering capability
for option evaluation, project preparation, cost analysis, and project
management; (ii) least-cost expansion analysis, inventory control and spare parts
management; and (iii) economic and financial analysis and accounting.
44.   Labor Relations.  PEC has two labor unions, representing less than 250 of
the 1,330 people employed. The relations between management and labor are good.
Management emphasizes that any future staff reductions would be made first in
seasonal staff before permanent staff are affected, but that retraining is vital
to enable it to reallocate staff as positions are being made redundant. The
necessity to achieve productivity increases is being emphasized as necessary for
PEC to become more market oriented and as other forms of heating are beginning
to provide competition in fringe areas.
45.   Compensation is based on a salary scale that provides for significant
differentiation, ranging from US$250 to US$850 equivalent per month; these
salaries are competitive.   Skilled technical workers earn on average about
US$500/month, and office workers about US$420/month. In addition, the company
pays an average bonus of 30% over the base salary. This bonus is used as a major
management tool to enhance the quality of work; any overtime needed as a result
of poor work must come out of the bonus allocated to that unit.
46.   PEC's accounting staff of 17 is generally qualified through long on-the-job
experience.     The  department  is  fully  computerized,  although  not  yet
electronically linked to the operating teams.   Continued staff training is
necessary as a result of the nationwide introduction of a new accounting system
as of 1992, that was supposed to be identical to the West European system.
However, for the moment, this new accounting system (using forms provided by the
Government) still bears a remarkable resemblance to the old system, including the
absence of funds flow statements, although earmarking of funds has ceased to
exist. PEC has purchased a new computer program that would prepare financial
statements (including funds flow statements) according to the West European
format, even though this is not a requirement set by the Ministry of Finance.
The use of this new program would be of substantial help, both as a management
tool and to facilitate reporting to the Bank during supervision.
47.   PEC has a cooperative exchange program  with Malm6 Energi A.B. of Sweden.
Malm6 Energi is owned by Sydkraft, a major power and heat producer and
distributor in Sweden. In addition to Malmo Energi providing training of PEC
staff in Sweden (PEC pays for transportation and lodging), the Swedish company
has provided free automation of a substation plus thermostatic valves, meters,
etc. for an entire apartment complex in Katowice and is involved in an energy
conservation joint venture with PEC and other local investors (para 54).
C. Commercialization and Privatization
48.   The Katowice voivodship is still the founding organ of PEC, but the assets
are expected to be transferred during 1994 from the Voivodship to the five



- 13 -
municipalities served by PEC.  Net assets contributions would be as follows:
Katowice City (58%); Chorzow (13%); Myslowice (6%); Siemianowice (13%); and
Swietochlowice (10%). It is expected that PEC would be commercialized before the
end of 1994, probably in the form of a joint-stock company. Combined with an
independent and professional Supervisory Board, these arrangements have worked
well elsewhere (para 22).
49.   The next phase of PEC's restructuring program would consist of spinning off
and privatizing auxiliary services such as transportation, repair and maintenance
services and laboratories. These new enterprises would be independent of PEC,
although PEC could initially remain a major shareholder. The proposed spin-offs
would reduce the staff of PEC by about 120 people, while the same services would
be provided at an estimated 50% of current costs.   The ultimate goal of the
privatization program would be to spin off the HOB divisions as well and turn PEC
into a company that would focus on its core task of buying and distributing heat
for the interconnected network. Boiler elimination and substation automation
would reduce temporary staff over time by 60% (about 240 people).   In the
process, total staff would be reduced from 1,330 at present to about 1,000 at the
peak of the heating season by 1998.   Additional staff reductions could occur as
a result of increasing computerization and improved telecommunications.
50.   The management information systems of PEC are adequate at this stage and,
at least in the administrative area,  fully computerized.   However,  after
commercialization and the subsequent organizational changes, work must be done
to set up an improved management information system. For that reason, provision
has been made for a management information study and the acquisition of
appropriate hardware and software under the project.
D. Metering, Billing and Collection
51.   As of the end of 1993, 562 heat meters were installed in the primary
network, measuring about 37% of the total substation capacity of 1,311 MWt,.
About 51% of this capacity belongs to PEC, of which only 14% is measured.
Meters are read on a monthly basis by staff from PEC's nine regional operating
teams. Metering of individual apartments with sophisticated devices is not yet
cost-effective. Consumers that are not metered pay tariffs proportional to the
surface of their residence.  Throughout Poland the Government pays household
consumers the difference between the uniform national household heat price and
the contract price actually billed by a DHE (para 17). In Katowice, however, the
contract price is now lower than the national household heat price and,
therefore, consumers there receive no longer a subsidy.   As prices increase
further there is therefore a growing incentive for energy conservation among
household  consumers.    The  proposed  project  would  finance  a program  for
installation of flow and heat meters with associated control equipment at
consumer substations, as well as a pilot program to prefinance consumer
installations (para 57).  An important complement to this strategy would be
introduction of a new heat tariff structure, which must have separate energy and
capacity charges.   Such a revision is within the competence of the local
authorities and does not need Ministry of Finance approval.



- 14 -
E. Network Optimization Program
52.   During project preparation and as part of the technical assistance program
a core master plan was prepared for the Regional Katowice district heating system
covering Katowice, Chorzow and Gliwice. This first phase study, undertaken by
consultants under grant financing and under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, focused on rehabilitation and optimization of the existing system. The
second phase of this master plan study, to be financed from the loan proceeds,
would: (a) cover the implementation of the measures recommended in the core
master plan; and (b) forecast future load growth and determine economically
justified system expansion for the next 20 years.
53.   The core master plan defined the optimization program for the existing
district heating system and helped focus the proposed Bank financed investments
on those areas and categories of equipment for which support is most urgently
needed. PEC has already started implementation of the program. Agreement was
reached that PEC would: (a) complete implementation of the core master plan by
December 31, 1999 in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank; (b)
prepare with the assistance of consultants and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a comprehensive master plan for long-term
rehabilitation, modernization and future development of its district heating
system and present a draft of this to the Bank by September 30, 1995. Following
review by the Bank, implementation of the agreed recommendations of this master
plan should start by January 15, 1996.
F. Energy Conservation and Efficiency
54.   The entire focus of the optimization program is on energy conservation and
efficiency improvements within the primary, PEC-owned, network. In addition, a
pilot program to improve the secondary, consumer owned, installations could be
financed from the proceeds of the loan (para 57).  PEC is involved in other
energy conservation activities as well.  Together with Malm6 Energi and with
significant Swedish Government grant financing, it has automated a major
substation and equipped consumer installations with heat meters, thermostatic
valves and shut-off valves. Energy savings as a result of this are expected to
be in the order of 30% for this substation.  In addition, PEC has joined the
Upper Silesian Agency for Energy Conservation, which was created in February 1993
as a commercial joint venture between Malmo Energi and the Katowice voivodship,
and has taken a 5% stake in the share capital. The purpose of this Agency is to
undertake investments in energy conservation and efficiency, both on the producer
side as well as on the consumer side.  PEC also sends selected staff members
abroad for one month training programs in modern operation and maintenance
methods of heat supply systems.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
55.   Objectives.    The  project's  objectives  are  to:  (a)  enhance  energy
conservation and efficiency in the district heating sector; (b) extend the life
of existing district heating assets through rehabilitation and introduction of
modern technologies, thereby significantly reducing capital expenditures and
operating and maintenance costs; and (c) reduce environmental pollution through
investments in energy-efficient equipment and systems as well as by supporting
a program to eliminate coal-fired heat-only boilers. The project would support
implementation of the Government's ongoing energy sector restructuring program.
56.   Project Scope.   The project,  supported by a US$45 million Bank loan,
comprises: (a) an investment component consisting of investments in equipment to
optimize the existing district heating system; and (b) technical assistance
through consultancy services, studies and staff training. Details are in Annex
4-1. The project scope can be summarized as follows:
a.    Reduction of water losses;
b.    Improvement of water quality;
c.    Reduction of heat losses;
d.    Introduction of automation, controls and metering at the substation
level;
e.    Improvement of network monitoring;
f.    Conversion of system control from fixed to variable flow;
g.    Enhancement of system load dispatching capability;
h.    Elimination of small heat-only boilers, or conversion to gas-firing
where appropriate;
i.    A consumer installations pilot program (para 57); and
j.    Technical assistance and training.
57.   Consumer Installations Pilot Program.   Separation of the primary and
secondary networks through heat exchangers is one of the principal means to
achieve the major objectives of the project.   It is an essential requirement
before thermostatic controls can be installed in secondary (consumer owned)
installations. Further adjustments in energy prices towards economic levels and
the phasing out of consumer subsidies for heat consumption would ensure a
significant increase in consumer interest in energy conservation measures.



- 16 -
Commercial bank funding for these purposes is virtually unobtainable at present.
Therefore, PEC intends to implement a pilot program to assist selected housing
cooperatives in financing improvements in consumer-owned heat installations such
as heat exchangers (in the case of hydroelevators not owned by PEC), substation
automation equipment, meters, and thermostatic valves.   Use of this project
component is optional, however, as much would depend on demand from financially
viable consumer groups.   Agreement was reached that PEC would:  (a) devote a
maximum of 5% of the loan amount for the purpose of prefinancing consumer
installations; (b) onlend those funds to consumers at an interest rate up to 350
basis points over the Bank's variable interest rate, with a maximum maturity of
eight years, and a grace period of up to six months. The funds would be onlent
in US dollar equivalent amounts, so that the consumers would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
58.   Improved building insulation would be a further major step towards enabling
the consumer to reduce heat demand.   Indeed, the estimated reduction in heat
capacity demand from that measure alone would be in the order of 25-30%, while
improvements in consumer installations would reduce heat energy demand by up to
20%.
59.   Given that some consumers have installed, or wish to install, meters and
control valves on their own initiative, PEC has sought to set standards and limit
the types of equipment that can be installed in order to ensure adequate
equipment standards and facilitate future maintenance. As elsewhere in Poland,
these efforts have led to complaints about monopolism. Nevertheless, the reasons
for reducing the variety of equipment are compelling. Starting February 1993,
PEG reduced the number of allowable meters to three, and wants to have in the
future only one type of meter.
B. Environmental Aspects
60.   The proposed project  is rated environmental  screening category  "B",
consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E,
"Environmental Assessment". This category is reserved for projects which may
have relatively minor adverse environmental impacts, despite the fact that the
project would result in a significant net reduction in air pollution.
61.   A major objective of the project is reduction of water losses and thereby
significantly reduce energy consumption and related pollution.  Currently, water
in the Katowice DH system is being replaced about 10 times per year. Under the
project, water losses for both the CHP Katowice and CHP Chorzow systems would be
reduced to a replacement rate of 4 times per year, which represents major water
and energy savings. By the end of the project implementation period, annual coal
savings would be in the order of 138,000 tons per year, while water losses would
be reduced by 506,000 cubic meters per year. Coal savings would in turn improve
ambient air quality in Katowice through reduction in SO2 and particulates
emissions by 2,770 and 1,735 tons per year, respectively.
62.   Improvement of water quality to reduce corrosion.  Oxygen, chloride and



- 17 -
particle contents  in the network's water are at high levels.   This causes
corrosion and leakage in the system. Replacement of leaking network components
by leak-proof components would reduce fresh oxygen in the system, while
installation of filters would reduce particle levels in the water to 5 milligrams
per liter. Further improvement in water quality, mainly by reducing the chloride
content, can only be achieved by installing demineralization plants for make up
water at the heat sources. Such investments at the heat sources (not included
in this project) would become economically justifiable only once the water losses
in the PEG system have been reduced to a replacement rate of 4 times per year
(para 61).
63.   Reduction of heat losses, presently estimated at 8% of the total heat
production, by 25% through 1999.  About one-third of this would be achieved
through reduction in water losses. The remainder would be achieved by replacing
the oldest and most corroded parts of PEC's main network (about 40% of the
total), with preinsulated pipes where possible and improved concrete ducts
elsewhere. Regarding the procurement of preinsulated pipes, the Bank strongly
encourages its Borrowers under the existing Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project (Loans 3377/83-POL) to purchase chloro-fluoro carbon (CFC)-
free preinsulated pipes.   Any proposed use of CFC products would be formally
reviewed by Regional environmental staff.
64.   Substation automation, control and metering, in combination with tariff
restructuring, would significantly enhance energy conservation. Heat and flow
meters, as well as steam meters, would be installed at heat producing plants,
thus enabling the introduction of realistic producer tariffs. Meters would be
installed at large industrial and residential consumers to allow charges to be
a function  of actual  consumption  and thus encourage  energy  savings.   The
substation modernization and automation program would permit the reduction of
heat energy demand at the substation level by 15% over a five year period,
starting in 1994.
65.   Measures would be taken to convert the system from constant flow/variable
temperature control to variable flow/variable temperature control. This would
result in energy savings through reduced pumping, improved heat dispatch and a
reduction in the supply temperature, thus also enabling CHP plant to produce
power more efficiently.
66.   District heating systems in Poland in general are among the worst polluters
due to the large number of HOBs located inside cities.  The majority of the
smaller boilers operate with poor or no envirornmental controls, where even dust
collection at boiler discharge is lacking or inefficient. The large number, the
dispersed nature, and the age of many of these plants make pollution control
nearly impossible. To assist Katowice in improving ambient air quality in the
most efficient way, the project also includes a US$12.9 million small boiler
elimination component. This component would eliminate about 67 MWt of coal-fired
boilers and connect their load to the main district heating system. The coal
savings, resulting from the shift of heat production from the small boilers to
more efficient CHP plant and large HOBs, are estimated to be about 17,200 tons



- 18 -
annually.   This contributes to improving ambient air quality in Katowice by
reducing the emissions of SO2 and particulates by about 344 tons and 1,010 tons
per annum, respectively. The above mentioned favorable environmental impacts are
easily measured and would be monitored under the quarterly progress reporting
system (para 81).   An existing air quality monitoring system is in place in
Katowice from which, in principle, improvements can be followed as project
implementation progresses. However, the diversity of factors which affect air
quality (e.g., other emission sources, weather, changing industrial and
commercial activities) would tend to obscure improvements directly attributable
to project implementation.
67.   The proposed project fits well into the Bank's environmental strategy in
Poland.  Under the Environment Management Technical Assistance project (Loan
3190-POL) least-cost approaches to pollution abatement were developed.   They
suggest three priorities for environmentally sound investments in the energy
sector: (a) initially, reduction of particulates would have greater health impact
than reduction of either SO2 or NO.; (b) emissions from low stacks in heavily
populated areas must be eliminated first; and (c) pollution abatement investment
must start in the most polluted areas, i.e., Katowice and other cities in the
South.
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
68.   The total project cost, including price and physical contingencies, is
estimated at about US$93 million equivalent. Of the total cost, US$53 million
would be in foreign exchange, and the remaining US$40 million equivalent would
be in local costs.  All cost estimates are based on international prices as of
December, 1993. A provision of 10% of the base cost has been made for physical
contingencies, based on past experience with similar projects. Foreign and local
price contingencies were assumed to be 2.5% per annum for 1993-99. Details of
the project cost are presented in Annex 4-2. A summary of the project cost is
presented in Table 4-1.



- 19 -
Table 4-1: Proiect Cost
US$ Million
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Local     Foreign    Total
Network Rehabilitation & Replacement                   11.0       12.4      23.4
Substation Retrofit, Automation & Metering              6.1       19.3      25.4
Network Sectioning Systems                              2.1        2.6       4.7
Network Monitoring, Interconnection & Dispatching System  1.6      3.1       4.7
Boiler Elimination & Conversion Program                 3.7        7.4      11.1
Technical Assistance                                    0.4        1.1       1.5
BASE COSTS                           24.9       45.9      70.8
Physical Contingencies                                  2.3        4.3       6.6
Price Contingencies                                     1.5        2.8       4.3
Import Duties and Taxes                                11.2                 11.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       39.9       53.0      92.9
69.   The project's financing plan is summarized in Table 4-2.
Table 4-2: Financing Plan
US$ Million
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN                            F           T
ucal      Foreign    Total
IBRD                                                              45.0      45.0
PEC                                                    39.9        8.0      47.9
TOTAL                             39.9       530       92.9
D. Procurement Arrangements
70.   All equipment to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the Bank's standard
bidding documents would be used.   To the extent practicable, invitations for
bids would be grouped in sizable bid packages so as to enhance competition and
benefit from economies of scale in bid prices. These packages would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the



- 20 -
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for
equipment to be procured through ICB, Polish manufacturers would receive a
domestic preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the
prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less,
provided they can prove that the value added to the product in Poland exceeds 20%
of the ex-factory bid price. Equipment procured through ICB would account for
about 72% percent of equipment requirements, consisting of 13 packages.   A
procurement schedule for major equipment items is presented in Annex 4-3. The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4-3.
Table 4-3: Procurement Arrangements
PROCUREMENTMETOD  /
COMPONENTS                    -cs       O    R _ _,OAL,,
ICB     OTIHERW 1tOTUAL :IBRI
(i) Equipment                                 47.0       44.2    91.2
(31.3)    (12.5)   (43.8)   48%
(ii) Consultants' Services & Training                     1.7     1.7
l__________      (1.2)   (1.2)   71%
TOTAL                         41.0       4S.9    92.9
(31.3)     (13.1)   (45.0)   48%
a/   Figures between brackets indicate Bank financed portion.
b/   Includes:   (1)   Limited International Bidding (UB) (aggregate amount US$ 5.0 million)
(2)   International Shopping (aggregate amount US$ 4.5 million)
(3)   Direct Contracting (aggregate amount US$ 3.0 million)
(4)   Consuftants' Services (aggregate amount USS 0.9 million) and Training
(aggregate amount US$ 0.3 million) awarded in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants
71.   The exceptions to the ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a)   Limited International Bidding (LIB).  For goods and materials such
as circulating pumps and associated variable speed drives
(1 package), sectioning valves (3 packages), central control unit
(1 package), and part of the equipment for the boiler elimination
program (3 packages), which the Bank agrees are supplied through a
limited number of suppliers, procurement would be done following LIB
procedures. It is estimated that the above mentioned equipment would
be procured in eight LIB packages at an aggregate cost of about US$5
million.
(b)   International Shopping (IS). This procedure would be used for small
amounts of equipment and for part of the equipment for the boiler
elimination  program.    Contracts  for  equipment  and  materials



- 21 -
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per package and not exceeding
an aggregate amount of US$4.5 million equivalent would be awarded
under this procedure, based on comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible suppliers from at least three different
countries.
(c)   Direct Contracting.   For items of a proprietary nature, or where
compatibility with installed equipment is required, Direct
Contracting would be used.    This  would be  the case  for  the
procurement of additional elements of preinsulated pipes, e.g., due
to changes in the routing caused by unexpected underground obstacles
found during construction. This procurement procedure would be used
for equipment and materials estimated to cost an aggregate amount
not exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent.
(d)   Consultants'  Services  and  Training.        Qualified  shortlisted
consulting firms would be invited to submit proposals for consultant
services in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.   Consultants'  services have been grouped into two
contracts , for an aggregate amount of US$800,000, of which one
contract  (US$313,860) has already been awarded  (para 72).   As
needed, the services of individual specialists would also be
contracted (US$ 100,000).   An amount of US$0.3 million has been
allocated within the loan amount for training purposes.
72.   Retroactive Financing.   In agreement with the Bank, the Borrower has
engaged consultants and procured equipment to start implementing the optimization
program. These procurement actions for goods and services have been completed
in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Payments made under such
contracts after April 1, 1992, would be eligible for reimbursement under
retroactive financing arrangements upon effectiveness of the loan. Provision has
been made for retroactive financing for up to 10% of the loan amount.   The
exception to the normal retroactive financing period was granted because of the
unusual delays in presenting this project, caused by the limits on the
Government's annual guarantee authority.
73.   Procurement Implementation.   Procurement would be carried out by PEC's
procurement unit. The unit has qualified staff and has been provided with the
necessary  office  equipment.    It has received  training  in procurement by
specialized Bank staff and has already undertaken several procurement actions.
74.   Procurement Review.  The Bank would conduct a prior review of procurement
packages over US$500,000 each. Prior approval would also be sought for the use
of the LIB, international shopping and direct contracting procurement methods.
Other contracts would be subject to the Bank's ex post reviews.   The Bank's
standard bidding documents for goods would be used for ICB and LIB packages, with
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the project.



- 22 -
E. Disbursements
75.   The loan would finance up to 100% of the eligible direct foreign exchange
expenditures for goods, services and training, as well as up to 100% of the
eligible ex-factory costs of locally produced goods. Disbursements for contracts
valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent would be on the basis of statements of
expenditures which detail the individual transactions.   The documentation to
support these expenditures would be retained by PEC. The documentation would be
audited by independent auditors and be made available for review by the Bank upon
request.  Applications for withdrawals against contracts valued at more than
US$200,000 equivalent would be fully documented. To facilitate disbursements,
the Borrower would establish a US dollar denominated Special Account with a
qualified commercial bank. The Bank would deposit the equivalent of about four
months of disbursements into this account. Replenishment applications should be
for amounts of not less than US$0.5 million.
76.   The detailed disbursements schedule is provided in Annex 4-4.  It is based
on the Bank's disbursement profile for energy projects in the Europe and Central
Asia Region, adjusted to take into account retroactive financing of approved
expenditures upon loan effectiveness. Based on this disbursement profile the
expected completion date for the project is December 31, 1999, and the closing
date is June 30, 2000.   The disbursements schedule is summarized in Table 4-4.
Table 4-4: Disbursements Schedule
IBIU) FY           -..  -.                 ._                  _____DS  fj74E   :D . -
FY95    FY96    FYM7       FY95     FY9.FY000l
Annual                      4.5     7.2      12.6      16.2      3.6        0.9
Cumulative                  4.5    11.7      24.3      40.5      44.1      45.0
Percentage                 10%      26%      54%       90%       98%       100%
F. Implementation Arrangements
77.   The core master plan for PEC was prepared by qualified consultants tinder
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Based on this core master plan a
detailed optimization program was prepared. This program was agreed upon with
PEC and implementation has already started.
78.   Supervision of equipment installation would be performed by PEC with the
assistance of suppliers,  if necessary.    PEC has adequate experience with
rehabilitation and extension programs and has the capability, using its own staff
and external contractors, to implement the investment program under the loan.
Specialized contractors would be used for most of the work to be done under the
consumer installations pilot program.   The technical specifications of the
proposed equipment are well known to PEC from experience already gained in



- 23 -
working with the Bank, and no difficulty is anticipated in preparing the needed
documentation. The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4-5.
79.   The project's success would be measured by such criteria as: (i) reductions
in water and heat losses and in energy consumption; (ii) improvement of water
quality; (iii) number and capacity of HOBs eliminated; (iv) number of substations
automated and metered; and (v) employee productivity improvements. In addition
to regular supervision of procurement action and project implementation, a
supervision action plan has been developed on which the Borrower would have to
report in the quarterly progress reports. The format and content of such report
have been agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower. An average supervision
effort is expected to be required from the Bank at about 15 staffweeks per fiscal
year.
G. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
80.   The project account, the Special Account, the Statement of Expenditures,
and the financial statements of the Borrower would be audited at the end of each
fiscal year in accordance with international standards. Agreement was reached
that PEC would appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank and
present, within seven months after the end of each fiscal year, audited financial
statements showing its financial performance and position.
81.   Systems and procedures would be set up to ensure effective monitoring of
project implementation by the Borrower and the Bank. In particular, they would
furnish the Bank with a series of reports on a regular basis. Quarterly progress
reports would include statistical information required under the supervision
action plan. Agreement was reached that PEC would submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports within 30 days of the end of each quarter.   In addition,
agreement was reached that PEC would prepare and submit to the Bank a project
completion report within six months after the closing date of the loan.
PART V - FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past Performance and Present Position
82.   Through the end of 1989, the Government limited DHEs' earnings and self-
financing capacity through strict control of heat tariffs. In exchange, major
investments were financed by the State (so-called central investments), and the
DHEs were responsible only for replacement investments. This linked investment
decisions to the availability of budget funds rather than to technical and
economic requirements and did not optimize network planning.
83.   Accounting policies distorted the financial performance of the DHEs as
follows: (a) depreciation charges were (and remain) understated due to serious
undervaluation of fixed assets; (b) work in progress financed and executed on



- 24 -
behalf of the DHEs by local governments and other agencies were not brought into
DHE accounts until the work was completed; and (c) earmarking of funds further
obscured the financial performance and position of each enterprise and limited
the scope for financial management. Several asset revaluations took place since
1983. Although there was another revaluation of assets during 1993 (but only for
assets acquired since 1991) control over asset valuation indicators is still a
major tool used by the Government to keep heat price increases under control.
In the context of its review of energy pricing policy (para 18) the Government
is also preparing proposals under which energy enterprises would be allowed to
revalue all assets to replacement value and to gradually reflect this in
increased depreciation charges, starting in 1995. This would have the effect of
lowering reported profits and corporate income taxes, while benefitting
enterprise cash flow.
84.   Given past financial policies and the continuing control of district
heating prices by the Ministry of Finance, most DHEs had, until 1992, a roughly
comparable financial performance. Any significant deviations from the norm were
due to factors such as variances in local costs, unusually large investments in
the financing of which the DHE participated, special wage concessions, etc.
Furthermore, due to the dissolution of the former WPEC Katowice into eleven DHEs
(September 1991), and the subsequent merger of PEC Katowice and PEC Chorzow into
one single entity (April 1992), PEC's past financial performance has limited
value as a guide to future financial performance. The year 1993 was the first
full year following the merger with Chorzow that reflects the financial
performance of the entity on a consolidated basis. During that year, PEC was
able to achieve considerable efficiency gains, thus establishing a solid basis
for its future financial performance.
85.   In 1993, PEC had a net profit margin of 5% after tax.  The operating ratio
was 90% and net internal cash generation was 64%. Like most other DHEs, PEC has
no long-term or short-term bank debt, due to the low levels of investments during
the last few years, the inability to borrow from the banking system because of
the short-term maturities of loans and the general reticence of the Polish
banking sector to lend.   The current ratio was 1.5 times.  Accounts receivable
were equivalent to about three months of billing, which is unsatisfactory but
about average in Poland. PEC pays the 40% corporate income tax, plus customs
duties and taxes equivalent to 21.9% of the value of imported equipment. As of
July 1, 1993 PEC is collecting for the Government a value added tax equal to 7%
of the heating bill; this tax rate is expected to remain constant through 1995.
As a public utility operating under the Law on State-Owned Enterprises, PEC pays
currently no dividends.
86.   Tariff Structure and Levels.  The actual tariff structure and levels for
district heat, domestic hot water and process steam for the various consumer
categories is shown in Annex 5-1. Residential customers accounted for about 60%
of the 1993 sales revenues. The average heat sales price is currently about
US$6.12 per Gigajoule (GJ), and the average bulk-heat purchase price is about
US$4.5 per GJ.   This compares with prices of US$12.5 and US$3.5 per GJ,
respectively, for a comparable West European system such as Denmark's.   The
Danish heat price is believed to be a good benchmark for the Polish district



- 25 -
heating system's economic price level because of the similarity of the fuel mix
used in both countries.
B. Future Financial Performance
87.   To deal with inflation and uncertainties about the development of the costs
of inputs, PEC's 1993 financial data were converted into US dollars at the
average 1993 exchange rate.  From 1993 onwards, all data are expressed in US
dollars and assume international inflation rates (2.5% per annum).
88.   For forecasting purposes, average heat prices (district heat, domestic hot
water and steam) for all consumer categories are assumed to reach economic levels
by the year 2000 (para 18). This means an increase in real terms by about 7% per
annum during 1994-2000. Should tariff increases be positive in real terms but
less than anticipated, PEC would not be able to implement its total investment
program, which consists of the project plus other investments. In such a case,
investments other than the project would be postponed or dropped, because they
have a lower priority.   If that measure would still not make the appropriate
level of counterpart funds available for the project itself then this would cause
a slower pace of implementation of the project. However, under most realistic
scenarios this would not substantially affect the project's economic viability
(para 103).
89.   The past increases in energy prices and the progressive phasing out of heat
subsidies have already enhanced consumer energy awareness and have lead to
increasing energy conservation efforts.   Implementation of the optimization
program would also result in primary network efficiency improvements and
additional energy savings.   These factors combined would probably more than
offset any increase in structural heat energy demand.   Therefore, an annual
decline in heat sales amounting to 1.1% per annum through the year 2000 was
assumed in the financial forecasts, resulting in the forecast heat energy demand
in the year 2000 being 8% lower than in 1993.   The financial forecasts are
presented in Annex 5-2.
90.   Financing Plan. The financing plan for the project implementation period
1994-99 is summarized in Table 5.1 below:



- 26 -
Table 5-1: Financine Plan. 1994-1999
Amount                                    Amount
(US$ Min)    %                            (US$ Min)   %
Sources of Funds                           Uses of Funds
Net Income            48         44        The Project*/        89         81
Depreciation          45         41        Other Investments    18         16
Less: Debt Service & Tax    (28)  (26)
Internal Sources   65          59          Total Investments  107       97
IBRD Loan            45          41        Changes in:
Other Loans           0           0        - Working Capital     2          2
- Cash                1         1
Total Loans        45          41
Total Sources     110         100          Total Uses        110        100
/ Excluding about US$4 million in investments undertaken in 1992 and 1993.
91.   Based on the assumptions outlined above (paras 87-89), PEC would finance
on average 59% of total requirements, or 61% of total investments, during the
project implementation period. In addition to the project, other investments in
the amount of $18 million have been assumed. These investments would be defined
in detail as a result of the master plan study (para 53).
92.   Future Financial Performance Indicators.   A summary of the principal
financial performance indicators forecast for 1994-2000 is shown in Table 5.2
below:
Table 5-2:Financial Perfonnance Indicators, 1994-2000
FINANCALPERPNRMANCElDCICATRS 1994-              19 200
INDICATORS               194   195   1996  1997   198    1999  2000
Operating Ratio                       89%    90%   91%   91%   90%    89%   88%
Net Internal Cash Generation Ratio    58%    52%   51%   58%   65%    76%   85%
Current Ratio                          1.6    1.5   1.5   1.4   1.5    1.6   1.6
Debt/(Debt+Equity)                    12%    19%   23%   24%   24%    20%   16%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           21.4   10.1   7.0   6.0   6.0    4.0   3.6
93.   Net internal cash generation as a percent of total investment expenditures
on a 3 year moving average basis would during all years be above 50%, providing
room for additional investments. The debt service coverage ratio would be 3.6
times or higher, and PEC's average exposure to debt as a percent of debt and



- 27 -
equity would be at all times 24% or less, which would leave room for further
borrowing. The operating ratio would average about 90%, and the current ratio
would remain at 1.4 or better, which is satisfactory. Agreement was reached that
PEC would: (a) achieve a net internal cash generation ratio of at least 30% in
any one year based on a three year moving average (the previous, the current and
the next year) during the project implementation period; (b) maintain an annual
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 times; and (c) present to the Bank,
by September 30 of each year, the corresponding forecast financial statements for
the current and next fiscal years.
PART VI - BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Project Benefits
94.   The economic benefits of the project have been estimated in the following
categories: (a) energy savings; (b) network life extension; (c) reduction in
operating and maintenance costs; (d) reduction in labor costs; (e) reduction in
water losses; and (f) air pollution abatement.
95.   Energy Savings.  Energy savings would come from four sources: (a) reduced
network heat losses; (b) better dispatching and lower water supply temperature
at the heat sources; (c) automation, control and metering; and (d) small boiler
elimination. Installation of energy efficient network components such as pre-
insulated pipes and replacement of other key components by non-corrosive and
leak-proof equipment would reduce energy losses in the network considerably.
Network heat losses as a percentage of heat produced ex-plant would be reduced
from 7.7% of PEC's annual energy sales at present to 6.2% by the time the project
is fully implemented. Because most of the control equipment and substations in
the PEC system are obsolete and inefficient, the project's automation, control
and metering component would substantially increase the efficiency of the whole
system. This would permit much more efficient heat dispatching, thereby saving
energy at the heat sources. By eliminating small HOBs with a total capacity of
67 MWt and connecting their load to the interconnected network, which is being
supplied by the more efficient CHPs and large HOBs, additional energy savings
would be achieved. By the end of the project implementation period, annual coal
savings from the optimization program would be in the order of at least 130,000
tons per year.
96.   Network Life Extension. Corrosion in the district heating networks reduces
the life of many of the existing components and significantly increases the
portion of the network that has to be replaced each year. The average lifetime
of the network at present is about 10 years, compared with 40 to 50 years in a
modern, well-designed system. It is estimated that the project would extend the
average network life from 10 years to at least 30 years.
97.   Reduction in Operating and Maintenance Costs.  Because of the replacement



- 28 -
of obsolete network components with modern and efficient equipment, operating and
maintenance costs for the network system would be reduced by about 5%.  For
example, extended network life would require less network repairs each year, and
substation automation would reduce maintenance costs. Additionally, the small
boiler elimination program and associated installation of automated substations
would generate a 60% saving in associated operating and maintenance costs. The
combined effect would be a 23% reduction in operating and maintenance costs.
98.   Reduction in Labor Costs.   The elimination of small boilers and their
replacement with automatic substations would achieve a 75% reduction in
associated manpower requirements. Furthermore, the installation of more modern
equipment and automation in other parts of the network would improve employee
productivity by 5%, resulting in a further 13% reduction in manpower requirements
in the network system. The combined effect would be a reduction of about 24% in
PEC's manpower requirements.
99.   Reduction in Water Losses    Replacement of old pipes and other leaky
components in the network would reduce water losses from the present level of
1.5% of the total water outflow from the main heat sources to 0.5%.  This is
equivalent to a reduction in the replacement of water in the system from about
10 times to 4 times per heating season.   In volume,  this corresponds to a
reduction of water losses by at least 500,000 cubic meters per year by the end
of the project implementation period. Since the water quality required in the
system is high and the system can only be replenished with expensive
demineralized water, the reduction in water losses would translate into
substantial cost savings.
100.  Air Pollution Abatement.   Emissions of particulates and S02 from coal
combustion are the primary cause of air pollution in the Katowice region and
contribute to serious local health problems. The energy savings from the project
would help to reduce emissions of these pollutants. By the end of the project
implementation period, emissions of particulates and S02 would be reduced by
about 2,770 and 1,735 tons per year, respectively.
B. Project Costs
101. The costs used for estimating the economic rate of return are the total
project costs over the period 1993-1999, including costs not financed by the
Bank, and excluding price contingencies, duties and taxes. Estimates of local
and foreign costs are in December 1993 prices. Local costs were either directly
costed in international prices or are converted to US dollars using the average
1993 exchange rate.
C. Economic Rate of Return
102. The project yields an economic rate of return of 26%. The economic rate
of return is 16% if air pollution abatement benefits are excluded. The economic
rate of return reflects the implementation of the optimization program during
1993-1999. Program benefits build up as implementation progresses, from 4% in
1993 to full value in 1999, and remain constant thereafter for 15 years.   A



- 29 -
sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the robustness of the economic rate
of return. It shows that the economic rate of return, excluding the benefits of
air pollution abatement, would be reduced from 16% to 12% if the project's
investment costs increase by 23%, or if energy savings are 27% lower.  If there
were no benefits attributable to operating, maintenance and labor costs and to
water loss reduction, the rate of return would go down to about 12%. Detailed
calculations and the results of a sensitivity analysis are shown in Annex 6-1.
D. Risks
103.  The main risk associated with the project is the possibility of delayed
increases in heat prices needed to generate the appropriate enterprise cash flow
levels and to ensure that consumers receive the proper economic signals. This
risk is manageable, given the Government's past record with regard to energy
price reform and the limited impact on the economic viability of the project
resulting from delayed implementation due to shortages in counterpart funds, if
any (para 88). The economic benefits of the investments, if undertaken in the
sequence suggested by the optimization program, are not significantly affected
by delayed implementation, since the quantities of energy savings and other
benefits would be the same, except obtained over a longer period. The risk of
declining demand has been adequately addressed in this project, since it assumes
an 8% decline in demand through the year 2000 (para 89). A more rapid decline
is unlikely, given the cost of insulating buildings and equipping them with
internal controls, as well as the scope for eliminating more HOBs. The risk of
procurement delays has been minimized by: (a) the establishment of a procurement
unit within PEC, which has already awarded several contracts under Bank
procedures; and (b) tight reporting schedules on project implementation progress
during supervision.
PART VIl - AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS
104. During negotiations, PEC agreed to:
i.    (a)  Complete  implementation  of the  core  master plan by
December 31, 1999; and (b) prepare a complete master plan for
long-term rehabilitation, modernization and future development
of its district heating system and present the draft to the
Bank by September 30, 1995.   Implementation of the agreed
recommendations of this master plan should start no later than
January 15, 1996 (para 53);
ii.   (a) Devote a maximum of 5% of the loan amount for the purpose
of prefinancing consumer installations; (b) onlend those funds
to consumers at an interest rate up to 350 basis points over
the Bank's variable interest rate, with a maximum maturity of
eight years and a grace period of up to six months (para 57);



- 30 -
iii.  Appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank
and present, within seven months after the end of each fiscal
year, audited financial statements showing its consolidated
performance and position (para 80);
iv.   (a) Submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports within 30
days of the end of each quarter; and (b) prepare and submit a
project completion report to the Bank within six months after
the closing date of the loan (para 81);
v.    Achieve a net internal cash generation ratio of at least 30%
in any one year based on a three year moving average (the
previous, the current and the next year) during the project
implementation period (para 93);
vi.   Maintain annual debt service coverage ratios of at least 1.3
times (para 93); and
vii.  Present to the Bank, by September 30 of each year, forecast
financial statements for the current and next fiscal years
(para 93).
105. On the basis of the above mentioned agreements, the project is considered
suitable for an IBRD loan in the amount of US$45 million equivalent for a period
of 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The loan would be made to PEC-Katowice and would be guaranteed
by the Republic of Poland.



I    ANNEXES






Annex 1-1
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Documents Available In the Project File
Legal
1.    Statute of PEC-Katowice
1.    Certified opening Financial Statements for PEC-Katowice as of April 1,
1992. ( Accountant's Report dated June 17, 1992)
Sdected Workcn Papers
1.    Combined Heat and Power and District Heating (P. Aro, December, 1987).
2.    Combined Heat and Power and District Heating (P. Aro, April, 1990).
3.    Core Master Plan Study for Katowice (DBDH Consult Poland, June 7, 1991)
4.    Terms of Reference for the Long-Term Master Plan Study for Katowice






Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
National Energy Balance
1.    Economic Reform and Energy Sector.   The Polish economy, which contracted
sharply in 1990-91 after the Economic Transformation Program was launched in
January 1990, shows signs of recovering. After a 12 % decline in 1990 and an 8 %
decline in 1991, GDP registered an increase of 1.5% in 1992. Among the important
structural changes which have taken place, the dominance of heavy industries has
declined and light industries have steadily increased in importance.   These
macroeconomic and structural changes have had a major impact on the energy
sector. Industrial energy consumption experienced the largest decline (15% in
1990, 12% in 1991 and 8% in 1992, the most recent year for which complete data
are available), due to the significant decrease in industrial output and the
closure or downsizing of several major energy-intensive enterprises. Residential
energy consumption also declined because of the decrease of real household
incomes combined with large increases in residential energy prices. The level
of residential energy consumption in 1992 was 14% lower than the level in 1989.
Consequently, Poland's total energy consumption decreased by almost 18% in 1990,
and by about 3% in 1991. Household consumption in 1992 stayed at the 1991 level.
2.    Declining Production,   Hard coal, lignite and natural gas are the main
energy sources produced in Poland and their production has experienced large
declines in recent years. Hard Coal and lignite: Continuing the downward trend
started in 1989 when coal mines produced a total of 111 million TOE, production
decreased by about 17 million TOE (a 15% drop) in 1990, by about 4 million TOE
in 1991 (a 4% drop), and by about 2 million TOE in 1992 (a 2% drop). With an
annual output of 75 million TOE (135 million tons) Poland is now ranked as the
world's seventh largest hard coal producer rather than the fourth as it had been
for many years until 1989. Natural Gas: In 1990 production declined by about 1
million TOE, a 31% decline from the 1989 level of 3.5 million TOE. Though it
bounced back by about 12% to reach a level of 2.7 million TOE in 1991, production
in 1992, at a level of 2.6 million TOE, was at only about 75% of the 1989
production level.
3.    Changes in Energy Trade.  Poland produced about 96% of its total energy
needs in 1992, with net imports covering the remaining 4%.   While imports
typically provide nearly 100% of oil supplies and 60-70% of gas supplies, exports
come mainly from hard coal. Because of factors such as export quotas, the abrupt
decline in exports to the FSU, and the continuous production declines, hard coal
exports dropped sharply and were in 1992 about 23% (4.5 million TOE) less than
in 1989.   On the import side, Poland imported 13.2 million TOE of crude oil in
1992, 11% (1.6 million TOE) less than in 1989. More than half of the crude oil
imports  came  from  the  Former  Soviet  Union  (FSU).    Natural  gas  imports
(exclusively from the FSU) decreased in 1991 by about 1.5 million TOE from the
1990 level (a 21% decline), and imports in 1992 stayed at the 1991 level. Energy
trade is now almost exclusively conducted in hard currencies. In monetary terms,
total energy imports in 1992 were US$2.7 billion, equal to 17% of total goods



Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 4
imports. Total energy exports were US$1.4 billion, equal to about 11% of total
goods exports.
4.    Declining Role of Coal and Increasing Role of Gas and Oil.   As the
structure of the Polish economy changes and energy prices are being adjusted
towards economic levels, Poland's energy consumption is moving away from coal
towards natural gas and oil. Tighter enforcement of environmental standards will
accelerate this change.  Though the share of coal (hard coal and lignite) in
primary energy supplies has been stable at about 76%, the share of coal in final
energy consumption has declined significantly, from 40% in 1989 to 34% in 1992.
During the same period, the share of oil and gas in final energy consumption
increased from 28% to 34% and the share of district heat increased from 21% to
27%. The drop of coal's share in final consumption reflects in part the changes
in the structure of industrial production, because industrial sectors with high
coal consumption experienced the sharpest contraction during this period.
Another factor is the increasingly higher environmental user charges and
penalties, which induce a fuel switching away from coal. Even though domestic
supplies of both oil and gas will in the short-term remain low compared to the
potential demand, domestic gas production could supply in the medium-term a
larger part of demand if Poland's reserves of natural gas and coal-bed methane
are tapped more efficiently.



Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 4
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Summary of Energy Balance, 1989-1992
('000 TOE)
:_, _:_._, _'.,_- _,__.________________. ... -:  1989  .1990 .:99   1992
DOMESTIC PRODUCTION    116486       98273     94885     93525
of which: Coal   111136   94460      90703     89189
Oil      179       175        172       216
Gas      3464      2378      2658       2586
Hydro      140        122       122        130
Other     1567      1138       1229      1404
IMPORTS     26173     24073      20182     21270
of which: Coal    656        393        38        91
Oil    14840     13113     11545      13207
Gas      6364      6778      5321       5391
Electricity  1037        897       577       433
Other     3275      2892       2701      2148
EXPORTS    -22736    -22227    -16704    -16866
of which: Coal   -19435    -19302    -14324    -14882
Other    -3301      -2925     -2379     -1984
STOCK CHANGES        805      -1138      -788       -732
TOTAL PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY    120727      98982     97575      97197
LOSSES IN CONVERSION,
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION     380301    32633      329591   321
TOTAL AVAILABLE FOR CONSUMPTION      82698     66349      64616     65075
of which: Coal    34080   21905      22463     23357
Oil & Oil Products    13978  11464      11260     12062
Gas      8513      7901      6877       6843
Electricity  8931       8248      7687      7358
Heat    17197      16831     16330     15450
CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS      82698      66349     64616      65070
Industry    30334    25797      22783     20887
Iron & Steel   8149      7348       5630      5238
Chemicals     5209      4454      3979       3868
Non-Ferrous Metals    704       561        547       336
Non-Metallic Minerals  4570      3494      3292       3149
Other Industry    11702    9940       9334      8296
Transport    9577       8056      8396      8798
Aariculture   3190       3046      2869      2728
Residence & Unspecific    34016  25062      27049     29271
Non-Eneray Use    5581       4389      3520      3386



Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 4
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
National Energy Balance, 1992
('000 TOE)
Idigenous Production                    89189       1405       216                   258S6       130                          93525
Imports                                     91                13207        2147       5391                  433                21270
xports                                 -14882                            -1202         -3                 -780               - 16866
Stock Changes                             -535  _____           136          67       -129  _________   ____                    -732
TOTAL PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY             73363       1405     13213         1012      7345        130       -347               97196
Stat istical Difference                   -388                 -254         307i                                                -332
Pblic Eiectricity                                                                              -130        130                    0
Auztoproducers of Electricity                                                                      0          0                    0
HP Plants                              -33213                             -152         -6                10407      4192    -18 772
Autoproducers of CHP                     -6541       -313                  -952        -39                  701      6260       -884
District Heating                         -9028       - 101                 -283       - 189                          6862      -2740
as Works                                  -98                              -10         11                                       -96
Petroleum Refineries                        -I               - 13034      12213        -36                  -35       -285     - 1178
Cal Transformation                      -1079                                         -50                                     -1129
Liquefaction                                                                                                                       0
Oter Transformation                                                                                                               0
OnUse                                  -1118         0                    -56       -325                -2199      -1578     -5276
Dstribution Losses                        -33                               - 18     -371                -1299                - 1721
TOTAL FINAL CONSUMPTION                 22365        991                  12062      C843                 7353      15450     65070
INDUSTRY SECTOR                          7218        134                    798       1654                3055       8029     20887
Ion and Steel                            3186                               130       546                  480        896      5238
henucals                                  163         0                    203        109                  724      2669       3868
of which: Petrochemicals                    0                              146                              78       525        749
on-Ferrous Metals                          76         3                      3        28                   169        57        336
on-Metallic Minerals                     1953         7                    105       597                  251        238      3149
Transport Equipment                        83          0                     22        41                   111       326        583
Machinery                                  359          1                    22        132                  342        661      1517
Mining and Quarrying                       149          0                    69        130                  287        592      1227
Food and Tobacco                          846          2                     56        56                  238        981      2178
aper, Pulp and Print                       40         0                     34          1                  168       690        932
Wood and Wood Products                    128        118                    33          6                   86       230        601
onstruction                                93         1                    116          3                   66       179        459
extiles and Leathier                      131          1                     5          5                  128       503        773
Other     _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _            12         2                      I___ _  1I                      4         6         25
TRANSPORT SECTOR                          287          Q                  7904          4                  451        151      8798
Air Transport                                0                              436                               1          3       440
Road Transport                              59          0                  7158          1                   68        70       7356
ailways                                   226                              262          4                 377         69        936
Internal Navigation                          2                               49          0                    6         10        66
OTHER SECTORS                           14770        776                   1524      3806                 3852       7271     31999|
Arculture                                399         14                  1479          1                  685        150      2728
ommeroe and Public                                    0                                                                           0
Residential                                                                                                1629                 1629
Oter                                   14372        762  _____45                    3804 _____           1538       7121     27642
Non-Enerx Use                               90_83                                     1380                                      3386
in Industry                                85        81                   1807       1380 ____    ___                          3352



Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Energy Pricing
1.    As a key component of the Polish Government's Economic Transformation
Program, energy pricing reform has made significant progress in: (i) eliminating
price distortions among alternate fuels; (ii) reducing subsidies in production
and consumption; (iii) enhancing the financial viability of efficient energy
enterprises; and (iv) promoting energy efficiency and conservation. The main
elements of the reform include coal price liberalization, increasing industrial
energy prices to economic levels, and gradually increasing residential energy
prices first to the levels paid by industrial consumers and then to the levels
reflecting  economic costs.    The  increases  introduced during  1990-1994  by
successive Governments have moved network fuel prices from a fraction of economic
levels to an average of about 60% of the economic levels, with individual fuels
ranging from 50-100% depending on tariff categories. The increases have produced
some very positive impacts, such as greater emphasis on energy conservation and
efficiency, sharply reduced budget layouts for energy subsidies for operations,
investments and consumption,  and drastically reduced air pollution.   More
recently, however, price adjustment has been slowed down and, as a result, energy
prices have either remained constant or, in some cases, declined in real terms.
Impact of Economic Pricing
2.    Increases  in energy prices can have an important  impact on certain
categories of consumers. For social policy considerations, the impact of energy
price increases on low-income households should be mitigated. One option is to
have a special low (life-line) rate for low income domestic consumers. Taking
consumption as a proxy, this life-line rate should be limited to a first energy
consumption block that should cover the average monthly consumption of no more
than, say, about 25% of all households. Another option is to introduce energy
payment vouchers. This would be more effective than an across-the-board subsidy
in the form of lower energy prices which benefits rich and poor alike and does
little to conserve energy. A recent study by the University of Wroclaw pointed
out that energy costs accounted for between 8-12% of income in Poland in 1992 and
1993. The World Bank's recent Poverty Assessment mission found that the maximum
percentage was paid by certain groups of pensioners (about 12%) and that poor
households devote between 8 and 11t of their expenditures on energy.
3.    Much has been made in the Polish press about the impact of energy price
increases on inflation. Misleading figures have been quoted, to the effect that
energy price increases accounted for almost two-thirds of domestic inflation
during the first three quarters of 1993. However, the fact is that final energy
consumption accounts for about 15% of Poland's GDP, and that energy accounts for
8.7% of the weighted structure of the consumer price index. The Polish Academy
of Sciences has estimated that, for 1993, energy price increases constituted 5%
out of the 39% increase in the consumer price index, i.e., one-eighth.   The
impact of energy price increases on inflation need not be major and depends to



Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 7
a large extent on the degree to which the Government compensates for these
increases through its wages policy.   One could also argue that, while not
increasing energy prices in the short term may be expedient, over the long term
the resulting increases in energy intensity and associated inefficiencies will
produce far greater impacts on the consumer price index than the comparatively
smaller increases needed now to bring energy prices to economic levels.
Defining Economic Costs
4.    Under the Bank's loan 1990 and 1991 agreements economic price levels were
defined as average West European prices before taxes for the network fuels and
as the import parity price for coal. While some of these yardsticks were rough
approximations of economic prices in Poland, using them as targets was justified
given the large discrepancies then existing between the level and structure of
Polish prices and economic costs. Now that these discrepancies have narrowed it
would be appropriate to move towards a more refined price adjustment method,
taking into account economic costs (long-run marginal cost of production) in
Poland.
5.    Economic costs depend on exogenous factors such as the price of fuels,
which depend in turn on developments in international energy prices, the expected
evolution of demand for gas, power and heat, the elasticity of substitution
between energy and other factors of production, etc.  As such, they are not
constant over time and need to be periodically reassessed. The process leading
to the establishment of economic costs should include, inter alia, the following:
(a) liberalization of coal prices, international coal trade, and adequate
transfer pricing of lignite; (b) allowing full pass-through of fuel costs for the
power and district heating sectors and for the gas sector (gas imports, domestic
purchases from independent producers); (c) allowing depreciation charges based
on revalued assets (assets are reportedly undervalued by a factor of at least
six times) ; (d) allowing for the cost of environmental equipment to monitor
pollution and to meet realistic emission and ambient standards, and the cost of
all economically justified investments; and (e) ensuring improved efficiency of
energy production and transformation, thus enabling relative cost reductions.
The Structure of Energy Prices
6.    Introduction and consistent application of economic pricing rules will
result in Polish energy prices moving to their own appropriate levels and cross-
relationships. This will stimulate efficient energy use and inter-fuel
substitution. In Poland, the basis for the structure of relative prices is the
cost of domestic coal (the predominant primary energy source which determines the
cost of power and heating),  and the cost of imported gas and oil.   It is
important that the network fuels (electric power, natural gas and district heat),
which can to some extent substitute for each other, are competitively priced
based on consistent criteria. Strict application of the economic cost criteria
would achieve that. Tariff studies have been completed over the past three years
for all three network fuels. These studies can provide further guidance, though
the gas pricing study needs updating and the recommendations of the district heat
pricing study need to be tested in one or two case studies.



Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 7
7.    The gap between current prices and prices calculated on the basis of the
above criteria is still considerable and adjustment wili have to be gradual.
Agreement on: (i) the principles of price adjustment; and (ii) their timing and
magnitude, is of great interest not only to Poland and the Bank, but also to
other multilateral lenders, commercial banks and private investors. Unless there
is a strong  commitment  to  further progress  in real  terms,  the  financial
underpinnings of many otherwise sound projects will come undone and these
projects will either falter or simply not go through.
Current Prices Versus Economic Price Levels
8.    Table 1 compares current Polish energy prices with estimated economic
prices. The latter are defined either on the basis of available pricing studies
or best estimates with reference to selected market economies in Western Europe.
Table 1: Current and Economic Energy Prices
Current        Economic       Current/
Level'/        Level          Economic
Industry              0.038          0.062/           64%
Electricity
($/kWh)                                                   L2
Residential           0.055          0.102/           55%
Industry              0.12           0.123/          100%
Gas
($/m3)          Residential           0.18           0.274/           66%
Industrial             7.6            125/            63%
District Heat
($/GJ)         Residential             6.06/          125/            50%
(paid by
households)
Coal ($/ton)    (Washed)                45             467/           98%
1/    As of October 1, 1994 at an exchange rate of 23,000 zl/US$.
2/    Estimated in the Final Report of Electric Power Tariff Study: Polish Power Grid Company, prepared by
RCG/Hagler,Bailly, October, 1993.
3/    Estimated average industrial prices on interruptible contracts in major Western European economies in
September 1994.
4/    Average residential price in the Netherlands in September 1994.
5/    Average prices in Denmark in January 1994.
6/    Government pays US$ 1.6/GJ on average above what households pay to district heating companies.
7/    Average price at Northwest European ports in 1993.



Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 7
9.    Hard Coal.  Since the elimination of uniform national coal pricing and the
subsidies on coal transportation in 1990, coal prices have risen substantially,
to the point where domestic prices for many of the washed coals (adjusted for
quality) are now close to import parity level. However, this achievement could
be eroded through exchange rate changes and if production restrictions were
phased out too quickly. Prices for unwashed coals are determined by supply and
demand, according to qualities and grades.   The export quota, which limited
exports for some time to 20 million tons per year, was suspended. The operating
subsidies to most coal mines were abolished on April 1, 1992 except to high cost
mines scheduled to be closed. However, implementation of the closure program for
these mines has been slow. This has depressed overall domestic coal prices and
reduced the profits of efficient mines.
10.   Sound pricing of coal, the predominant primary energy source in Poland, is
vital for the proper structure of energy prices, as well as for industrial
pricing and performance. Under conditions of free trade in coal, the price set
by domestic producers of coal in a competitive environment will tend to
approximate the import parity level (adjusted for quality). Coal prices have
been regulated and kept at a low level relative to international prices in the
past, either explicitly or through indirect means (such as trade prohibition and
moral suasion). While greater latitude has more recently been given to mining
companies in setting their prices, the main problem for the implementation of a
rational policy in the sector is posed by the lack of a clear exit policy towards
high-cost mines, which continue to produce at a loss, thus depressing overall
prices. This simultaneously burdens the budget with the high costs of keeping
unprofitable mines operating, and reduces profits in the efficient mines.  A
rational pricing policy, therefore, requires that the problem of unprofitable
mines be solved first.  Given the social costs and consequences of action in this
area, however, the Government has chosen for the moment to continue to allow
unprofitable mines to remain open, while imposing production ceilings on all
mines.   This policy is preferable to that of imposing minimum prices,  but
production quotas should be progressively reduced for unprofitable mines.
11.   Once restructured, the mining industry should be completely free to set its
prices in a competitive environment, with domestic prices likely to fluctuate
between export parity and import parity price, but tending towards the latter.
International coal trade, including coal imports, would not be subject to
control. The possibility of coal imports should be envisaged over the medium
term, because long-term export contracts may not enable the coal mines to divert
enough high-grade washed coal to the domestic power and industry sectors to meet
demand as environmental standards are tightened.
12.   Lignite.  The transfer price from the mine to the power plant would need
no regulation once the mine and power plant are linked in one company: the power
tariff should allow for adequate cost coverage of the combined mine/power
company. Of course, one would expect the transfer price to be set at the level
necessary to cover the production costs of the mine, including environmental
costs.
13.   Electricity.    Substantial  progress  has  also  been made  in bringing
electricity prices in line with economic costs and in reducing cross-subsidies



Annex 2-2
Page 5 of 7
from industrial to household consumers. As of September 1, 1994, the electricity
price for industry was about $0.038/kWh and the price fox households was about
$0.055/kWh. This contrasts sharply with the situation in early 1990 when the
industrial price was about $0.025/kWh and the residential price was about
$0.010/kWh.   However, a recently completed power tariff study calculated the
average long run marginal cost of electricity at the retail level in Poland to
be equivalent to about US cents 7.40/kWh (based on the current international
price of coal and the sector's future investment requirements), which is
approximately 60% above the present average price of US cents 4.53/kWh.   Of
course, the economic price is, in part, a function of the emission and ambient
air standards that Poland wishes to apply to its power industry. Ambient air
standards that exceed European Union levels would sharply increase power sector
investment costs and hence future tariff levels.   The present structure of
tariffs for high, medium and low voltage consumers appears to be approximately
correct, although some further adjustments still need to be made.
14.   Natural Gas.  Present consumption is based two-thirds on Russian imports
at a border cost of about US cents 9.4/m3 (including duty) and only one third on
domestic production with a cost of about US cents 6.4/m3 (excluding development
costs). Through mid-1996 Poland will receive about 35% (2.5 billion m3) of its
total gas imports from Russia as payment in kind for Poland's construction of the
Yamburg pipeline. After that, payment will have to be made in hard currency at
prevailing market prices. The cost of future Russian, British or Norwegian gas
deliveries may well be significantly above present import prices, since the cost
of producing and transporting the gas will be higher. Industrial prices should
reflect gas import costs plus appropriate charges for the cost of operating,
modernizing and expanding the transmission networks. As of September 1, 1994,
the average industrial price reached the economic level. Subsequent adjustments
should reflect the cost of imports. Moreover, the present tariff structure does
not differentiate between firm supply contracts and interruptable supply
contracts (all contracts are now interruptable) . The price of firm contracts
should be higher than the price of interruptable contracts because of the higher
costs associated with ensuring firm supplies. Once sufficient gas becomes
available in Poland, the present industrial tariff structure should be revised
to reflect these differences in delivery costs.
15.   As an illustration of what adjustments  may be needed costs  in the
Netherlands were considered, a country with an abundant gas supply but small
overall  size  and  low  distribution  costs.    Household  gas  prices  in  the
Netherlands, which are the lowest in Western Europe, were some 50% above those
in Poland (present average price of US cents 18/m3 in Poland versus US cents
27/m3 in The Netherlands) . It should be noted, however, that the Dutch price may
well be lower than the Polish economic price because of The Netherlands' small
size and easy topography.   Further adjustment may be needed once the cost of
distribution to households becomes better known.  According to the gas price
covenant of Loan 3215-POL, all distribution costs should be fully covered by the
end of 1995. At this stage this would require a 50% real increase for 1995, an
unlikely event.
16.   District Heating.   Heat prices have now reached an average price level of
US$7.6/GJ, that is about 63 percent of the estimated economic level (district



Annex 2-2
Page 6 of 7
heat price in Denmark as a benchmark).   The rate of government subsidies to
households for heat and hot water consumption decreased from about 78 percent at
the end of 1991 to about 20 percent as of October, 1994. Government plans to
completely phase out subsidies for residential heat and hot water consumption by
the end of 1995.
17.   District heating costs vary widely, depending on location (distance from
coal mines), type of heat generation mode (combined heat and power plant, large
utility heat-only-boilers, small dedicated boilers), size and extent of network,
consumer profile, etc. These variations are reflected in the prices of heating
companies.   During the first half of 1993, prices of district heat in Poland
averaged about US$7.2/GJ, but ranged from US$3.1/GJ (43% of the average) to
US$18.7/GJ (160%).  The household consumer subsidies have to take account of
these huge variations, providing in some cases only marginal support, and in
others over 60% of the total bill.
18.     Because of these wide variations in costs and prices and uncertainties
about economic costs, a good external minimum comparator is Denmark. Denmark has
competitive heat prices and a very efficient, predominantly coal-fired ( i.e.
comparable to Poland), CHP-based system. Questions of overall country size are
less important than for gas, due to the local nature of district heating.
However, the much higher CHP-generated heat ratio in Denmark (60%) compared to
Poland (20-30t) may well mean that the ultimate price level in Poland should be
above Denmark's level. Given the modest share of staff costs in the overall cost
of heating, this is a representative minimum economic price level that can be
used as an interim target.
19.   Petroleum Sector.   The downstream petroleum sector has been granted a
protected transition period to become fully competitive with West European firms.
Retail prices are now about 20% above US retail prices, but 40-50t below West
European prices. At this stage, therefore, appropriate levels of retail prices
are really a question of levels of taxation rather than of economic pricing.
During the transition period, gradual adjustments in real terms, and after taxes,
of retail prices would allow: (i) aligning gasoline prices to changes in the
import parity price of the different imports of crude; (ii) increasing tax
revenues for badly needed infrastructure investments; and (iii) curbing
individual traffic in favor of public transport, thereby greatly contributing to
environmental protection.
Adjustments Needed to Reach Economic Prices
20.   The above shows the broad margins by which Poland's energy prices still
fall short of the full costs of supplying and delivering energy. In order to
bridge these gaps it is necessary to develop a strategy for adequate price
increases. An important additional issue is to what extent the Government is
prepared to follow a proactive competition policy in the various energy
subsectors as a primary means of encouraging efficiency and keeping price
increases limited to the economic minimum necessary. As a minimum, efficiency
improvements can be achieved by improved management, ensuring that enterprises
spin off service companies and generally slim down their excessive work forces



Annex 2-2
Page 7 of 7
by attrition, etc. While tariff increases are necessary when prices fall short
of economic levels, it is incumbent on the Government and the sector enterprises
to do their part in keeping these increases within reasonable bounds.
21.   Table 2 summarizes the real price adjustments that would be needed for each
network fuel to reach economic price levels as estimated here, depending on the
timetable the Government wishes to adopt to achieve economic pricing.   The
schedules are based on prices as of October 1994, which are expected to stay at
the same level at least until the end of 1994.
Table 2: Magnitude of Price Increases and Number of Implementation Years
Year        Number of   Electricity       Household Gas   District
Economic    Years        Real Increase   Real Increase   Heat
Level is    Needed       Needed           Needed          Real
Reached                  Each Year        Each Year        Increase
Needed
Each Year
2000          6             8.5%            7.0%             7.9%
1999          5            10.3%            8.5%             9.6%
1998          4            13.1%           10.7%            12.1%
1997          3            17.8%           14.5%            16.5%
1996          2           27.8%            22.5%            25.7%
1995          1           63.4%            50.0%            57.9%
22.   The Government should announce a firm target date by which it intends to
reach economic price levels, such as the year 2000.  In the absence of such a
target date investment planning would remain a very difficult task, funds from
outside sources would not be forthcoming in the needed amounts, and the utilities
would not have enough internal cash flow to help finance their most urgently
needed rehabilitation, environmental retrofit and modernization investments.
There should also be a clear commitment from the Government that price
adjustments will take place at regular intervals, with quarterly adjustments
being probably the most practical and credible mechanism.



Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Katowice: Environmental Aspects
1.    Katowice - a Symbol for Pollution.  More than a hundred years of unbridled
industrial growth and mining activity with no concern for human health or the
environment have seriously disrupted the air, water and soil of the Katowice
area. The result is that Katowice is now by far the most polluted voivodship in
Poland. The Institute of Environmental Protection in Katowice calculated for
1990 a weighted index of several environmental factors (e.g., emissions of gases
and dust, industrial waste, water quality, forests, soil quality) to identify the
most dangerous regions from an ecological perspective.   Scores for selected
voivodships were: Katowice: 3,000; Legnica: 950; Krakow: 790; Tarnobrzeg:
530; Konen: 450; Bydgoszcz: 350; and Torun: 330.
2.    Air Pollution:   Emissions.   With 2.1% of Poland's surface area, the
Katowice area generated at the end of the 1980s 20-25% of gaseous and dust
emissions in the country.  Annually, 5.1 million tons of dust are emitted in the
Voivodship, with dust fall reaching 800 tons/km2 a year.  About 64% this comes
from industries and 36% from municipal heat-related sources, including boilers,
coal heaps and individual coal furnaces.   There were 3,829 significant fixed
emitters of dust in 1988; only slightly more than half had some sort of dust-
cleaning installation. Each year 2.27 million tons of gaseous pollutants are
produced, including 700,000 tons of SO2 and 210,000 tons of CO. Power plants are
responsible for 53% of these pollutants by volume (mostly fly ash and SO2),
followed by metallurgical enterprises, the chemical industry and heating plants.
Lead comes from a variety of sources, with an estimated 75% coming from cars that
are between 10-30 years old and which use gasoline with 0.15-0.35 grams of lead
per liter. Between 1980 and 1988, total gaseous emissions decreased by over 30%.
An additional decrease of 20% to 30% has been estimated for 1989-1992.
3.    The overall downward trend in emissions can be attributed largely to
declining economic activity, major industrial restructuring and plant closures.
Energy conservation started to become a factor only in late 1991, due to rising
energy prices. As a result of the ongoing economic restructuring and continuing
adjustments of energy prices, one can expect that energy-efficient industries and
services will contribute an increasing share of GDP when economic activity picks
up.   It should be emphasized that a major portion of the high ambient air
concentration of pollutants in the Katowice region is caused by the transboundary
flows of emissions. Given the economic developments in Silesia, northern Moravia
and Eastern Germany, the overall amount of transboundary and transregional flows
of emissions is expected to be reduced significantly in the future.   It is
therefore unlikely that the emissions of particulates, S02 and NOx will ever
again reach 1970s' levels.
4.    Air Pollution:  Ambient Air oualitv1.  Air quality in the Katowice area is
very poor and air pollution constitutes a major environmental problem:
-     Dustfall is three times greater than the Polish standard.  The trend
indicates a decrease in these emissions.
1/    All data are from the end of the 1980./beginning of the 1990s.  Newer
data are not yet available.



Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 2
-     The average annual level of suspended particulates is more than six
times higher than the Polish limit (314 micro,rams/m3 compared to 50
micrograms/m3) and is also considerably higher than internationally
accepted levels (World Bank: 100; European Union: 150);
-     SO2 exceeds the Polish standards by three times on average, is five
times higher than in other polluted regions of the country, and
twenty times greater than in the industrial areas of Krakow, Legnica
and Szczecin. In 1990, there have been a number of areas in Upper
Silesia where internationally accepted standards were not met;
-     NOx ambient concentrations exceed the Polish standard by a factor of
five and the trend is worsening.   The Polish standard is 50
micrograms per m3, versus the World Bank standard of 100;
-     Lead ambient concentrations  surpass the Polish limit by up to
thirteen times in Katowice, with a trend towards decreased
emissions;
-     Benzo(a)pyrene ambient concentrations are 10-24 times higher in the
Katowice area than in other regions, with a projection of increased
emission; and
-     Fluorine, formaldehyde and phenol exceed the Polish norms by 3-11
times.
5.    Health Effects.  The Katowice Voivodship ranks as the worst area in Poland
in many health indicators, and human health has suffered from this environmental
and degradation. Urban life expectancy is the shortest in Poland, and is a
function of higher mortality rates from cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and
digestive tract illnesses among both males and females over 60 years of age.
This is consistent with high levels of exposure to cancer agents, heavy
contamination of the food supply with industrial effluents, and exposure to air
pollutants capable of stressing the cardio-respiratory system.   The infant
mortality rate is one of the highest in Poland, and is correlated with dust fall,
ambient levels of lead, tar, phenols, formaldehyde and benzo(a)pyrene.   The
Voivodship also suffers from the highest incidence of premature births, genetic
birth defects, and spontaneous miscarriages in Poland.  Child health is also
adversely affected by environmental conditions that are linked to dental decay,
chronic bronchitis, reduction of IQ, and a number of other problems stemming from
high lead levels in the bloodstream. Occupational safety and health is another
area associated with environmental quality.   About 28% of all compensable
occupational diseases in Poland occurred in the Voivodship (with only 11% of the
national work force); these cases were led by occupational deafness,
pneumoconiosis, lead poisoning, vibration syndrome, and hepatitis. An average
of 150 hours are lost annually per worker due to illness.



Annex 3-1
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Heat Capacity Balance
(1992/93 Heating Season, in MWt)
Interconnected    Isolated                    I              TTAL
Network       Networks   SUBTOTAL STEAM     OTHER  In MWt 
____ _ ______________   CHP   HOB   CHP   HOB   ____                    -    1...,    _____I
... R{S1 ~LL~P CAPA(  .r.........._.
A. District Heating
CHP Chorzow                149.3  280.0                    429.3     60.7             490.0  10.9
CHP Katowice                      513.0                    513.0                      513.0  11.4
CHP Jaworzno                             118.0             118.0                      118.0   2.6
Industries                        174.0   57.0  671.0      902.0    593.0            1,495.0  33.2
PEC's HOBs                                       249.0     249.0                      249.0   5.5%
Other HOBs                                       388.0     388.0                      388.0   8.6%
Subtotal                 149.3  967.0  175.0 1Q300    2.599.3    653.7            3.253.0  72.24
B. Space Heating
Coal Stoves                                                                  796.0    796.0  17.7%
Gas/Oil                                                                       87.0     87.0   1.9%
Electricity                                                                   24.0     24.0   0.5%
Small HOBs                                                                   346.0    346.0   7.7%
Subtotal                                                                 1.253.0  1.253.0  27.8
C. Total Installed Capacity       149.3  967.0  175.0 1,308.0   2,599.3    653.7  1,253.0  4,506.0  100.01
- 1 .g: ::: . :A. . IL.A.                LE   C A..P A C : i  :-TY5  . . _ _    _ _ _ _._-
A. District Heating
A.1 Supplying PEC Katowice
CHP Chorzow                149.3  280.0                    429.3                      429.3  13.7%
CHP Katowice                      490.0                    490.0                      490.0  15.6%
CHP Jaworzno                              24.7              24.7                       24.7   0.8%
Industries                        104.7         175.7      280.4     29.2             309.6   9.8%
HOBs Belonging to PEC                           249.0      249.0                      249.0   7.9%
Subtotal                 149.3  874.7   24.7  424.7   1.473.4      29.2           1.502.6  47.8%
As%o$'.ta1 t.    58.                    1. '   28.3      91        1               100.
A.2 Not Supplying PEC
HOBs not Belonging to PEC                       388.0      388.0                      388.0  12.3%
B. Space Heating                                                                   1,253.0  1,253.0  39.9%
C. Total Available Capacity       149.3  874.7   24.7  812.7   1,861.4      29.2  1,253.0  3,143.6  100.09
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .....    .* *E A T  D E A ) _ _ _   _ _         _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,. ,  ..,  . .   ..   ..
A District Heating
Residential                                               975.4                       975.4  33.0f
Commercial                                                393.7                       393.7  13.3%
Industrial                                                 162.3                      162.3   5.5
Subtotal                                               1.51 .4                    1 .531.4  51.
B. Domestic Hot Water                                             137.7                      137.7   4.7S
C. Steam                                                                    29.2              29.2   1.0%
0.  i~tta1(A-BC}.1 68.3 7.
E Space Heating                                                                    1,253.0   1 .253.0  42.5N
F. Total Heat Dernand                                           1,669.1     29.2  1,253.0  2,951.3  100.
Noles:   CHP: Combined Heat and Power Plant; HOB: Heat-Only-Boller.



Annex 3-2
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PEC Operating Statistics
(as of end 1993)
Number of Heat Sources                                                        169
o/w: CHP plants                                                               3
Industrial sources                                                     11
PEC-owned HOBs                                                        155
o/w: Gas-fired                                                         49
Length of network (km x 2.                                                    366
o/w: CHP Katowice                                                           105
CHP Chorzow                                                           117
Other(not interconnected)                                             143
Number of substations                                                         923
o/w: hydroelevators                                                         352
Number of ftats heated                                                    122.130
Volume of flats heated ('000 m3)                                           42,283
Surface of flats heated ('000 m2)                                            8,824
o/w: inhabited area ('000 m2)                                             6,134
Coal consumption (tons per year)                                            73Z613
o/w: fine coal                                                           56,169
coking coal                                                        16,031
lump coal                                                           1,413
Gas consumption (000 m3 per year)                                            1i904
Personnel                                                                    1,330
o/w: Permanent                                                              947
Seasonal                                                              383



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PEC - Organization Chart
Managing DirectTr
PeF1rson l     Org Lnl ltitt
Iternal
Administration  PlafmingOtimiatio
OE3rtions  Vne ad Lgisics  ccontigtlen               L
1qartment  1 1mrtmmt             Department      D(  etmet-  I
{3~~~~in           R3ir             Ecnoic         Douetto
E3-  {  I{E
3~~~~"            1opuw              Cotat{ 3oumw
1  {3                    3   {r3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sse
Emerece           TrnprainAcunigOtmzto



Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Description
1.    All components of the project are part of an integrated system optimization
program prepared by qualified consultants. They are designed to enhance network
life, improve system operation, produce energy savings and improve environmental
performance. Implementation of the optimization program started in 1992 and is
expected to be fully completed by 2004. The project would finance part of the
optimization program for PEC's own system and corresponding to the time slice
1992-99 (see procurement arrangements section in main text for retroactive
financing under the project). All equipment procured under this project will be
installed in PEC's main networks supplied by the CHP plants.
A.    Objectives of the Optimization Program
2.    The program has the following main objectives: (a) improve the physical
condition of the systems to reduce water losses; (b) improve water quality to
reduce corrosion in both pipes and substation equipment; (c) reduce the heat
losses in the network; (d) introduce automation, control and metering at the
substation level to reduce heat demand; (e) permit better network monitoring; (f)
convert system control from fixed to variable flow with appropriate temperature
control in order to save energy; (g) enhance system load dispatching capability
to allow the production of heat from the least-cost units (merit order dispatch)
through network interconnection, automation and telecontrol; and (h) contribute
to improving ambient air quality in Katowice through elimination of heavily
polluting local heat-only-boilers.   The phasing-in of these objectives  is
presented in Annex 4-5.
B.   Measures to Be Taken
Reduction of Water Losses
3.    Hot water is being provided to PEC's main system from three heat sources,
of which CHP Katowice and CHP Chorzow are the most important. In 1988, water
losses in the CHP Katowice plant's system alone were about 6.5% of the plant's
total outflow of 5,024 tons per hour.  With a volume of water of 31,505 m3 in
this system and an operating period of 210 days, this meant that the water was
being replaced once every four days (52 times per year).   Over a five-year
period, these losses were brought down to 1.0-1.5%, equivalent to replacement of
the water once every 21 days (10 times per year).  This was made possible by
replacing obsolete network parts  at the rate of 7-10 km per year,  using
traditional concrete ducts and, in the last two years, using preinsulated pipes.
Similarly, water losses in the CHP Chorzow system are at 1.4-1.6%, equivalent to
a replacement once every 18 days (12 times per year, based on a plant's outflow
of 5,010 tons per hour and a system volume of 32,155 m3).



Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 7
4.    Under the project, water losses for both the CHP Katowice and CHP Chorzow
systems would be further reduced to about 0.5%, corresponding to a replacement
of the water once every 53 days (4 times per year), which is satisfactory. The
measures to be taken are: (a) sectioning valves will be installed to isolate
sections of the system in order to facilitate repair and maintenance without
causing huge water losses; (b) leaky components that cannot be repaired, such as
compensators and sectioning valves, will be replaced; (c) heat exchangers will
be installed at major substations (mostly industrial), to convert direct to
indirect connections in order to prevent unauthorized water tapping, reduce their
negative impact on the system in terms of pressure losses, and stop water
pollution by impurities coming from the secondary consumer installations; (d) the
maintenance of the network will be improved by increased leak detection,
thermography, visual inspection and other similar measures; (e) preinsulated
pipes will be used where necessary and possible to reduce, inter alia, heat
losses; and (f) improved concrete ducts will be installed in areas that are prone
to severe subsidence due to coal mining.
Improvement of Water Quality
5.    The water in the PEC system is still of poor quality, as shown below:
CborzowSystem  I.     kSStUM      Quat
[Standard
Water Quality Indicators    Unit   s0emi,&a      Ud  $eaSoo        io a
1991/92  1992/93   1            L.    ::12
Conductivity, at 25C, max  /S/cm      43540   460-1100  410-430     10
pH at 25C                    8.5-9.2  9.1-9.5   9.3-9.4   9.0-9.8    9.0-10
Water Hardness        *dH    0.1-0.25  0.15-0.2  0.0-0.15  0.0-0.02  0.0
Oxygen (02), max      mg/I   0.2-0.5  0.4-0.5   0.1-0.3   0.1-0.3   0.1
Chloride (CI-), max   mg/l    35-45    4042     26-35    26-33      5
Iron (Fe-), max       mg/l   0.1-3.0  0.18-1.2  0.05-0.14   0.1     1
Particles               mg/I    4-18    7-15      11-25    4.9-7.0   0.5
|a_/   The levels shown in this column cannot all be reached simultaneously. The pH, oxygen
and chloride levels are the main parameters for monioring water quality.
The minimum required levels are: pH at 250C = 9.5-10; Oxygen < 0.005 mg/I; and
chloride < 0.005 mg/I.
Oxygen, chloride and particle contents are at extremely high levels. This
causes corrosion in the current system, and would shorten the lifetime of the new
and sensitive equipment (e.g., plate heat exchangers) to be installed and impair
its proper operation.   Reduction of water losses will, inter alia, lead to
improved water quality because a reduced need for make-up water will decrease
oxygen levels in the water.



Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 7
6.    Gradual  improvement  of water  quality will be effected through:  (a)
filtering of part of the return water flow to reduce the amount of particles and
sludge; and (b) the installation of water filters with one millimeter mesh (mud
and metal particles filters, strainers, etc.) upstream of all pumps, valves, and
heat exchangers.   These measures, to be carried out by PEC, will reduce the
particle levels in the water to 5 milligrams per liter. Although this level is
still high compared with West European standard, it represents a very significant
improvement and will not negatively affect operation of the system.
7.    The makeup water system at the heat sources (the CHP plants) uses chemical
treatment technology.   Further improvement in water quality with respect to
reducing chloride content and water hardness can only be achieved by installing
demineralization plants for makeup water at the heat sources. At present, such
plant only exists at CHP Chorzow and demineralized water is used in the steam
boilers for electricity generation only. Because of its high cost (at least two
and half times the cost of normal water), the use of demineralized water will
become economically justifiable only once the level of water losses in the PEC
system  has  been  reduced  to  about  0.5X.         Therefore,   investments  in
demineralization plant at the heat sources (not included under this project) will
have to be undertaken once those on PEC's side have been completed. This will
be done as part of the supply contracts between the main heat sources and PEC.
8.    One major component of a program to reduce water losses and improve water
quality is the conversion of consumer substations from direct to indirect
connections via heat exchangers, with full automation capability for the larger
substations. PEC owns: (a) 356 substations of the direct type (unit size below
0.1 MWt and total capacity of 41 MWt); and (b) 546 substations of the heat
exchanger type (unit size ranging from 0.1 to 10 MWt and a total capacity of 262
MWt). Under the project, 232 units of the direct type will be converted and 259
substations will be renovated, using compact heat exchanger stations. For those
substations not owned by PEC, pressure differential valves with flow limiters
will be installed on the main network side, first at the largest consumer
substations and later at the sub-area substations, in a sequence that will ensure
that eventually all consumers will be separated from the main system. This will
enable improved maintenance and flow management, and gradual introduction of
controls at substations, without interfering with the proper functioning of the
substations not yet equipped with controls.
9.    During the period 1992-93 the reduction in water losses and the related
improvement of water quality resulted from the implementation of the optimization
program consisting of the installation of 14.7 km of preinsulated pipes, 163
sectioning valves and 8 bellow compensators (see procurement arrangement section
in main text for retroactive financing under the project). Further improvements
will be achieved during the remainder of the project implementation period
through: (a) the installation of 1,004 sectioning valves of various diameters
ranging from 100 to 900 mm; (b) the replacement of 132 leaking big bellow
compensators of diameters ranging from 150 to 500 mm; (c) the replacement of old
and corroded parts of the network with preinsulated pipes; and (d) the
installation of 491 compact heat exchangers stations and 68 pressure differential
valves for network.



Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 7
Reduction of Heat Losses
10.   Present heat losses are estimated at 8% of the total heat production.  The
optimization program would achieve a 30% reduction in these losses during 1992-
2001.   About one-third of this will be achieved through reduction in water
losses. The remainder will be achieved by replacing the oldest and most corroded
parts of PEC's main network, using preinsulated pipes where possible and improved
concrete ducts elsewhere. This corresponds to a replacement rate of about 25 km
of single pipe per year, and covering 75% of the pipe length in the CHP Chorzow
and CHP Katowice systems. Because of subsidence problems created by coal mining,
preinsulated pipes will only be installed in areas where ground movements are
within tolerable limits. In zones with considerable subsidence, and where the
axial forces exceed the strength limit allowed for the preinsulated pipes,
suitable alternative pipe technology using a steel-in-steel pipes with proper
insulation will be used.   In addition to the 14.7 km of single pipe already
installed during 1992-93, the project would finance about 152 km of single pipe
of preinsulated pipe technology, with diameters of up to 600 mm.
Substation Automation, Control and Metering
11.   Substation automation, control and metering will be accomplished through:
(a) installation of control equipment at all substations larger than 500 kWt; (b)
installation of sub-area substations for groups of smaller substations that
present similar demand characteristics; (c) conversion of hydroelevator
substations to the mixing pump or heat exchanger type (depending on size); and
(d) completion of the installation of pressure differential valves and flow
limiters for the remaining substations.
12.   To  enhance  energy  conservation,  a  metering  program  is  planned  in
combination with tariff restructuring measures.   This metering program is an
integral part of the substation retrofit/automation program. Firstly, heat and
flow meters as well as steam meters will be installed at heat producing plants,
thus enabling the introduction of realistic producer tariffs. Secondly, meters
will be installed at large industrial and residential consumers to allow charges
to be a function of actual consumption and thus encourage energy savings.
However, installing meters alone would not automatically reduce the heat
consumption if consumers are not also provided with the means to save energy by
improving their heat consumption pattern and adjusting their heat offtake (see
para 19). Currently, only 14% of PEC's own substation capacity is metered. The
proposed project will extend this to 60% of PEC's own substation capacity.
13.   The substation modernization and automation program will cover only those
stations belonging to PEC. In 1992, a pilot concept design of a substation was
prepared. Equipment components were installed and are now being tested. This
will provide the basis for PEC's substation modernization and automation program.
This program will permit the reduction of heat energy demand at the substation
level by 15% over a five year period, starting in 1994.
14.   About 292 substations with unit sizes ranging from 0.5 to 10.0 HWt and
representing a total capacity of at least 400 MWt will be partially or completely



Annex 4-1
Page 5 of 7
retrofitted and automated. Substation controls could include domestic hot water
controls, pressure differential valves, flow limiters, flow/heat meters, outside
temperature regulators, and heat exchangers. Although the control function of
the substation will initially be done at the station level by the automatic
devices, the design would include features that will facilitate the move toward
telecontrol of the substation from a central control unit.
Network Monitoring
15.   Improved network monitoring will be achieved through installation of
temperature/flow/heat meters in 38 points of the network, equipped with data
acquisition systems for telemeasurement only (without telecontrol capability).
This will enable: (a) measurement of heat on a continuous basis; (b) better
estimation of water and heat losses; (c) improved operation efficiency through
improved work and maintenance scheduling; and (d) cost savings through reduction
in labor.
Variable Flow Control
16.   Measures will be taken to convert the system from constant flow, variable
temperature control to variable flow, variable temperature control. This will
result in improved heat dispatch and a reduction in the supply temperature.  The
related investments include: (a) installation of variable speed drives for pumps
at the larger production plants (HOB or CHP) to enable the operator to dispatch
these plants at peak demand, thus improving the overall operating efficiency of
the system; (b) installation of variable speed drives at the large pumping
station and most of the large central substations; (c) connection of HOB loads
to the main network; (d) interconnection of additional parts of the system (in
cases where this is economical and practical), including consumer networks and
local HOBs; and (e) completion of the control system at the residential consumer
level  through  installation of  thermostatic  valves  (see para  19).    Close
cooperation with the large production plants and the cooperatives is needed to
ensure an integrated approach to automation, flow/temperature control and
reduction in supply temperature. For this purpose, joint investment planning and
an action program will be developed under Master Plan - Phase Two. The project
would finance the replacement of four circulation pumps at the existing pumping
station, together with the installation of variable speed drives on two pumps,
to achieve a 50% variability in water flow.
Small Boiler Elimination Program
17.   Katowice is situated in the most polluted region in Poland: the southern
region. Most of the pollution in the Katowice region originates from industrial
plants and from low-level emission sources consisting mainly of coal-fired stoves
and coal-fired boilers. In 1988, about a fifth of all soot and dust emitted in
Poland emanated from the Katowice region (12% of Poland's population) and just
five enterprises produced over 10% of the country's entire particulate emissions.
In PEC's operations area alone, there are about 3,274 MWt of heat sources
contributing to local pollution, of which 46% (or 1,495 MWt) are industrial
boilers, 30% (or 983 MWt) are small coal-fired HOBs and 24% (or 796 MWt) are



Annex 4-1
Page 6 of 7
coal-fired stoves. A detailed survey of all heat sources in the Katowice region
is not yet available.  Assuming: (i) an average heat load of 4,500 hours for
industrial boilers, 2,500 hours for small HOBs, and 1,500 hours for coal
furnaces; (ii) average efficiencies of 75% for industrial boilers, 55% for small
HOBs and 40% for coal stoves; and (iii) a coal calorific value of 22.5 MJ/kg (1%
sulfur and 20% ash content), then the amount of coal consumed in these sources
is estimated at 2.63 million tons per annum. On average, about 52,500 tons of
SO2 and 61,200 tons of particulates are emitted annually from these sources.
These emissions contribute significantly to the deterioration of the ambient air
quality in Katowice.
18.   As part of the Bank's strategy to assist the Government of Poland in
improving environmental conditions and determining the most efficient ways to
improve the ambient air quality in heavily polluted areas, the proposed project
includes a US$12.9 million boiler elimination component which aims at eliminating
52 coal-fired boilerhouses with a total capacity of about 67 MWt. This load will
be connected to the main district heating system.   The coal savings, resulting
from the shift of the heat production from the eliminated HOBs to the more
efficient CHPs and large HOBs, are estimated to be about 17,200 tons annually.
This contributes to improving the local ambient air quality in Katowice by
reducing the emissions of SO2 and particulates by about 344 tons and 1,010 tons
per annum, respectively. The connection cost for these 67 MWt coal-fired boilers
will include: (a) installation of substations with full automation, control and
metering; and (b) total replacement of the existing district heat piping system,
which is presently under-dimensioned for accommodating a larger water flow.
Consumer Installations Pilot Program
19.   Separation of the primary and secondary networks through heat exchangers
is one of the major objectives of the Project. It is an essential requirement
before thermostatic controls can be installed in secondary (consumer owned)
installations. Further adjustments in energy prices towards economic levels and
the phasing out of consumer subsidies for heat consumption will ensure a
significant increase in consumer interest in energy conservation measures.
Commercial bank funding for these purposes is virtually unobtainable. Therefore,
PEC intends to implement a pilot program to assist selected cooperatives in
financing improvements in consumer-owned heat installations such as heat
exchangers (in the case of hydroelevators not owned by PEC), substation
automation equipment, meters, and thermostatic valves. This project component
is optional, however, as much will depend on demand and on the repayment
assurances offered to PEC. A maximum amount of US$2.25 million (5% of the loan
amount) can be used by PEC for this purpose.
20.   Improved building and window insulation would be a further major step
towards enabling the consumer to further reduce heat demand.   Indeed,  the
estimated reduction in heat capacity demand from that measure alone would be in
the order of 25-30%, while improvement in consumer installations will reduce the
heat energy demand by 10-20%. The Upper Silesian Agency for Energy Conservation,
of which PEC is a shareholder, could undertake such comprehensive energy
conservation measures, including building insulation, in association with local



Annex 4-1
Page 7 of 7
construction firms.
Network Interconnection and Telecontrol System
21.   The measures to be undertaken under the project would provide the technical
basis for interconnecting the CHP Chorzow and CHP Katowice systems. They include
design features which facilitate the move towards overall teletransmission,
telecontrol and telemonitoring of the system from a central control unit. The
technical and economic optimization of the system requires the establishment of
a central control unit for the interconnected operation of the system and the
coordination of heat production and distribution.   Components of the central
control unit for data acquisition only are included in the project as part of the
network monitoring program (para 15).
22.   Measures to be taken by PEC after the project implementation period
include: (a) actual interconnection of CHP Chorzow and CHP Katowice systems, with
installation of a new pumping station in the network to rationalize system
structure and facilitate its operation; (b) implementation of the overall
teletransmission, telecontrol and telemonitoring of the main network and
substation systems; and (c) completion of the central control unit with
telecontrol systems (supervisory control and data acquisition and heat management
systems) in order to obtain full benefits.  Measures to be taken at the heat
sources will include: (a) expansion of efficient supply capacity through baseload
(CHP) and peakload (large HOB) capacity, combined with simultaneous elimination
of small HOBs; and (b) gradually increasing the share of cogenerated heat to
reach at least 60% of the heat supply capacity to the interconnected network.
Technical Assistance
23.   The project would also finance technical assistance and training for PEC
staff. An amount of US$1.2 million (foreign costs) has been allocated under the
project for this purpose. Training needs are more pronounced in the commercial
area than in the technical area. In addition, a certain amount of training for
the technical staff will be provided by suppliers of equipment to be procured
under the project. Possible technical assistance components include: (a) the
design and introduction of suitable management information system, inventory
control and spare parts management, economic and financial analysis and
accounting systems; (b) the development of in-house planning, engineering and
management capabilities for option identification, evaluation, preparation, cost
analysis and supervision of plant and network development; (c) the development
of a comprehensive master plan for the long-term rehabilitation, modernization
and expansion of the district heating system; and (d) the provision of management
and staff training and of experts' services and specialized equipment, including
data network equipment, and application programs to be utilized in the carrying
out of the project.



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$ Thousand)
1993 azt.    1994         1995        1996         1997        1998         1999            TOTAL
COM4PONENTS              L     F     L     F     L     F     L      F     L     F     L      F      L     F     Local Forigan  Towa
A. Preinsulated Pipes
(including Components)            887   998   756   848 1,645 1,848 1,876  2,108 1,876 2,108 1,928  2,166 1,928 2,166  10,896 12,242 23,138
B. Substations                        34   110   712 2,357   813 2,642 1,165  3,784 1,204 3,986 1,433  4,831   317 1,088   5,678 18,798 24,476
- Conversion to Compact Substation   34   110  375 1,160  528 1,636   850  2,670   954 3,106 1,170  3,916                3,911 12,598 16,509
- Automation, Control & Metering             337 1,197   285 1,006   315  1,114   250   880   263    915   317 1,088   1,767  6,200  7,967
C. Big Bellow Compensators             7    10   27    36    70    93 .__ __  __                                              104    139    243
D. Sectioning Ball Valves            218   278    69    90   686   872   487    622                _   _                     1,460  1,862  3,322
E. Sectioning Flap Valves                        224   294   389   492              _                                         613    786  1,399
F. Heat/Flow Meters for Network           _                  338   440   376   490   129   170                                843  1,100  1,943
G. Steam Meters                                               30   100              _                                          30    100    130
H. Pressure Differential Valves
(for network)                              _              128   213    22      37                            _             150    250    400
I. Circulation Pumps                                                     200    600                                           200    600    800
& Associated Variable Speed Drives            _                        50    100              .                             50    100    150
J. Network Strainers                                         255   318   145    182                                           400   500    900
K. Central Control Unit Components                           142   450    95    300    63   200                               300    950  1,250
L. Small Boiler Conversion /
Elimination Program               110   219   442   878  552 1,097   552  1,097   663 1,316   663  1,316   718 1,426   3,700  7,349 11,049
M. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              131   315   100  241    80   193    60    145    50   120   40        97    20    48    481  1,159  1,640
NL TOTAL BASE COSTS                1,387 1.930 2.330 4,744 5,128 8.758 5.028  9.46S 3.985 7.900 4,064  8,410 :2,9831 4,728  24,905  45.935 70,840
0. CONTINGENCIES
- Physical Contingencies                      223  450   505   857   497    932   393   778  402    831   298   473   2,318  4,321  6,639
- Price Contingencies                                     128   219   255    479   306   607  422    873   392   621   1,503  2,799  4,302
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                          223  450   633 1,076   752  1,411   699 1,385   824  1,704   690 1,094   3,821  7,120 10,941   o 
-~x
P. IMPORT DUTIES AND TAXES           200        1,085       2,110       2,348        2,005       2,192        1,263         11,203        11,203   O J
Q. TOTAL PR0JECt COStS            1,587 1.930 3,838 5.194 7.871 9J834 8128 10, 878 8689 9,285 17080 10.114 4.986 5,822  39.929 536  9Z94 
Note: L-Local costs; F-Foreign costs. Local costs include design, installation and surface preparation.



Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 2
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERV TION PROJECT
Project Costs
(Quantities and Average Unit Costs)
. __.   QUANTITY    =                           UNIT COST (USS'O00)
1992/93  1994 1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 TOTAL   Local Forweign  Toa
A. Preinsulated Pipes (km, single)
(including Components)                 14.7  10.2  24.6  29.0  29.0  29.5  29.5   166.5    65.4   73.5  138.9
B. Substations
B.1 ConversiontoCompact Substations       1    76    91   110   107   106             491      8.0   25.7   33.7
B.2 Automation, Control & Metering             70    52    58    45    35    32       292      6.1   21.2   27.3
C. Big BellowCompensators                     8    30   102                   _           140     0.7    1.0    1.7
D. Sectioning Ball Valves                   163   104   416   380                       1,063      1.4    1.8    3.2
E. Sectioning Flap Valves                          38    66                               104     5.9    7.6   13.5
F. Heat/Flow Meters for Network                          15    15      8                   38    22.2   28.9   51.1
G. Steam Meters                                           2                                 2    15.0   50.0   65.0
H. Pressure Differential Valves (for network)            58    10                          68     2.2    3.7    5.9
I.  Circulation Pumps                                           4                           4    50.0  150.0  200.0
& Associated Variable Speed Drives         _                 2                          2    25.0   50.0   75.0
J. NetworkStrainers                                       7      4      _                  11    36.4   45.5   81.9
K. Central Control Unit Components      _                18    12      8                   38      7.9   25.0   32.9
L. Small Boiler Conversion -
Elimination Program(On MWt)1              2     8    1 0    1 0  1121  12  13    67 1  55.2   109.7  164.9



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Major Equipment Items
Package   Preparation of Bidding Documents I       Bidding Pwed                   Bld Evaluation Period        Award of Contract
EOUIPMENT          Series             Issuance of   IBRD      Issuance   Addenda      Bid        Start    Evaluation    IBRD    Issuance of
& MATERIALS        Number    Start   Documents  Review &        of Bid      &        Opening    Tender   Report to   Review &    Letter of  Signing of
/ Cost (-) Preparation  to IBRD    Approval : Documents Clarifications    : Evaluation    IBRD    Approval  Acceptance  Contract
YEAR 1994 (FOR DELIVERY STARTING IN 1994)
A. Preinsulated Pipes 1 / $1.0 30-Sep-93 29-Dec-93  06-Jan-94  10-Jan-94  03-Feb-94 25-Feb-94  28-Feb-94 28-Mar-94  08-Apr-94  15-Apr-94 13-May-94
B. Substations
B.1  Conversion  2 / $1.2  03-Jan-94 28-Mar-94  22-Apr-94  29-Apr-94 25-May-94  16-Jun-94  17-Jun-94  15-Jul-94  28-Jul-94  04-Aug-94 01-Sep-94
B.2  Automation  3 / $1.2  18-Jan-94  12-Apr-94 09-May-94  16-May-94  09-Jun-94  01-Jul-94   04-Jul-94 01-Aug-94 12-Aug-94  19-Aug-94 16-Sep-94
D. Flow/Heat Meters  4 / $1.1  10-Feb-94 24-Mar-94  20-Apr-94  27-Apr-94 23-May-94  14-Jun-94  15-Jun-94  13-Jul-94  26-Jul-94  02-Aug-94 30-Aug-94
E. Boiler Elimination  5 / $1.0  17-Feb-94  21-Apr-94 18-May-94  25-May-94  20-Ju94 4  12-Jul-94   13-Jul-94 10-Aug-94 23-Aug-94  30-Aug-94 27-Sep-94
YEAR 1995 (FOR DELIVERY IN 1995 AND 1996)
A. Preinsulated Pipes 6 I $4.0 31-May-94 23-Aug-94 19-Sep-94  26-Sep-94  20-Oct-94 11-Nov-94  14-Nov-94 12-Dec-94 23-Dec-94  30-Dec-94 27-Jan-95
B. Substations
B.1  Conversion  7 / $4.0  10-Oct-94  02-Jan-95  27-Jan-95  03-Feb-95  01-Mar-95 23-Mar-95  24-Mar-95  21-Apr-95 04-May-95  11-May-95 08-Jun-95
B.2  Automation  8 / $2.1  25-Oct-94  17-Jan-95 13-Feb-95  20-Feb-95  16-Mar-95  07-Apr-95  10-Apr-95 08-May-95 19-May-95  26-May-95 23-Jun-95
C. Boiler Elimination  9 /I2.01105-Aug-94  28-Oct-94 24-NOV-94 || 01-Dec-94 27-Dec-94 I 18-Jan-95 || 19-Jan-95 I16-Feb-95 01-Mar-95  08-Mar-95 05-Apr-95
YEAR 1996
NO PROCUREMNT ACTIVrIY
___  _____                 YEAR 1997 (FOR DELIVERY IN 1997,1998 AND 1999)
A. Preinsulated Pipes 10 / $4*.0 20-Feb-96 14-May-96 10-Jun-96  17-Jun-96  11-Jul-96 02-Aug-96  05-Aug-96 02-Sep-96 13-Sep-96  20-Sep-96  18-Oct-96
B. Substations              II
B.1  Conversion  11 / $5.7| 07-Oct-96  01-Jan-97 28-Jan-97  04-Feb-97  28-Feb-97 24-Mar-97  25-Mar-97  22-Apr-97 05-May-97  12-May-97 09-Jun-97
B.2  Automation  12 I $1.8|| 24-Oct-96  16-Jan-97 12-Feb-97  19-Feb-97  17-Mar-97  08-Apr-97  09-Apr-97 07-May-97 20-May-97 27-May-97 24-Jun-97
C. Boiler Elimination 13 / $2.2| 05-Aug-96  28-Oct-96 22-Nov-96 || 29-Nov-96 I 25-Dec-96 I 16-Jan-97 II 17-Jan-97  14-Feb-97 27-Feb-97  06-Mar-97 03-Apr-97
YEAR 1998
x
NO PROCUREMENT ACTIVITY
() Note: Costs are in US$ million.



Annex 4-4
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSER^IATION PROJECT
Disbursements Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD FY       SEMESTER              WITHDRAWALS            DIBURSEMENT
Fiscal Year      ENDING          AMOUNT  CUMULATIVE            PROFILE
1995      December 31, 1994        2.70       2.70               6.0% /la lb
June 30, 1995         1.80        4.50              10.0%
1996      December31, 1995         3.60       8.10              18.0%
June30, 1996          3.60       11.70             26.0%
1997      December 31, 1996        9.00      20.70              46.0%
June 30,1997          3.60       24.30              54.0%
1998      December 31, 1997        7.20      31.50              70.0%
June 30, 1998         9.00       40.50              90.0%
1999      December 31, 1998        1.80      42.30              94.0%
June 30,1999           1.80      44.10              98.0%
2000      December 31, 1999        0.90      45.00             100.0%
/a Includes retroactive financing.
/b Starting FY95, disbursement profile follows Bank's standard disbursement profile for
the energy sector in Europe and Central Asia Region, issued on August 1993.



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Objectives)
192  |  1903   r 194           199s       19 I      U197      19Q$       199       2000       2001      2002       2003      20041 |
OJECTis                             1 234123 4 1 2 3 4 1234123 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 t                   2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1                2 34 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1   2
1. Reduction in Water Los                                                                  34_412341234_2_4123412I4I2341234
krom 1.5% to 0.5%                                         II                           I-
2. lmprovement in Water Qulity
on PMCSytem                                             I
3.    i n  t  s   _  _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _    _   _    _   _   _   _   .- ............................................ -.  .-   ....  _   _   _~~~..........
-Ali. Hea Sources......
3. Reductio in Network Heat Losses
krm 8z6 to 55                                                           
4. Reduction in Subsation Heat Energy
Demand by 15z throghAutomagh  onControl                                  1                            1111111
& Mering - On PE's own substatons        _
5. Network Monitorng through Flow/Heat
Mstwing - Dta Acquidion Only             _ _ _ 
6. Automato, Teeannisuion & Telecontrol
- Netwrk                                                                                                                 I
- Substaos                                                                                                                                        11 11-
7. Variable Flow Control
Reduction of Supply Tmperature
S. Network interconnection
Ch               _|Iw Kai S iI yIIII ImI
9. Boiler  liminatioAC_onversion
(S2boilhoum.s7W MM                         _ * **_***_*_***_**
PEC Kawice's Rponsibility                                       Heat Sources' Responsibility                      Actvity Continuing in the Future
CD
x
4J,



Annex 5-1
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PEC Tariffs 1/
-.':EAT                .:''
Residential /2                US$/m2/Month            0.49
Commercial   2/               US$/m2/Month            0.67
Capacity      US$/MW/Month          2,474.70
Industrial
Energy                 US$/GJ           2.32
HOT WATER:
Residential 2/                US$/m2/Month            0.23
Commercial   2/               US$/m2/Month            0.37
Industrial    l                       US$GJ1           6.35
.___.   _ PROCESS STEAM
Capacity      US$/MW/Month          2,474.70
Industrial
Energy                 US$/GJ           2.32
Note:
1/ As of January 15, 1994 based on exchange rate of 21.500zl/USS.
2/ For unmetered consumers only. Metered consumers pay the same
charges as industrial consumers.



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forecast Income Statements.1993-2000
(US$ '000)
1   1993       1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000
alel (TJI                                 9,926       9,808      9,692      9,578       9,464      9,352       9,241      9,132
verago Price (I/GJ)                        6.12       6.71        7.35       8.05        8.82       9.67       10.59       11.61
avenue
Sales                                   60,765      65,793      71,237     77,132     83,515      90,426     97,909     106,011
Other                                       38         42          46         50          55         60          66         72
Total                                  60,803      65,835      71,283     77.182     83,570      90,486     97,975     106,083
Fuels                                    2,866       3,037      3,218       3,409      3,453       3,498      3,543       3,588
Purchased Energy                        40.785      42,640      44,579     46,606     48,725      49,352     49,986      50,629
Materials                                1,400       1,738       2,178      2,681      3,214       3.821      4,382       4,948
Contractual Services                     3,443       4,274       5,357      6,593      7,905       9,396      10,776     12,170
Wages                                    3,781       4,069       4,380      4,714      5,073       5,460      5,876       6,324
Depreciation                             2,669       3,075      4,447       6,073      7,947      10,196      12,710     15,677
Total                                  54,944      58,832     64,158      70.076     76,317      81,722     87,273      93,337
Operating Income                           5,859      7,003       7.125       7,106      7,253      8,764      10,702      12,746
Non-Operating Revenues (Expenses)         (1,038)         0           0          0          0           0           0          0
Interest Payment                              0         346         903       1,563      2,194      2,785       3,162       3.094
axes                                      1,928       2,663      2,489       2,218      2,024      2,392       3,016       3,861
et Income                                 2,893      3,994       3,733      3,326       3,035      3,588       4.524       5.791 1         X
Appropriation of Net Income                1,446          0           0          0           0          0           0          0
Retalned Earnings                          1,447       3,994      3,733       3,326      3,035       3,588      4.524       5,791
Operating Ratio                          90%        89%         90%         91%        91%        90%         89%       88%
|Average Profit Margin                    5%         6%          5%         4%          4%         4%          5%          5%



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forecast Balance Sheets,1993-2000
(US$ '000)
1993       1994       1996        1996        1997       1998        1999       2000
ASSETS                                    63,362     74,479      99,324     127,315    157,953    193,105    230,436      271,144
Fxed Asets
Gross Value of Fixed Assets             63,485      76,879    111.171     151,834    198,668     254,906    317,762     391,929
Less Accumulated Depreciation          (20,392)    (23.467)    (33.424)    (46.496)    (63,3331    (84,822)   (111,876)   (145.772)
Net Fixed Value                         43,093      53,412     77.747     105,338    135,335     170,084    205,886     246,157
Work in Progress                         2,565       1,203       1.771      1,900       1.917      2,129       1,786      1,740
Total                                  45,658     54,615      79,517     107,238    137,252    172.213    207,672     247,897
Cunent Assets
Cash & Banks                               302       1.371        864        735         873        622         817        954
Accounts Receivable                     15,687      16,583     16.785      16,906     17,161      17,342     18.777      18,879
Inventory                                1,715       1,910      2.158       2,436      2,667       2,927      3,170       3,415
Total                                  17,704     19,864      19,807     20,077      20,701     20,891      22,764     23,247
IABILITIES & EQUITY                      63.362     74,479      99,324     127.315    157.953     193,105    230,436     271,144
Cunent Liability
Accounts Payable                        11,204      11,610     12,269      12,625     13,487      12.737     13,278      13,404
Other                                      654        698         747        801         855        895         933        972
Total                                  11,858     12,307      13.016     13,426      14,342     13,632      14,211     14.376
Long-Term Debt                              985       7,659      16,417     25,882      33,782     42,192      44,110     40.360
Equity
Statutory Fund                          26,529      26,529     26.529      26.529     26,529      26,529     26,529      26,529           >
Enterprise Fund                         20,062      20,062     20,062      20.062     20,062      20,062     20,062      20,062        0  :
Asset Revaluation Fund                       0          0      11,644      26.434     45,221      69,085     99,396     137,898          I 
Special Reserves                         2,015       2,015      2,015       2,015      2,015       2,015      2,015       2,015         Oil
Retained Earnings                        1,913       5,907      9,640      12,967     16,002      19,590     24,113      29,904
Total                                  50,519     54,513      69,890     88,007     109,829    137,280     172,115    216,408
DebV(Debt Equitv)                    I   2%         12%    1   19%         23%         24%         24%        20%         16% 
Current Ratio (times)                    1.5         1.6        1.5         1.5         1.4        1.5         1.6        1.6



POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forecast Funds Flow Statements. 1993-2000
(US* '000)
1   1993        1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        1999        2000
SOURCES                                     7,649     16,752      20,330      22,645     23,100      27,370     27,206      28,423
ntemal Cash Generation
Operating Income                          5,859       7,003      7,125       7,106       7,253      8,7S4      10,702      12,746
Non-Operating Income                     (1,038)         0           0           0          0           0          0           0
Depreciation                              2,669       3,075      4,447       6,073       7,947     10,196      12.710      15,677
Total                                   7,490      10.078      11.572      13,180     15,200      18.960     23,412      28,423
State & Local Contrlbution                   159           0           0          0           0          0           0           0
Borrowing                                      0       6,674       8,758       9.465      7.900       8,410       3,793          0
APPUCATIONS                                 7.649     16,752      20,330      22,645     23,100      27,370     27.205      28,423
nvystment Program
The Project                               3,517       8,832     17,705      19,004      15,974     17,194      10,758          0
Other Investments                            0       3,200           0           0       3,200      4,100       7,100      17,400
Total                                   3,617      12,032      17,706     19,004      19,174      21,294     17,858      17,400
bt Servie
Principal                                    0           0           0           0          0           0       1,875      3,750
Interest                                     0         346         903       1,563       2.194      2.785       3,162      3,094
Total                                       0         346        903        1,563      2194       2,785      5.037       6.844
axes                                1      1.928      Z663        2.489      2218       2.024       2.392      3,016       3.861        O!
4prpqla bronOf Notln hMX                 1,446           0          0           0           0          0           0           0
n hWekCnga CPtpk                       758         642       (259)        (111       1430)      1,151      1,099         182        (.
Ch a  Banks                             0       1,069       (5071       (1293        139       (251)        195_        137
LAMMernd                                                             - G
fllnternal Cash Generation Ratio      I _4___         5-8%    j 52%    J 51%             58%    J 65%    I 76%    j          5
k!tService Coverage (tfmes         in...            21.4      10.1   J     7.0         6.0         8.0      4.03.



Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERI'"TION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
A. Project Benefits
1.    Energy Savings.  Energy savings will come from four sources:
(a)   Reduced network heat losses. Network heat losses result mainly from
the use of old and corroded pipes of traditional technology and from
water losses. During the project implementation period, heat losses
as a percentage of PEC's annual sales will be reduced from 7.7% in
1993 to 6.2% in 1999.  This is equivalent to about 178 TJ energy
savings per year at the heat sources, or 12,170 tons of coal.
(b)   Better disRatching and lower water supply temperature at the heat
sources. The improved dispatching of heat sources will result in an
increased share of cogenerated heat. Electricity generated in CHP
mode due to higher efficiency is estimated at about 5.7 GWh per
year.   Reduced temperature of return water will also result in
higher efficiency at CHP plants, and result in increased electricity
generation  of about  6.3 GWh per year.    Electricity  savings,
estimated at 1.4 GWh per year, will come from a reduction in pumping
energy, obtained through the reduction of the supply temperature
combined with the introduction of variable flow control.   The
combination of additional CHP-generated electricity and electrical
energy savings from these measures is 13.4 GWh per year.
(c)   Automation, control and meterinQ at PEC's own substations.  These
measures will generate energy savings equivalent to 15% of PEC's
annual heat sales, amounting to 1,489 TJ at the heat sources. This
is equivalent to gaining about 108,000 tons of coal per annum.
(d)   Small Boiler Elimination.  Coal savings, resulting from the shift of
heat production from the 67 MWt of HOBs to be eliminated to the more
efficient CHPs and larger HOBs, are estimated to be about 17,200
tons annually.
2.    Network Life Extension.  The replacement of 167 km of old network pipes
with pre-insulated pipes will increase the average lifetime of the network from
about 10 years to at least 30 years.   This will reduce the annual network
replacement from its 1993 level of 16.7 km to 5.6 km from 1999 onwards, and defer
investment in the network.
3.    Reductlon In Oierating and Maintenance Costs.  The installation of modern
and efficient equipment on the main network and the elimination of small HOBs
will reduce operating and maintenance (O&M) costs.   O&M costs for the main
network are estimated at US$15,800 per kilometer of pipe replaced and are



Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 3
expected to be reduced by about 5% to US$15,090.   O&M costs for HOBs are
estimated at US$18,700/MWt. The elimination of small HOBs and replacement with
substations will reduce O&M costs to about US$7,250/MWt. The replacement of 167
km of pipes and the elimination of 67MWt of HOBs will reduce annual O&M costs by
US$135,000 and US$767,000, respectively.
4.    Reduction in Labor Costs. The principal staff performance indicator at PEC
in currently about 8.6 TJ of heat sales per employee. Under the project, this
indicator is expected to improve by 5% to 9.0 TJ per employee.  Assuming an
average yearly salary of US$1,917, such an improvement would result in annual
savings in labor costs in an amount of US$270,000. Furthermore, the elimination
of small HOBs and their replacement with substations will achieve a 75% reduction
in associated manpower requirements.   Assuming average annual salaries of
US$1,757 for HOB employees and US$2,108 for substation employees, savings in
labor costs will amount to US$288,000 annually.
5.    Reduction In Water Losses.   It is estimated that water losses will be
reduced by about 506,000 tons per year.
6.    Air Pollution Abatement. The energy savings achieved under the project are
equivalent to about 138,000 tons of coal per year. Assuming a coal quality with
a 20% ash content and a 1% sulfur content, the total reductions in SO2 and
particulates emissions are estimated to be 2,770 and 1,735 tons per year,
respectively.
B. Project Costs
7.    The costs used for estimating the economic rate of return are the total
project costs over the period 1993-1999, including costs not financed by the
Bank, and excluding price contingencies, duties and taxes. Estimates of local
and foreign costs are in December 1993 prices. Local costs are either directly
costed in international prices or are converted to US dollars using the average
1993 exchange rate.
C. Economic Rate of Return
8.    The project yields an economic rate of return of 26%, or 16% if air
pollution abatement is excluded from the benefits. The economic rate of return
reflects the implementation of the optimization program during 1993-1999.
Program benefits build up in proportion to the progress of project
implementation, from 4% in 1993 to full value in 1999, and remain constant
thereafter for 15 years. The calculation of the economic rate of return and a
sensitivity analysis are shown in he table below.



Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 3
POLAND - KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                      -20 13
COSTS ('000 US$)
Local                                       (1,392)  (2,557)  (5,636)  (5,528)  (4,380)  (4,468)  (3,281)
Foreign                                    (1,941)  (5,203)  (9,622) (10,402)  (8,682)  (9,244)  (5,203)
Total                                    (3,333)  (7,7601 115.258) 115,930) (13,062) (13,7121  18,4841
BENEFITS ('000 US$)
1. Energy Savings a/                            343    1.140    2,709    4 346    5 689    7.099    7.971    7971.
Better Dispatching & Lower Water Temperature   18        61      146      234       306      382       429      429
Automation, Controlling & Metering            255      848    2,014    3,232    4,230    5,278    5,927    5,927
Reduction in Network Heat Losses               29        96      227      365       478      598       669      669
Small Boiler Elimination Program               41       135      321      516       675      842       946      946
2. Network Life Extension b/                      73      243      577       926    1,212    1,512    1,698    1,698
3. Reduction in 0 & M Costs cl                   39       129      307       492      644       Am       9        902
Small Boiler Elimination Program               33       110      261      418       548      683       767      767
System Efficiency Improvement                   6        19       46       74        96      120       135      135
4. Reduction In Labor Costs c/                    24       80      190       304      39        497      55        558
Small Boiler Elimination Program               12        41       98      157       205      256       288      288
Labor Productivity Improvement                 12        39       92      147       193      241       270      270
5. Reduction In Network Water Losses d/           15       51      120       193      253       315      354       354
6. Air PollutionAbatement./                     200       665    1,580    2,534    3,317    4,139    4,648    4,648
Total                                      693    2,308    5,482    8,796   11,513   14,366   16,131   10,131
NET BENEFITS ('000 US$)                       (2,640)  (5,452)  (9,776)  (7,134)  (1,549)       654    7,647   16,131
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN   26%
Note:
a/ Coal price is assumed to be $50/ton and variable portion of bulk electricity price is $0.032/kWh.
b/ Unit price for preinsulated pipes is $152,790/km.
c/ Estimated on the basis of present operation, maitenance and labor costs provided by PEC.
d/ Price of domineralized water is $0.7/cubic meter.
a/ Benefits attributed to particulates removal are US$2,160 per ton, and to S02 removal US$325 per ton.
Sensitivity Analysis of the Economic Rate of Return
Base Case    26%
No Benefits to Air Pollution Abatement    16%
Project Costs 23%  Higher & No Benefits to Air Pollution Abatement    12%
Energy Savings 27%  Lower & No Benefits to Air Pollution Abatement    12%












POLAND
KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY PROJECT
DISTRICT HEATING NETWORK OF KATOWICE
-     PROJCT AREA BOUNDARY                                       AREAS SERVED BY DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE OP PEC KATOWICE
Pd-nily 7,000 - 20,000 ..h.bilon, p.r nq. kn..
LIMITS OF TOWN
AREAS SUPPtIED FROM HOR, BELONGING TO PEC KATOWICE
COMBINED HEAT AND POWER PLANT ICHPI                          *.ity 2.000 -7.000 .h.bif..t, p., *q in. I
AREAS SUPPLIED BY COAL STOVES FOR SPACE HEATING
HEAT ONLY BOILER PLANT IHOR                             - Jden.I-y. 2,000 - 7,000 inl.hb6on-, p.r .q n..)
AREAS OF KATOWICE CITY SUPPLIED PROM EXISTING NOOR,
*     LOCAL HOB, BELONGING TO PEC KATOWICE                         NOT BELONGING TO PEC KATOWICE
EXISTING PUMPING STATION                                     Id.-ty 2,000 7,000 i.h.6.1-1, p., q.k.. 
OPEN LAND AND FORESTS
EXISTING HOT WATER PIPES Id.o-..r., in
- - --  PLANNED HOT WATER PIPES (di-tr-n                     - - -i-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\_      s                IANOW~ANOICE3
/SW5ETOCHLOWICE *  w   i           . i |                         (   ~~BEDZIN
ICE t  _   IlYl   Z    la t    CZELADZ                                      EC BEDZIN    -- ,.-
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\                          ~~~~~SOSNWIEC
KWSiS                              _            1           |    HMN SZOPIENICEI'              \,
H                 K%/HOWK W1 iIECZORl,4  4                                                 \O(
| r + _ ] ~~~HOB I1\/
\                                          .      |                             _    st .EU-1
>-\ ..J17       
4   /    ^   /                    ~~~~~~~~~~~MURk*(' - >                  ESOLA/ 
) 0P\oznon 
>     PO         D                   KATOWICE                                  SOLA                                    E
\5 '. .K,oWe  WSOB /AWORZNO
R E P U B L I C                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SLOVAKMYSLOWIC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BAltic    o                     R REPB SIAN 'LITHUANIA.rE
q  / Goonsi a---  x r-~~~~~ ~                                             ~            ~~~~ 54.'-   
pStezein   2'          J      \3~~BELARUS                                                                            l
= e ~~o P OLAND  .--   
_d           tS.       *Klwicf   
     ZcH          x. \_X#>_   -_              KAIEoLIKtonsAi                                             a--              --Di
1   oo  \ J \ .( StOVAK 7 )L 6
REPUBLIC                                       UKAN                                       3 ucwntsoREPBtC   



