Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3809 POL
                              Loan Agreement
              (Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                  DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE IN KATOWICE
                          Dated November 30, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3809 POL
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE
IN KATOWICE (the Borrower).
    WHEREAS (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
    (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3, of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Statutes" means the corporate statutes of the Borrower, dated
April 29, 1992, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
    (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
    (c)   "Core Master Plan" means the Borrower's plan, agreed with the
Bank, for the optimization of existing facilities as the same may be
modified from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  3
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                 six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices and safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
    Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the rehabilitation or
replacement of consumer-owned heat facilities referred to in Part A (6) of
the Project on terms whereby the respective consumers shall undertake, by
written contract with the Borrower, to pay the cost of such rehabilitation
or replacement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
an interest rate not to exceed 3.5% (350 basis points) above the interest
rate charged by the Bank referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, a
payment period not to exceed eight years and a grace period not to exceed
six months.
    (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such written
contracts in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
    Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
environmental and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
    Section 4.02. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   implement the Core Master Plan in accordance with a time-schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank, designed to ensure that such implementation shall
be completed by December 31, 1999; and
    (b)   (i) develop, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
the comprehensive master plan referred to in Part B (2) of the Project; (ii)
by September 30, 1995, complete and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, the initial draft of said plan as so developed; and (iii) by
January 15, 1996, finalize, on the basis of the Bank's comments thereon,
said plan and initiate the implementation thereof in accordance with a time-
schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
    Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than seven months after the end of each such
                year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
                such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit
                by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
    Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall produce, for each fiscal year, funds from internal sources equivalent
to not less than 30% of the annual average of the Borrower's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the
previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
    (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                       operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                       contributions in aid of construction, net non-
                       operating income and any reduction in working
                       capital other than cash; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                       including administration, adequate maintenance and
                       taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                       provision for depreciation and other non-cash
                       operating charges), debt service requirements, all
                       cash dividends and other cash distributions of
                       surplus, increase in working capital other than cash
                       and other cash outflows other than capital
                       expenditures.
         (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
Page  6
         between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related
                       to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                       taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                       above.
        (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means the
                difference between current assets excluding cash and
                current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
         (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
                other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
                business be converted into cash within twelve months,
                including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
          (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which
                will become due and payable or could under circumstances
                then existing be called for payment within twelve months,
                including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                dividends.
         (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
        (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
                account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
                construction, related to operations.
        (viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
                such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
                or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the
fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
                which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
                (A)    under a loan contract or agreement or other
                       instrument providing for such debt or for the
                       modification of its terms of payment on the date of
                       such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                (B)    under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                       agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                       entered into.
         (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                 between:
Page  7
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                       operations adjusted to take account of the
                       Borrower's rates in effect at the time of the
                       incurrence of debt even though they were not in
                       effect during the twelve-month period to which such
                       revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations
                       including administration, adequate maintenance,
                       taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                       provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related
                       to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                       taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                       above.
          (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guaran-
                tor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
                be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the Statutes shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to effect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
    Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 8.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA),
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For the Borrower:
          District Heating Enterprise
            in Katowice
          40-126 Katowice
          ul. Grazynskiego 49
          Republic of Poland
                                         Telex:
                                           0315724 PL
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in Warsaw, Poland, as of the day and year first above
written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ P. Knotter
                                                Authorized Representative
                         DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE IN KATOWICE
                       By /s/ H. Simy
                              E. Gwozdz
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                     40,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(2)   Consultants'               1,200,000      100% of foreign
      services and                              expenditures
Page  9
      training
(3)   Unallocated                3,800,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     45,000,000
                                ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures (a) prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $4,500,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1992; and (b) for
equipment for rehabilitation or replacement of consumer-owned heat
installations unless they do not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$2,250,000.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist in the carrying out of
programs to upgrade the facilities of the Borrower and improve the
management and operations thereof.
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
    Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate and modernize existing
district heat facilities to: (1) extend network life and minimize network
leakage; (2) ensure better load dispatch and temperature reduction; (3)
improve load management and reduce energy losses; (4) facilitate accurate
metering of both energy purchased from combined heat and power plants and
energy sold to residential and industrial customers; (5) reduce air
pollution through small coal-fired boilers elimination or conversion to gas-
fired boilers; and (6) rehabilitate or replace selected consumer-owned heat
installations.
Part B:
    Carrying out a program to strengthen institutional resources for the
proper planning, execution and management of network operation and
development, including: (1) (a) the design and introduction of suitable
management information, inventory control and spare parts management and
economic and financial analysis and accounting systems; and (b) the
development of in-house planning, engineering and management capabilities
for option identification, evaluation, preparation, cost analysis and
supervision of plant and network development; (2) the development of a
comprehensive master plan for the long-term rehabilitation, modernization
and expansion of the district heating system; and (3) the provision of
management
and staff training and of experts' services and specialized equipment,
including data network equipment, and application programs to be utilized
in the carrying out of this Part of the Project.
                                   * * *
Page  10
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning May 15, 2000
    through November 15, 2011            1,875,000
____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in        Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other international recognized standards forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees are supplied through a
limited number of sources up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of bids obtained from a list, acceptable to the Bank, of qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof).
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Contracts for items which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
Page  12
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to: (A)
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
Page  13
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  14
