Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIM!AL USE ONLY
C-i /qc'7- k3-'&
Report No. 7084-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1988
Southern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
lbis document has a restricted distributiou and may be used by redp ents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its colltents may not otherwse be dblocksed wtout Woxld Ban authodzidon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   - Metical (pl. Meticais)
At appraisal              US$1     -        400 Meticais
(October 1987)           !f100             US$0.25
At negotiations           US$l     -        450 Meticais
(March 1988)              M100             US$0.22
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)        .      3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m sq.)       10.76 Squate Feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF      -  Cost, insurance and freight
DECCM    -  Education and Culture Directore,te of the City of
Maputo, School Construction Office
EP1      -  Grades 1 through 5 (primary education, level 1)
EP2      -  Grades 6 and 7 (primary education, level 2)
ERP      -  Economic Recovery Program
ICM      -  Commercial Institute of Maputo
INDE     -  National Institute for Educational Development
ISP      -  Instituto Superior Pedagogico (Institute for Advanced
Pedagogical Training)
MINED    - Ministry of Education
PROFORMA -  Gabinete Tecnico de Gestao de Projectos Educacionais
(Project Management Unit)
SETEP    -  State Secretariat for Technical and Vocational
Training
UEM      -  University Eduardo Mondlane
ZIP      -  Zona de Influencia Pedagogica
IDA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR           SCHOOL YEAR             UNIVERSITY YEAR
January 1 - December 31      February - December          August - June



FM OFFICmL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............... .........................   i
I .   INTRODUCTION ..................................... ......  ...o...   1
II . THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..................................................   2
A.  Sectoral Context ..... ...  ..............................       2
B. Key Sectoral Issues . .......... .......  ... *.. . .........   5
1. Poor Quality and Low Efficiency of Primary Education..   5
2. Insufficient Production of Middle-Level Technicians ...   6
3. Shortage of University-Level Graduates          ...............   6
4. Need to Strengthen Educational Planning and
Financial Management .................. .... ......   7
5. High Unit Costs ....6          ..................   .........  7
C. The Goverrment's Strategy so* ....  ..... . .   ...........  .......   8
D. The Bank Group's Role        .........................I... .   9
III. THE PROJECT .     ...........................................  10
A. Project Objectives and Description ......               .................  10
1. Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Primary
Education in the City of Maputo ..........**.........  10
2. Strengthening the Quality and Relevance of
Post-Secondary Training        ..........................  12
3. Improving Education Sector Financial Management,
Planning, and Project Implementation ... o..........  14
B.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ............... .........  17
C.  Project Admini;tration ... ......... .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. . ..  .  20
1. Preparation, Management, and Implementation ..........  20
2. Procurement Plan ....... .  ......................... .... .  23
3. Disbursement ..      ...............     .......................  24
4. Special Account . ..................................... 24
5. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting ..................  25
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........       ...............................  25
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................  26
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Mozambique in October 1987. Mission members were Ms. Himelda Martinez
(educator, task manager), Ms. Teresa Genta-Fons (counsel), Mr. Ernesto
Schiefelbein (economist), and Mr. Luis Secco (architect, UNESCO). The
report was drafted by Janet Leno (consultant). Ms. Shelly Thorpe assisted
in preparation of cost tables and was responsible for report processing.
A contribution on the Faculty of Engineering was prepared by Dean Carlos
Quadros.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rowipints- only in the performancem
|of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorizgtio J



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1    Documents Contained in the Project Files
1-2    Basic Data Sheet
1-3    Comparative Education Indicators
1-4    Ministry of Education - Organigram
2-1    Basic Enrollment Data
2-2    Evolution of Chief Indicators of the Education System (1975-1984)
2-3    Structure of the Education System - Comparison of Old and New
Structures
2-4    State Expenditure on Educations  Mozambique and Other Countries
2-5    Guidelines for the Development of the Faculty of Engineering
2-6    Education Unit Costs
2-7    National Education Operational Budget (1984)
3-1    Deficit of Classrooms in the City of Maputo Area
3-2    Neighborhoods in the City of Maputo where Schools will be
Constructed or Repaired
3-3    School Building Construction Cos;.s
3-4    Training Plan for School Principals and Managers
3-5    School of Engineering Equipment List
3-6    List of Accommodation Units for Electronic Laboratories and
Workshops
3-7    Terms of Reference for Studies on Mother-Tongue Languages,
Financing and Management
3-8    Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
3-9    PROFORMA List of Staff and Salaries
3-10   PROFORMA Costs of Furniture, Equipment, Materials, and Vehicles
3-11   City of Maputo School Construction Office:  Costs of Equipment,
Vehicles, Salaries, and Operational Costs
3-12   Detailed Project Costs
3-13   PROFORMA within the Government Structure
3-14   PROFORMA Structure
3-15   List of Mer;)ers of the Project Coordinating Committee
3-16   Terms of Reference for Experts
3-17   Experts and U.N. Volunteers
3-18   Fellowships and Study Trips
3-19   Project Implementation Schedule
MaB
IBRD No. 20704



MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                     The People's Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiary:                  Ministry of Education
IDA Credit Amount:            SDR11.7 million (US$15.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description
The project has been designed within the context of Mozambique's Economic
Rehabilitation Program. It supports activities that are feasible under
present economic and internal security constraints and that will have long-
range impact on the education sector. The project's objectives are
threefold. First, it will contribute to increasing literacy and numeracy
among primary school-age children. Second, it will strengthen the education
and training system in order to fill critical manpower gaps. Third, it will
asrengthen educational financial planning and project implementation
capacity. Specifically, it will:
1.   Improve the quality and elficiency of primary education in the
City of Maputo through:
(a) renovating and enlarginS primary school facilities to reduce
overcrowding and improve the learning environment for pupils
currently being taught in make-shift accommodations;
training for school managers and principals;
(b) training for school managers and principals; and
(c) providing pupils with essential school supplies.
2.   Strengthen the quality and relevance of training for:
(a) accountants, office managers and customs officials at the
Commercial Institute of Maputo by developing commercial
curricula and examinations and reducing the current shortage
of textbooks and reference materials, and for
(b) engineers and economists at the University Eduardo Mondlane
by providing instructional materials and equipment. At the
Faculty of Economics, assistance will be provided to reorient
and update the curriculum and to support fellowships.
3.   _umqrove education sector financial management and planning by
supporting:



- il -
(a) training in financial planning and management for about 50
high-level officials from HINED nd provincial educational
directorate.;
(b)  use of a manpower planning model to forecast and analyze
labor and manpower requirements and to illustrate future
education and manpower possibilities;
(c) the preparation of studies to support development of a long-
term strategy including (i) the financing of the education
system; (ii) mother-tongue languages; (iii) education sector
management; and (iv) the preparation of future investment
projects;
(d) establishing and operating a Project Management Unit in MINED
(PROFORMA) and by strengthening the School Construction
Office in the City of Maputo.
Recurrent cost implications will be limited to school maintenance.
There will be no increase in the number of classes or teachers at the
primary level, and no additional personnel will be required at other
institutions.
Project Benefits and Risks:
The project will strengthen Mozambique's educational system to make it
more responsive to the country's urgent needs for skilled manpower and
effective human resource development. Higher quality primary education
will help pupils and the nation develop a stronger foundation for
sustainable long-term growth. Upgruded training in commercial fields,
engineering, and economics will help alleviate shortages and enhance
quality in key areas essential for economic planning, industrial
development, and construction activities and will compensate for the
loss of expatriate university-level professionals. Development of a
long-term education sector strategy and improvement of MINED's
financial management and planning capability will permit more efficient
use of education sector resources. Finally, the project will help to
support ongoing efforts to build education project management skills
within MINED.
Rists are twofold: First, Mozambique's experience in managing
education projects is still quite limited, there are few trained
managers in the sector and there is very little experience in
international bidding processes, project monitoring, in keeping
accounts or performing audits. This risk is being addressed through
the creation of PROFORMA, the Project Management Unit within MINED,
which wili be supported through intensive staff training and the
provision of technical assistance. Second, the ongoing security
situation presents special difficulties. This risk has been talen into
account by targeting project activities predominantly in Maputo, which
is a secure area. In light of these design features, the risks would
be minimized and the proposed project would constitute a suitablo basis
for initial investment in educational sector improvement in Mozambique.
AF6PH
April 1988



- iii -
Summarv of Proiect Cost Egttmates
(in USS'000)
% Total
Base
Local     Foreign     Total      Cost
1.  Improving Primary Education              2,556.9    5,559.4    8,116.3      55
2.  Strengthening Post-Secondary Education:  377.2    3,239.3    3,616.5        24
Manpower Training Improvements -
Commercial Institute of Maputo           83.3      763.6       846.9      6
Faculty of Economics                     57,8      725.6       783.4      5
Faculty of Engineering                  236.1    1,750.1    1,986.3      13
3.  Sector Plazning and Management             719.3    2,307.7    3,027.0      21
Total base costs                             3,653.4   11,106.4   14,759.8    100
Physical contingencies                         406.5    1,331.3    1,737.8      12
Price contingencies                            334.9    1,020.8    1,355.7       9
Total Project Costs                          4,394.8   13,458.5   17,853.3    121
FINANCING PLAN: (in USS '000)
IDA                                          2,396.8   13,458.5   15,855.3      89
Government                                   1.998 0        0.0    1.998.0      11
Total                        4,394.8   13,458.5   17,853.3    100
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS:
IDA Fiscal Year
1989    1990    1991     1992    1993    1994
Amount Disbursed               1.6     1.6     3.0      3.5      3.5     2.7
Cumulative Amount              1.6     3.2     6.2      9.7    13.2    15.9
Percentage of Total             10      20      39       61       83     100
Economic Rate
of Return:             Not applic-able



MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government has requested IDA assistance in financing a project
to aid development of the education sector by improving the quality of
primary education, upgrading the training of accountants, office managers,
and university-level engineers and economists, and strengthening sector
planning and management. Total project costs are estimated at US$17.9
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $13.5 million. The
Government would contribute US$2.0 million, and the remaining US$15.9 million
would be financed by an IDA Credit.
1.2      Between 1980 and 1986 Mozambique suffered a severe economic crisis,
compounded by the continuing burden of unrelenting, widespread warfare. GDP
dropped by 35Z in real terms, and state expenditure plummeted by about 60%.
During 1987 the Government initiated the Economic Rehabilitation Program
(ERP) designed to begin the process of stabilization and structural reform.
Its objectives are to: (a) increase production and improve consumption and
income for the population, especially in rural areas; (b) reduce crucial
domestic financial imbalances and strengthen the country's external payments
position; and (c) establish the conditions for more rapid and more efficient
economic growth in the medium and longer term. So far the program has been
successful and the economic decline appears to have been reversed. After
devaluing the currency by about 1000%, reducing government expenditure, and
increasing privatization of production and distribution systems, the
Government can point to an increase in agricultural production, construction,
and service activities. A growth rate of between 2X and 42 ia projected for
1988.
1.3      The education project will support the activities of the ERP and
assist the Government in upgrading its human resources and in reducing
manpower shortages. In the context of multiple requirements for sector
improvement, and in line with the need to streamline educational expenditures
the project has been designed to respond to sectoral priorities that require
only limited increases in recurrent costs. As of 1990 increases will be
needed for maintenance of primary schools, but no institutions will be
expanded, and there will be minimal needs for additional personnel.
1.4      The project also takes into account the constraints imposed by the
existing security problems. While the project's activities concentrate on
priorities considered to be basic for long-term educational development, they
represent selective choices that are feasible under present circumstances.
New construction will be undertaken only in the City of Maputo, which is a
secure area.
1.5      Documents contained in the project file are listed in Annex 1-1.
The basic data sheet is in Annex 1-2. Comparativo education indicators are
in Annex 1-3. An organigram showing the structure of the Ministry of Education
is found in Annex 1-4.



- 2 -
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Sectoral Context
2.1      Background.  Public education in Mozambique prior to Indepondence
had been designed principally for the advancement of white Portuguese
settlers, while a separate, segregated system was administered by the
missions to serve the African population. Only the children of those few
Africans who had managed to struggle up to lassimilado" (assimilated) status
had access to the higher quality public education system. Host African
students were prevented from continuing their studies due to the
inaccessibility of schools to many villages, the incompleteness of the
primary cycle in the mission schools, and the legal age limitations for
entrance into secondary schools. In 1975 it is estimated that only about
302 oZ primary school-age children were enrolled in school, most of whom
were either white or Asian. In the same year less than 102 of the adult
population was literate.
2.2      Following Independence in 1975 the Government nationalized
education, suspended all colonial textbooks and curricula, and asserted the
right to basic education for all Mozambicans in the new national
constitution. Since then major efforts have been made to increase access to
education, despite the departure of the majority of.-axpatriate teachers, an
ongoing war, and severe fiscal constraints. A major accomplishment has been
the production and distribution of textbooks for all primary school
children. With assistance from SIDA and NORAD the Government has produced
and provided textbooks for one grade each year, beginning in 1983 with grade
one. In 1987, accordingly, textbooks were provided for pupils in grades one
to five.
2.3      Another major accomplishment has been the increase in enrollments.
Between 1975 and 1986 primary enrollments more than tripled, growing from
350,000 to 1.2 million, and secondary enrollments more than quintupled,
increasing from 26,000 to 136,000. During this same period over 1.5 million
adults were enrolled at all levels of the education system in specially-
designed courses, producing an increase in the literacy rate to an estimated
382. The effects of the high priority given to education are apparent in
the 1980 census data, which show literacy rates for the 15-24 year age
cohert reaching 40-50S, as opposed to less than 82 for the over-60
population. Annex 2-1 shows enrollment data, and Annex 2-2 displays chief
indicators of the educational system between 1975 and 1984.
2.4      Although this progress has been impressive, the education sector
continues to be plagued by serious problems. Net enrollment is only 472
(i.e., only 472 of schobl-age children are attending school), and has slowed
in recent years. The system continues to be very wide at the bottom, with
about 500,000 children in first grade, and narrow at the top, with only
1,000 students in the 10th grade and about 300 entering university each
year. Moreover, at the primary level enrollment expansion has been achieved
at the expense of quality and efficiency. In particular, learning is
hindered by large class size (60 students per classroom on average), the
short number of classroom hours caused by the imposition of a triple-shift
system, the use of Portuguese as the only language of instruction (about 1S
of Mozambican children learn Portuguese in the home), as well as poor



nutritiob. At the secondary level, while enrollments have grown
dramaticll17, the gross enrollment ratio remains at only 61, cowmared with
an average of 202 for all sub-Saharan A'rican countries. Moreover, only
modest gains have been achieved in technical education, and university
enrollments tave not yet recovered to pre-Independence levels. As a result
there is an acute shortage of professionals, technicians, and skilled and
semi-skilled workers. Over 601 of the oopulation is illiterate, 221 have
leos than two years of schooling, 61 have tour years of schooling, and the
more highly educated few -- those with secondary level education --
constitute less than 2%. These problems ar- compounded by weak managerial
structures at the provincial and local levels, a cumbersome central
administrative svatem, and serious financial constraints. All of these
issues combine to hinder effective implementation of national plans and
policies.
2.5      Structure.  In March 1983 the Government issued a comprehensive
education law that established a new National Education System (NES). It
%mbodied major structural changes by extending the primary cycle from four
.o seven years (comprised of grade levels 1-5 and 6-7) and reducing the
;econdary cycle by two years. Thus the combined primary and secondary cycle
under the new system has been increased from 11 to 12 years. The new
system, like the old, includes vocational education at technical secondary
schools and provides adult education at primary and secondary levels.
University education is provided at the University Eduardo Mondlane in
courses that range in duration between three and five years. Annex 2-3
provides a comparison of the old and new structures. The law also requires
that all seven year-olds register for school, requires that all who start
primary school be given an opportunity to complete at least five years,
permits reentry of vocational and technical education students into the
general education stream, and increases the leagth of teacher training
courses. If fully implemented, these provisions would require vastly
expanded facilities and large numbers of better-trained teachers.
2.6      Although official comitment to the reform is strong, serious
financial constraints have hindered implementation. Recently, in the
context of the Economic Rehabilitation Program the Government has begun to
take a new look at the educational system in order to develop a better
understanding of educational system financial requirements as a foundation
for bolstering the efficiency and management of the system. In addition to
keeping schools open whenever possible and providing essential inputs (e.g.,
teachers and books), the Government is initiating mid- and long-term
planning efforts. It is expected that this will eventually lead to revision
of existing policies, in accordance with pragmatic considerations such as
financing possibilities and capacity to implement change in rural areas.
2.7      Education Finance. The bulk of education expenditure in Mozambique
is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Education. Between 1980 and 1986
average recurrent 4xpenditures of MINED accounted for approximately 17Z of
the country's recurrent budget and about 21 of its investment budget.
Average public expenditure during this period represented 4% of GDP. These
ratios are below the average for sub-Saharan Africa. Mozambique spends 11%
of its resources on education, while the average for all sub-Saharan African
countries is 161. Nevertheless, in light of the fact that the security
situation is draining increasing shares of the country's recurrent budget to
defense and security (44X in 1984), these ratios reflect the Govornment's



-4-
commitment to providing education. Annex 2-4 compares public educational
expenditure in Mozambique with that in other countries in the region.
2.8      The education system draws on several other sources of finance.
Approximately 6X of educational expenditures are obtained from registration
and boarding fees charged to general and technical secondary students, and
which are collected in the form of fiscal stamps. Ptimary students are
exempt from these fees. Mozambican university students pay only a modest
registration fee, but foreign students are charged a substantially higher
fee. Students' school supplies, including books, are financed by the
parents.
2 9      Some limited extra-budgetary resources for education come from
c-ntributions made by enterprises directly to technical schools and the
University, and from services provided by some university departments (such
as engineering, computer science or veterinary medicine). More important
budgetary contributions are provided through production programs carried out
by technical establishments. Other in-kind contributions to education
include the literacy and technical training programs provided within
enterprises, and some limited school construction schemes carried out by
rural communities.
2.10     With respect to external assistance to the education sector, it is
estimated that in 1983 bilateral and multilateral donors provided US$6.2
million, which represented 9.42 of total foreign aid. This amount increased
in 1984 to US$12.4 million, which included US$5 million from the World Food
Program in food aid to primary schools in war-torn areas. Bilateral aid for
the provision of instructional materials comes from Norway and Canada (in
the form of paper); Finland (textbook printing); Holland (equipment for
hostels, geometry instruments, and basic school materials); Sweden
(publishing and printing); Italy and GDR (laboratories); and the Federal
Republic of Germany (library books). A number of bilateral donors --
including Sweden, Denmark, the Soviet Union, Switzerland, the Federal
Republic of Germany, and Holland -- contribute to infrastructure development
such as the construction and equipping of technical schools, teacher
training institutes, primary schools, and adult education training centers.
Donors also contribute to the training of personnel, either through
technical assistance (GDR, Sweden, UK, USSR), scholarships (GDR, UK, USA,
USSR), or provision of schools abroad (Cuba, GDR). In addition, Italy,
Sweden, UNICEF and the World Lutheran Federation support experimental
projects and personnel development at various levels of the system, and
Holland and the USSR provide personnel support at the University. A number
of non-governmental organizations are also involved in educational projects
in Mozambique.
2.11     Special attention is being given by donors to training of teachers.
The AfDB is preparing a US$54 million project (base cost) to finance in-
service training of primary school teachers. In addition, UNDP has a long-
term commitment to MINED staff training. Also, SETEP is receiving
assistance from Sweden and Denmark to train technical education teachers.



5
B.   Key Sectoral Issues
2.12     Despite strong official comitment to providing *ducation, sector
development has been hindered by the poor quality of the system inherited at
Independence, economic decline, and social upheaval caused by the armed
insurrection. In the context of vast needs for assistance to the education
and training sector, the demands for economic development point to five
issues that require priority attention.
1.    Poor Quality and Low Efficiency of Primary Education
2.13     Improvement of primary education is given high priority at the
national level since it is seen as a basic right for all Mozambicans as well
as the foundation for all manpower training. At present, however, the
quality and efficiency of education provided at the first level is very low.
It is clear that children are not learning very much: the average student
will attain 2.8 years of education, and in 1985 it took 14.6 years to
produce one graduate. In addition, there is little time for students to
learn. Only 53Z of the country's primary schools offer a complete four-year
cycle, which is an extremely short time in which to secure basic numeracy
and literacy skills under any circumstances. This situation is compounded
by the fact that, in response to rapid enrollment expansion, primary
edtwation is being provided on a double-, and often triple-, shift system,
which means that the number of hours of instruction and contact with
teachers is shortened.
2.14     Moreover, rapid urbanization combined with enrollment expansion at
the primary level have far outpaced the construction of classrooms, traini-g
of teachers, and provision of essential instructional materials. As a
result of this expansion -- and the financial strain that it implies -- many
schools hold classes in the open air, only 8Z of teachers have had more than
six years of schooling and only half have received pedagogical training, and
notebooks, paper and pencils are in short supply. Taken together, these
circumstances seriously threaten the quality of learning at the primary
level, and ultimately the production of a literate and numerate population
necessary for long-term development progress.
2.15     Low quality and efficiency are also likely to be exacerbated by the
use of Portuguese as the language of instruction beginning in first grade,
since the vast majority of Mozambicans are not Portuguese speakers. In 1980
Portuguese was the mother-tongue of only one percent of the population, was
spoken by 242, and was not spoken by 752. Although no language studies have
been conducted in Mozambique, research in other countries suggests that
without a strong foundation in a first language, it is more difficult for
children to acquire verbal fluency and literacy in a second language -- in
this case Portuguese. It is also known that academic skills learned in
school transfer readily from one l&nguage to the other, so that skills
taught in the first language in transitional programs do not have to be re-
learned in the second language. Thus, if instruction is ultimately to be
given in Portuguese, the most effective policy educationally would be to
initiate instruction using :he mother language as medium, followed by a
gradual transition to the national language as medium.



-6-
2.    Insufficient Production of Middle-Level Technicians
2.16     The system of post-primary technicallvocational training (which
includes commercial, agricultural, and industrial streams) that existed at
Independence was extremely weak. It consisted of 28 schools with very few
teachers and little in the way of instructional materials, equipment or
proper installations. In recent years progress has been achieved regarding
curriculum development, staffing, and equipping of these schools, and
enrollments have increased from approximately 7,000 in 1973 to over 10,000
today. Industrial training is being assisted primarily by the Soviet Union,
Sweden, and Denmrk.
2.17     Nonetheless, severe shortages persist in commercial skill areas
such as accountancy, secretarial, customs, and computer programming. These
shortages stem from a range of problems in the technical/vocational
education system, including the low level of qualification of entrants;
shortages of technical subject teachers; insufficient supply of books,
tools, raw materials and spare parts; and the sub-standard condition of many
buildings. In addition, curricula are outdated: for example, accountancy
training relies on textbooks produced in the 1960s, and much of the
secretarial training does not include word processing. Moreover, there is a
need to strengthen the certification procedure for the accountancy
profession in Mosambique, although the Minister of Finance has recently
established a National Board of Accountancy to be responsible for the
licensing of accountants. Failure to increase the number of well-trained
graduates in accountancy and other commercial fields seriously limits
development of the country's administrative and management activities.
3.    Shortage of University-Level Graduates
2.18     Since Independence economic development has also been hampered by
the severe shortage of university-level professionals. Although detailed
manpower studies have not been carri i out, there is particular concern in
Government over the lack of trained engineers and economists. Prior to
Independence positions in these critical areas had been filled entirely by
Portuguese settlers; expatriates ran the nation's commercial and industrial
sectors. While there were 700 engineers working in Mozambique before
Independence, currently there are 450, only one-third of whom are nationals.
Similarly, there are fewer than 100 econemistP in the country at present.
2.19     At the University's Faculty of Engineering a major problem has been
tie low level of qualification of entering students.  Efforts have been made
to maintain high academic standards through use of selective admissions
standards and provision of remedial courses to entering students whose
secondary education is weak. Efforts are also being made to upgrade the
engineering faculty; four professors have recently returned from post-
graduate studies abroad while eight others are continuing their post-
graduate training at the Master of Science and Ph.D. level. Nonetheless,
the Faculty is hindered in its attempt to provide high quality engineering
education owing to a severe lack of necessary laboratory facilities and
essential equipment. This problem is particularly acute in light of the
fact that many of the Mozambican students who enter the engineering program
come from rural areas or small towns where their contact with a
technological environment is very limited. Guidelines for the development
of the Faculty of Engineering are included in Annex 2-5.



2.20     At the University's Faculty of Economics both curriculum and staff
development require improvement. In 1977, in response to pressure to
increase the number of graduates, the Faculty shortened its five-year
program, which led to the 'Licenciatura' degree, to a thr-e-year cycle
leading to a "Bachalirato" degree. This shorted program, howvver, proved to
be inadequate and has recently been restored to five years. While the
longer program is considered appropriate, the curriculum does not yet meet
elther academic standards or labor market needs and is currently being
revised. There is a need to revise the sequencing of macro-economic courses
and to introduce courses in price theory and other micro-economic topics not
covered at present.   Furthermore, special additional training must be
provided to graduates of the abandoned three-year program, most of whom hold
high-level government positions and are responsible, in part, for
implementation of the ERP.
4.    Need to StrenRthen Educational Planning and Financial
HanaRement
2.21     If enrollment rates are to be raised and quality improved at all
levels of the educational system, at the same time that the country faces
economic decline and continuing armed insurrection, it is essential that
education sector resources be used efficiently. While a range of system
inputs and policy changes will be necessary to improve education in
Mosambique, these alone will not be enough. Merely adding classrooms or
changing the structure of the system, for example, will not have the
intended effect unless such measures are linked to improved sector planning
and financial management. Currently sector planning is impedod by a shortage
of staff trained to collect and analyze relevant data. In addition, sector
management is hindered by a budgetary system that provides for budget
submissions to be prepared in every province, with different budgeting
criteria and no requirement for consistency. The effect of this practice is
disorganization and an inability to implement national policies and use
limited resources wiaely.
2.22     There is also a need to reorient the education system in line with
present manpower needs. Traditional technical and agricultural schools are
not adequate vehicles for training in the short term the number of
technicians and mid-level managers needed at present. At the same time
there are other areas for which the supply of graduates is larger than
required. In the case of production of teachers, not only are there too many
graduates, but there is no training provided to teachers already in service.
Although Government officials recognize the problem, they lack adequate data
on manpower requirement3 and flows of students througi, the training system.
Due to this lack of data, and the lack of experience to analyze it, no
attempt has yet been made to put into a coherent framework the relationship
between total supply of the education system and manpower requirements.
5.    High Unit Costs
2.23     Although distortions in the pricing systes and in official exchange
rates limit the usefulness of international comparisons, available data show
that unit costs at all levels of education are high in comparison with sub-
Saharan regional averages. Unit costs of education in Mozambique as a



-8-
percentage of GNP per capita in 1984 were as follows: primary schooling,
0.28 (compared with 0.24 in the r-gion overall); secondary grades 5 to 9,
0.96 and secondary grades 10 and 11, 3.64 (compared to 0.98 for all
secondary schooling in the region); technical, 4.5; teacher training, 6.0:
and university education, 32.4 (in comparison with the regional average of
8.6). Annex 2-6 displays unit costs at all levels of the educational
system.
2.24     High unit costs are due to three factors.  First, administrative
costs are very high; about 26Z of the education budget is allocated for
administration, of which 121 is for central administration, 10% for
provincial administration, and 41 for management of post-primary student
hostels.  Second, there is a high degree of subsidization of secondary
boarding schools. And third, at the UEM there is a large number of non-
teaching staff combined with low student-teacher ratios and very low tuition
fees. Annex 2-7 shows Mozambique's 1984 operational budget for national
education.
2.25     The need to reduce unit costs is particularly critical in light of
the country's difficult financial situation. In line with ERP requirements
to cut the current accounts deficit from 30Z at present to zero by 1991, the
Government will need to set specific growth targets for educational
expenditures and aim at reducing unit costs and improving sector efficiency.
Moreover, education expenditures must be protected to achieve the crucial
goals of raising literacy levels and increasing the supply of much-needed
graduates from technical schools and university. Within this framework
critical decisions to be taken in the coming years include: (a) whether to
increase cost recovery at the University, and how to proceed in this regard;
(b) whether to expand technical/vocational education as opposed to general
secondary education, which is less expensive; and (c) whether to continue to
charge primary school children for books. Studies are being undertaken by
the Ministry's Planning Unit to address these issues.
C. The Government's Strategy
2.26     With enactment of the 1983 education law the Government set out the
priority objectives for educational development in Mozambique, emphasizing
in particular universal access to formal education for all children and
adults. However, the strategy to achieve this objective was not feasible in
light of the shortages of resources, security-related restrictions, and
population increases (including high migration to urban areas). Due to
these constraints the objectives set out in the 1983 law have not been fully
met, and decisions on expansion of the educational system are made year by
year, depending on the availability of resources and security limitations.
Achievements have fallen far short of expectations. Only 501 of primary
schools have managed to offer five years of education, the number of adults
attending literacy courses has been decreasing sharply in recent years, and
there has been only limited expansion of secondary and university
facilities. In 1987 a 201 reduction in expenditures was introduced. The
Ministry was able to meet its budget target, in part, by sacrificing planned
enrollment increases.



2.27     The lack of a long-term strategy is particularly obvious in the
development of secondary education, since data on which to base decisions on
necessary expansion is lacking at that level. SETEP has directed its
offorts exclusively at maintaining the existing system, and has not been
able to gather and analyze data on labor market requirements. Similarly, at
the University attention has been given to reaching pre-Independence
enrollment levels at the expense of long-term planning. Recently, however,
an initial study of the situation at UEM was undertaken by the Gulbenkian
Foundation; findings are expected by mid-1988.
2.28     Improved education is a basic requirement for sustained economic
development in Mozambique. The Planning Unit of MINED recognizes that a
strategy of expanding educational access in the current environment is
subject to considerable uncertainty. However, it also believes that it
needs to develop a more effective educational strategy, which will take into
account growing demand for urban educational services, greater cost
effectiveness of expenditures, and, in the longer run, increased capacity of
the system. A policy/research group is being established within the
Ministry to develop a long term strategy for the sector.
2.29     Development of a long-term strategy for the sector began in 1988
with definition of the work program and initiation of key studies on
management and financing. Data to be collected during 1989 will be ready
for analysis in 1990. A draft policy paper, to be discussed internally as
well as with donors, will be ready in 1990-1991. While this strategy is
being developed, the Government will have three short-term objectives: to
keep the education system running in the face of serious security
constraints; to maintain supplies such as textbooks, pencils, notebooks; and
to meet 4mmediate manpower needs (e.g., training of engineers and
economists). This approach seems to be realistic under present economic and
political circumstances.
D. The Bank Group's Role
2.30     The Bank will assist Mozambique in developing its long-term
education sector strategy, in line with the objectives of the ERP, and
support the Government in keeping essential services going, improving the
quality and efficiency of its operations, and meeting manpower requirements.
It is recognized that the overall low average level of cd_..cational
attainment at Independence, exacerbated by the mass exodus of trained and
experienced expatriate residents, have created severe manpower shortages
that today represent a critical constraint on economic growth in Mozambique.
Efforts to strengthen the country's education and training sector -- and
thereby facilitate the development of essential manpower -- will set the
stage for sustained economic development.
2.31     It is expected that under the project the Government will develop
the capacity to generate data on manpower requirements, internal and
external efficiency, and sector financial needs. With this foundation the
Government will be better able to construct a strategy for short as well as
long term development of the educational system, reallocate resources in
line with its priority objectives, and achieve its central goals in spite of
a constrained financial environment.
2.32     Bank assistance will be implemented through the present operation,
sector work to be undertaken in IDA's FY 1989, and a second operation to be
appraised in FY 1990.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1      The project was identified by a Bank mission that visited Maputo
shortly after Mozambique became an IDA member.  It was intended as a first
IDA operation that would selectively respond to immediate needs, while
assisting in developing a better knowledge of system requirements and a
longer-term strategy for the education system. Preparation was carried out
by the Government with UNESCO assistance. The project's major objectives
are threefold. First, it aims to increase literacy and numeracy among
primary school-age children in the City of Maputo. Second, it is intended
to fill critical manpower gaps. Third, it would strengthen educational
management and planning. These objectives would be achieved through: (1)
raising the quality and efficiency of primary education by (a) renovating
and enlarging facilities, (b) training school managers and principals, and
(c) providing children with essential school supplies; (2) strengthening the
quality and relevance of training for accountants, office managers,
bookkeepers, customs officials, economists and engineers through (a)
provision of educational materials and equipment, (b) curricula development,
and (c) support of fellowships; and (3) improving education sector planning
and financial manaftement, through technical assistance, preparation of
studies and in-country training.
1.   Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Primary Education in
the City of Maputo
a.   ExpandinR and Improving Primary School Facilities.
3.2      The project would support the construction, furnishing, and
rehabilitation of primary schools (grades 1 through 5) in the most
educationally under-equipped areas of Maputo. Specifically it will:
(a) construct, equip, and furnish 14 new schools; (b) rehabilitate, expand,
equip, and furnish 11 existing school3; (c) refurbish, equip, and furnish
90 existing schools; and (d) complete construction of 12 schools already
under construction with Government resources. Annex 3-1 showt the school
construction program for the City of Maputo, indicating the existing deficit
of classrooms.
3.3      The shortage of primary school classrooms is due both to the
relatively successful introduction of compulsory primary education begun in
1983 and to the deterioration of existing space. The response to this
shortage in urban areas has been institution of a triple-shift system of
instruction. Every classroom is used three times daily and most teachers
teach two shifts. By increasing the number of classrooms (but not the
number of pupils or the number of classes) the project will reduce
overutilization of existing space since each classroom will be used only
twice daily. It will also improve the learning environment for pupils who
are currently being taught in dilapidated, make-shift accommodation. In
1986 approximately 200 *teaching spaces' (in addition to about 800
classrooms) were in use In Maputo.  These included any sort of room,
abandoned workshop, roc_ed terrace, or simply the shade of either a tree or
an outside wall found in the neighborhood of an existing school. It is
estimated that about 400 new classrooms are needed (see Annex 3-1).



- 11 -
3.4      Each new classroom in designed to be used by 50 students.  Use will
be restricted to two shifts per day (Monday through Friday) so that the full
curriculum can be taught, instead of the truncated curriculum imposed by the
triple-shift system. The provision of 260 classrooms in 25 project schools
would house 520 classes, providing learning space for 26,000 pupils. Each
classroom will be equipped with 25 double benches, a teacher's desk and
chair, a chalk board, and a small open shelving space. In addition,
construction will include a teachers' room, administrative space, a storage
room, teachers' toilets and latrines, as well as the construction and
installation of water wells and septic tanks. The project will also provide
retroactive financing for the completion of 12 schools initiated by the
Government, which will accommodate 10,000 additional pupils in about 100
classrooms.
3.5      Construction would be concentrated in the City of Maputo because
conditions for implementation of such a program are relatively more secure
there than in the rest of the country. At present the distribution of
schools throughout the city is highly uneven; 15 of Maputo's approximately
92 neighborhoods ("bairros") have no school. New classrooms will be
constructed first in those neighborhoods where currently there is no school,
then in districts with overcrowded schools. AAnnex 3-2 lists neighborhoods
where schools will be constructed and repaired. Annex 3-3 shows school
building construction costs.
3.6      Additionally, the project will help to rehabilitate about 100
schools and establish a system of permanent maintenance for all schools in
the City of Maputo. While maintenance is important in the education sector
in general -- as in all other sectors -- it takes on particular importance
in the City of Maputo, where very little maintenance has been done in over
ten years. With respect to school maintenance countrywide, the project will
include a study to determine requirement, procedures, and costs. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will introduce in the
national budget for 1990 a school maintenance line item and allocate to it
funds sufficient to carry out annual maintenance of schools built, expanded,
rehabilitated, and refurbished under the project.
3.7      The credit would finance:  (a) civil works contracts for
construction of new and rehabilitated schools, and repairs for existing
classrooms; (b) force account for school renovation and maintenance;
(c) furniture for students, classrooms, and schools; and (d) architectural
services. The credit will retroactively finance work done by the Government
between October 1987 and July 1988 for the construction of 12 schools
(approximate cost is US$200,000).
b.   Trainina of School Managers and Principals
3.8      The project would upgrade the quality of school-level management in
the City of Maputo through training. First, those principals currently
working in shacks or other dilapidated spaces will be trained for their
future responsibilities as managers of large, modern schools. Training will
include such things as building maintenance, supervisory skills, and
textbook usage. In addition to the principal, every school in Maputo has
two teachers who assist with managerial tasks (e.g., school finances,
nutrition programs, and preparation of lesson plans). The project would



- 12 -
provide training for these teachers, known as school managers, in the area
of their particular responsibility. The program will be designed in
cooperation with UNDP's "Strengthening Educational Management and Leadership
Program," which is intended to strengthen management nationwide, and will be
carried out by the Instituto Superior Pedagogico (ISP).
3.9      The credit would finance:  (a) specialist services (12 man-months
international expert and 24 man-months local consultant) to prepare training
modules and provide training; (b) equipment and vehicles for training
institutions; (c) documents and bibliographic materials; (d) 8 one-month
study tours for training outside Mozambique (e.g., EDI courses); and (e) 30
one-week training courses for 50 participants each. Annex 3-4 presents a
plan for training of school principals and managers.
c.   Providing School Supplies
3 10    Although official policy requires that students purchase the
necessary instructional materials, including books, notebooks, and pencils,
it is becoming increasingly evident that under current economic conditions
many parents cannot afford to pay for these supplies. The project would
therefore distribute, on an experimental basis, for each one of 300
classrooms (260 project classrooms plus 40 additional classrooms) one basic
school kit that includes black and colored pencils, erasers, slates and
chalk, two notebooks per child, scissors, and rulers. The supplies of
pencils, chalk and notebooks would be provided once each year to these
300 classrooms during the life of the project. On a one-time basis the
project would also provide for each school a small library (50 titles), two
globes, five maps, and a metric set. All supplies provided by the project
will be considered to be school property.
2.   Strengtheninz the Quality and Relevance of Post-Secondary Training
3.11     The project would support Government efforts to meet essential
manpower requirements by strengthening the quality and relevance of post-
secondary training in three skills areas: commerce, engineering, and
economics.
a. Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM)
3.12     First, a range of inputs would upgrade the training of accountants,
office managers, bookkeepers, and customs officials at the ICM. The country
faces severe shortages in these areas, and ICM is the only commercial
training institution in Mozambique. Support for the commercial stream, as
opposed to the industrial and agricultural streams, would be particularly
useful since this is the only area that does not already receive some donor
assistance. One key area for support is the development of accountancy
curricula and examinations that would be of sufficiently high standard to be
internationally competitive. The project would also provide for curriculum
development in all other areas of commercial training provided at ICM.
Curriculum development efforts would be accompanied by the provision of
necessary reference materials and textbooks, microcomputers and software
packages, and furniture for the microcomputer room. Additionally, seminars



- 13 -
would be held in which curriculum developers would receive feedback from
consumers of the training courses (e.g., secretaries would be able to
provide feedback on the -quality and relevance of the proposed secretarial
curriculum), study tours would be provided for ICM staff to see how similar
commercial activities (such as office management or accounting) are carried
out elsewhere, and fellowships would help to upgrade ICM staff.
3.13     In addition to curriculum development, the project would support
management strengthening at ICM. This would be accomplished through
preparation of an administrative manual for ICM, provision of fellowships in
areas such as institutional administration, and training of Mozambican
teachers to facilitate the replacement of expatriate personnel. The project
would include study tours for ICM staff and would cover the cost of bringing
international experts to Mozambique for national meetings on selected topics
such as accountancy training. The Government has arranged for the
Commercial Institute of Lisbon to team up with ICM for future collaboration.
This collaboration would include the use of curricula, books, and people to
provide relevant training at ICM.
3 14     The credit would finance curriculum development through:  (a)
expert assistance (12 man-months) for development of accounting curriculum
and examinations, and (12 man-months) for general coammercial curriculum
development; (b) meaterials and textbooks; (c) microcomputers and software
packages; (d) furniture for the microcomputer room; (e) 10 one-week seminars
with 10'participants each and 12 months of study tours; and (f) 72 months of
fellowships.
3.15     It would also finance management strengthening through:  (f) expert
ssistance (12 man-months); (g) printing equipment; and (h) 12 months of
fellowships and 18 months of study tours. The Government will continue to
finance all local salaries for ICM staff.
b. Faculty of Engineering
3.16    Second, the component would support Improved training at the
Faculty of Engineering at the University Eduardo Mondlane. Currently nearly
all training being carried out in the initial courses is theoretical due to
the serious lack of equipment. No procurement has been done since the early
19709. The project would include assistance for four fully-equipped
electronics laboratories with eight places each for telecommunications,
analogic electronics, digital electronics, and automatic control. Physical
facilities for four mechanical workshops, each with eight working places,
would also be provided for locksmith, machine tools (lathes and milling),
prefabrication (welding, foundry, and blading), and auto-mechanics. Since
most students have no prior introduction to these specialty areas, rotation
through all four would give them an opportunity to learn the essentials of
each.
3.17     The pro4ect would also aim to support cost recovery initiatives at
the Faculty of Engineering through the sale of engineering services.
Although the staff are well-trained and the students of high quality, the
Faculty cannot provide these services without basic equipment such as
photocopiers and micro-computers. In addition, these initiatives, as well
as study visits by students to industrial plants and construction sites,



- 14 -
require transport. In a situation vhere public transportation is completely
unreliable, provision of vehicles is essential. A description of the cost
recovery activities being undertaken through the Production Unit at the
Faculty of Engineering is found in Annex 2-5.
3.18     The credit would finance, for both electronics laboratories and
mechanical workshops: (a) site development and civil works; (b) professional
fees; (c) furniture; and (d) equipment. It would also finance:
(e) computers, printing equipment required for cost recovery initiatives,
and audio-visual equipment for teaching and extension activities (courses
for industry, paid by industry); and (f) vehicles required for both the cost
recovery initiatives and a program of study visits. Annex 3-5 shows the
equipment list for the laboratories.  Annex 3-6 details the accommodation
units and architectural plans.
c. Faculty of Economics
3.19     This component would also provide assistance to strengthen the
curriculum and upgrade the academic qualifications of national teaching
staff at the University's Faculty of Economics. Such assistance is
particularly needed in light of recent problems brought on by implementation
of a shortened (three-year) economics training course in the late 1970s.
Owing to the concern that graduates of the three-year program were
insufficiently prepared for the labor market, the Faculty is now restoring a
five-year program to provide more extensive economics education. It
coasists of a general three-year core progrtm plus two specialized streams
of two years each, one focusing on management, the other on economics.
3.20     The Faculty of Economics receives ongoing assistance from the UNDP
and will rely on assistance from the World Bank to establish the program.
UNDP assistance, on the order of US$1 million, supports the general three-
year course and specialized management stream, while the World Bank will
finance improvements in the specialized economics stream (which receives no
other external assistance). UNDP support is already in place and includes
equipment, books, fellowships, and technical assistance in computer science
and quantitative methods for general courses.
3.21     The credit would finance:  (a) technical assistance for curriculum
development and revision of the examination system (12 man-months); (b)
specialized training seminars for faculty members (10 man-months); (c)
expert assistance for the development of modular programs (48 man-months) in
such subjects as monetary and fiscal policy, development economics, and
economic policy planning; (d) three doctoral fellowships (total 72 man-
months) for the most promising national teaching staff at the "Licenciatura"
level, who would take up responsibility for a teaching division upon their
return to Mozambique; (e) books for the library; and (f) 3 microcomputers
and software.
3.   Improving Education Sector Financial Management, Planning. and
Prolect Implementation
3.22     Efficient utilization of limited resources is essential for the
Government to improve and expand its educational system in the midst of
economic crisis and armed hostilities. Administrators and planners must be



- 15 -
trained for this purpose. Although the Government is already pursuing an
active training policy, often in cooperation with external donors, there is
a need to complement these efforts with additional management training
programs in finance and education planning.
3.23     In addition, studies are needed to assist Government in determining
long-term financial requirements for the sector, as well as a more efficient
organizational structure. Results of these studies are to be integrated
into a comprehensive long-term strategy for the education sector. Within
this context the project will finance training and studies, as described
below, and it will assist government in the preparation of a long-term
strategy for the sector.
3.24     First, this component would provide training in financial planning,
budgeting, and accounting for high-level officials from both the Ministry of
Education and provincial education directorates in order to coordinate and
strengthen the budgetary system. A Mozambican consultant will travel to
provincial offices in order to determine training needs and subsequently to
design the training program. The program would consist of preparation of
teaching materials in Portuguese, a range of courses and workshops, and
training of trainers.
3.25     Training materials will include basic information for budgeting
purposes (e.g., the unified teacher salary scales and all laws and
regulations on accounting procedures), plus special case studies to
demonstrate alternative mechanisms for costing inputs, prioritizing
expenditures, scheduling activities, and estimating contingencies. The
workshops will deal with specific topics such as teacher promotions and
related salary increases, analysis of unit costs, and expenditure
forecasting. These activities would allow the budgetary process to continue
to be handled in a decentralized way, but would institute uniform and
standard procedures across the country. It is expected that about half of
the initial &,iig of trainees ultimately would be able to provide training
on educational finance to heads of administration and planning at the
provincial level. In addition, fellowships would be provided for provincial
budget officers to visit each other as well as budget officers in other
countries to observe how budget offices are organized and how accounting is
performed.
3.26     The credit will finance:  (a) 8 man-months of consultant services
for budgeting and accounting; (b) 16 man-months of local consultant services
for preparation of budgeting guidelines and training of provincial budget
directors; (c) fellowships and study trips; (d) training courses for about
50 officials; (e) calculators; and (f) vehicles for the Planning Unit of
MINED.
3.27     Second, the component would strengthen manpower planning.  The
Ministry of Labor and the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Education, in
cooperation with the Ministry of Planning and ILO, will use a manpower and
education model to forecast and analyze labor and manpower requirements and
to illustrate future education and manpower possibilities. Specifically the
model would: (a) project manpower demands to meet specified sectoral
targets (e.g., manpower needs in the Beira corridor); (b) forecast flows
through the education system under a variety of policy options; and
(c) compare projected manpower demands and supplies under different



- 16 _
scenarios and assuming different pattorns of migration and employment
possibilities. Results would load to identification of problems regarding
the structure and efficiency of the education and training systems and to
recommendations on policies needed to improve efficiencies (participation,
repetition and drop-out rates, as well as eligibility criteria of different
programs).
3.28     The project would support expert assistance as well as a range of
inputs such as microcomputers, software packag*s, calculators, books and
documentation. Results of the manpower planning exercise will be presented
by March 31, 1991 (and will be discussed in a seminar with participation
from MINED, Ministry of Finance, and external donors) and will be used to
identify future investment projects in Mozambique.
3.29     The credit will finance:  (a) 12 man-months for expert services for
manpower planning; (b) microcomputers and software packages; and (c) books
and documentation.
3.30     Third, the component would also support the preparation of studies
including: (a) the financing of the educational system; (b) mother-tongue
languages; (c) education sector management; (d) school maintenance;
(e) four annual evaluations and one final evaluat ion of the project; and (f)
the preparation of future projects in the education sector. During
negotiations the. Government gave assurances that it would prepare and
furnish to IDA for its review and comment (a) progress reports on the
financial, language, management and manpower planning studies (not later
than March 31, 1989 and March 31, 1990) and (b) final results of the studies
(not later than March 31, 1991). Annex 3-7 shows terms of reference for the
financing, language, and management studies. Project monitoring and
evaluation indicators are listed in Annex 3-8.
3.31     Preparation of a long-term strategy for the education sector will
be the responsibility of the Vice Minister of Education and a group of
Mozambican researchers and policy-makers working with him. During
negotiations assurances were given by Government that it would prepare by
March 31, 1992 a strategy for financing and managing the development of the
education system. The strategy would incorporate findings of the financial,
managerial and language studies carried out under the project, as well as
results of the manpower planning exercise, and it would include: (a) a
statement on growth targets for the education system; (b) levels of
recurrent expenditures needed to increase of primary, secondary and
university education; (c) a statement of priority investments to be financed
between 1990-2000; and (d) a plan for strengthening the managerial structure
and efficient administration of education at national and provincial levels.
3.32     Fourth, the component will strengthen all institutions responsible
for project implementation. In particular it will strengthen the recently
established unit responsible for the preparation and implementation of
externally-financed projects.  This unit, called PROFORMA (Gabinete Tecnico
de Gestao de Projectos Educacionais) has so far been responsible for
conducting the feasibility studies for the AfDB teacher training project and
for assisting in the preparation of this World Bank project. In the future
PROFORMA should take responsibility for all procurement, accounting, and
reporting activities for which the Ministry of Education obtains external
financing. In addition, the component will strengthen other units



- 17 -
responsible for implementation of their respective components, including:
ICM, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Economics, and the Planning
Unit of MINED.
3.33     In line with the Government's general approach toward
decentralization, the DECC0 will be responsible for implementing school
repairs and school maintenance activities. For these activities the project
will strengthen the DECCM.
3.34     The credit would finance strengthening of PT`-IRMA throught
(a) furniture, equipment, materials, and vehicles; kw, expert architect
services (8 man-months); (c) expert accountant services (8 man-months); (d)
travel to international meetings and courses (4); and (e) salaries.
Annex 3-9 includes a list of staff and salaries. Annex 3-10 shows the costs
of furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles. The credit would finance
strengthening of the DECCM through: (f) equipment, vehicles, and vehicle
maintenance; and (g) salaries.  Annex 3-11 lists the costs of equipment,
vehicles, salaries, and operating activities associated with DECCM.
B. Proiect Costs and FinancinR Plan
3.35     Cost and Financin2 Plan.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$17.9 million equivalent, of which US$13.5, or 75Z, are
foreign exchange costs, and taxes levied on construction contracts amount to
approximately US$1.0 million. The Government does not levy import duties on
internationally-financed goods for the education sector. Consequently, all
capital items included in project costs are net of taxes. Detailed project
costs are found in Annex 3-12.
3.36     The project would be financed by the proposed IDA credit of US$15.9
million, and by the Government's contribution of US$2.0 million. IDA Vould
finance the project's foreign exchange costs as well as 70% of the local
coats for construction, operating expenses and local salaries. The
Government's contribution will finance 30% of local costs including local
salaries and operating expenses, in addition to taxes.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ '000)
IDA     Government    Total
Foreign            13.5        0.0         13.5
Local               2.4         1.0         3.4
Taxes                _          1.0         1.0
Total              15.9         2.0        17.9



_ 18 -
Sumnary Accounts Cost Summary
(in US$ '000)
Local      For.izn     Total
I.   INVtSTMCNT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                          2,484.8     5,154.2    7,6;9.0
Construction                         1,680.5     3,921.3    5,601.8
Site Development                       367.5       857.5    1,225.0
Architectural Foes                     108.5        27.1       135.6
Completion of Government-
Financed Schools                     328.3       328.3      656.6
B. FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS       412.3     2,846.6    3,258.9
Furniture                              235.8       157.2      393.0
Equipment                               89.6     1,701.8    1,791.4
Materials & Textbooks                   86.9       782.6       869.5
Vehicle Procurement                      --        205.0       205.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, STUDIES,
AUDITS, AND TRAINING                 445.5     2,254.5    2,700.0
Experts                                 58.7     1,116.3    1,175.0
United Nations Volunteers               36.0       144.0       180.0
Fellowships                             18.3       347.7      366.0
Study Trips                             10.5       198.5      209.0
Training Courses                        42.0        28.0        70.0
Studies                                280.0       420.0      700.0
D. INCREMENTAL SALARIES                    18.1         4.5        22.6
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY             --        640.0      640.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                         141.6        --         141.6
B. BUILDING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE    107.9        161.8       269.7
C. OPERATING EXPENSES                      43.2        64.8       108.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         3,653.4    11,106.4   14,759.8
Physical Contingencies                    406.5     1,331.3    1,737.8
Price Contingencies                       334.9     1,020.8    1,355.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          4,394.8    13,458.5   17,853.3



_ 19 -
3.37     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Except for local salaries, all project
costs shown in Annex 3-11 were estimated in US$ terms and converted to
meticais using the official exchange rate prevailing at the tim of
negotiations: US$1 - 450 meticais. Foreign exchange costs were estimated
at: 1002 for vehicles; 95Z for equipment, materials, fellowships, study
trips and experts; 80X for U.N. Volunteers; 702 for construction and site
development; 602 for studies, building operation and maintenance, and
school maintenance and operating costs; 50  for Government-financed
classrooms; 402 for training courses and furniture; and 20X for salaries
and architectural fees. Physical contingencies of US$1.7 million are
estimated at 202 of base costs for furniture, equipment, and materials, and
102 of base costs for all other categories except for PPF activities.
Price contintencies of US$1.4 million represent about 82 of base cost plus
physical contingencies and were estimated for all costs on the basis of
annual inflation rates shown below, which reflect IDA's most recent
guidelines for foreign price increases. Because all costs were estimated
in dollars, no distinction is made between local and foreign costs*
Price Contingencies Estimates
(percentages)
Costs        1988       1989      1990-1993
Foreign       5.6        5.4          1
Local         5.6        5.4          1
3.38     Unit Costs.  The baseline school construction costs are based on
space standards developed by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of
Construction and Works. They amoutit on average to US$197 per m2 (including
circulation and walls). The base cost of an isolated classroom is
US$159600. Site development costs have been estimated at US$40,000 per
school and they include water well, septic tank, fence and exterior paths.
Rehabilitation of existing classrooms is estimated to average US$5,500 per
classroom (352 of the cost of a new classroom). Construction costs for the
Faculty of Engineering are estimated at US$280/m2 for electronic
laboratories and at US$175/m2 for workshops. According with their
requirements, site development and professional fees are estimated at 42 of
construction costs for both units. Professional fees for architectural
work are estimated as follows:
Topographical plans              US$500 per site
Designs of school prototypes    10% of construction costs per
prototype
Designs for specific schools    22 of construction costs
3.39     Furniture per student place is estimated to cost US$15.
Additionally classroom furniture, including blackboard and book shelf is
estimated to cost US$150 and furniture for school administration areas is
estimated to cost US$300 per school. Expert services are estimated at
US$7,500 per month. Salary suRplements for PROFORMA staff were included in
total project cost to be able to hire and retain competent staff. However,
since the civil service salary structure is being reviewed by Government



- 20 -
under the ERP, these supplements will only be needed for a short time (two
or three years). The salary structure and supplements are shown in
Annex 3-9.
3.40     Recurrent cost implications.  The project has been designed in an
effort to minimize incremental recurrent costs. Although additional
primary school classrooms will be constructed, no new teachers will be
hired. All students to be accommodated in the new facilities have a
teacher at present. However, in the long run the Government will need to
increase the number of teachers (in response to population growth) as well
as teacher salaries. In addition, allocations for school supplies and
textbooks whic1- amount to approximately US$10 per student will have to
grow. This represents about 10% of annual expenditures in primary
education. Moreover, the Government will need to allocate funds for school
maintenance (para. 3.6). Apart from these 1!Jm1ted recurrent cost
implications of the project's primary scho.6  co tponent, there are no
recurrent cost implications associated wi.  othcr project components.
C. Prolect Administration
1.    Preparation, Manatement and Implementation
3.41     Present Status of Preparation.  The project was prepared by a
comnittee of six Government officials appointed by the Government and by a
team from UNESCO. Subsequently, a PPF was approved by the Bank to finalize
preparatory activities, including:
(a) topographic site surveys for school construction and contract
with architectural firm for school design work;
(b) consultant services for educational planning and
administration;
(c) consultant services for preparation of a revised program of
studies at ICM and the Faculty of Economics;
(d) consultant services for preparation of equipment lists for
the Faculty of Engineering; and
(e) consultant services for organizing PROFORMA, the project
management unit.
3.42     De pite provisions included in the PPF and extensive project
preparation, there remain t-io obstacles to the prompt initiation of project
activities:
(a) 36 families are currently living on 6 out of the 25 sites
designated for school construction or expansion, and the
Government needs to resettle these families before
construction can take place; and
(b) housing for project experts is not readily available in
Maputo and might delay the arrival of proposed consultants.



- 21 -
3.43     In response to the first obstacle, the Government presented a plan
for the resettlement of the 36 families now living on these sites. The
plan, which is based on a survey of households currently occupying these
sites, was found to be satisfactory by IDA. It includes provision for
compensation to cover the costs of materials and labor to reconstruct
housing, as well as transportation, for these ferilies. Replacement plots
of adequate size have been identified, but tley are located at some
distance from the original plots. As part oi the agreed resettlement plan,
the Cit,f of Maputo is in the process of identifying plots that are closer
and giving each of the families a choice of relocation site.
Responsibility for implementation of the resettlement plan will rest with
DECCM, assisted by PROFORMA. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that, not later than June 30, 1989, it will have taken all
necessary measures to free of all occupants the sites formally attributed
to DECCM to carry out the primary school construction program.
3.44     In response to the second obstacle, the project will finance
construction, equipping and furnishing for ten houses for project experts.
After project completion, these houses will remain under MINED's control
and administration, subject to Government housing policies.
3.45     Project Management.  The PROFORMA director will have overall
responsibility for coordinating and supervising project implementation. He
will be directly responsible to the Vice Minister of Education, and will
serve as the liaison between MINED, the various project implementing
instititions, the National Bank of Mozambique, and the World Bank. He will
meet regularly with a Coordinating Committee to oversee the activities and
financial aspects of the project and prepare reports required by the
Government and the World Bank. He will also be responsible for
organization of PROFORMA, its staff, documentation, and the compilation and
maintenance of project files. The location of PROFORMA within the
Governmental structure !a shcwn in Annex 3-13, and the PROFORMA
organization is shown in Annex 3-14.
3.46     PROFORKA basic staff will consist of a deputy director, an
engineer, an administrative officer, an accountant, two procurement
officers, and two construction supervisors. Both the accountant and
procurement officers will report to the administrative officer and the
construction supervisors will report to the engineer. The administrative
officer will provide overall administrative assistance to the director and
other staff members. The accountant will keep financial records of project
accounts and prepare applications for withdrawal of funds from the Bank of
Mozambique. The procurement officers will supervise all relevant
procedures concerning furniture and equipment, including tendering and
contractual procedures, order planning, and reception and delivery of
furniture and equipment with the responsible project agencies. The
engineer will supervise the implementation of the technical and
architactural aspects of the project. He will also participate in the
selection and appointment of engineering and architectural consultants, the
approval of designs and other technical studies, and supervision of all
tendering and contractual procedures, preparation of payment certificates
and the acceptance of buildings.



- 22 -
3.47     Responsibility for implementing the technical components will be
divided as follows: The directorate for studies and projects of the
University Eduardo Mondlane will .e responsible for implementing the
components of the Faculty of EngiLeering and the Faculty of Economics.
SETEP (the State Secretariat for Technical and Vocational Training) will be
responsible for the component at ICM. MINED's Planning Unit will be
responsible for educational planning and financial management activities.
ISP will implement the training program for school managers and principals.
3.48     Sckool repairs and maintenance will be carried out by DECCM.
While PROFOhhA would be responsible for bidding processes and supervision
of works, DECCM would assist in school location planning, reparation of
existing classrooms, and maintenance of newly constructed classrooms.
3.49     The PROFORMA director will be assisted by a Coordinating Committee
chaired by the Vice Minister of Education and consisting of representatives
of each of the institutions responsible for project implementation (the
University, the Faculties of Engineering and Economics, the director of the
MINED Planning Unit, INDE, SETEP, and ISP). Annex 3-15 lists the members
of the Coordinating Committee.
3.50     Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance requirements for this
project have been carefully designed to take into account high costs of
consultants, the small number of local counterpart staff available to work
with internationally-recruited consultants, as well as housing shortages in
the City of Maputo. For each technical assistance position the Government
is now in the process of identifying a suitable counterpart. A detailed
list of consultant positions, terms of reference, and Mozambican
counterpart positions is found in Annex 3-16. Annex 3-17 provides details
regarding project expert and U.N. Volunteer services. At negotiations,
assurances were given by the Government that it would (i) select, not later
than December 31, 1988, all consultants needed to assist the Government in
project implementation, and (ii) appoint all said consultants not later
than May 30, 1989.
3.51     Fellowships.  Fellowships and study tours will contribute to
improved management in project institutions as well as provide advanced
training to faculty at ICM and UEM. Selection of candidates for
fellowships will be made by the implementing institutions, which will also
prepare detailed TORs for each fellowship a&,d study trip. Additional
information concerning fellowships and study trips is found in Annex 3-18.
3.52     Proiect Implementation Schedule.  Implementation is expected to
take six years beginning in October 1988. The project would be completed
by December 31, 1994 and it would be closed by December 31, 1995. An
implementation schedule showing implementation activities for the first
five years of the project is shown in Annex 3-19.
3.53     Proiect Implementation Reviews and Proiect Evaluation.  Annually,
PROFORMA will prepare an evaluation report on project activities (par&.
3.30). This report will be discussed with IDA in an annual project review
meeting to be held every year in April. Project monitoring indicators are
found in Annex 3-8. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that it would conduct jointly with IDA project implementation reviews on an
annual basis and not later than April 30 of each year in order to:
(a) discuss the annual evaluation report prepared by PROFORMA; (b) monitor



- 23 -
progress in achievi-s project objectives; (c) identify implementation
issues and proposed solutions; (d) promote exchange of ideas among staff
Involved in project implementation; and (e) update project timetables and
cost estimates.
2.    Procurement Plan
3.54     The following procurement arrangements would apply:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS Million)
LCB
and local               Total
ICB     shooppin    Other      Cost
Civil Works                           8.1 a/    0.7 b/     0.3 c/      9.1
(7.3)     (0.2)      (0.3)      (7.8)
Furniture                              -        0.5          -         0.5
(0.2)                 (0.4)
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles        2.4 a/    0.8 d/     0.6 el    3.8
(2.4)     (0.6)      (0.6)      (3.6)
Consultants' Services, Fellowships,
Study Trips, Training, Audits,
and Studies                          -         -         3.3 f/      3.3
(3.3)     (3.3)
Operating Costs and Salaries           -         -         0.6 31      0.6
(0.2)      (0.2)
PPF                                    -         -         0.6         0.6
iO 6)      (0.6S
TOTAL                                10.5       2.0        5.4        17.9
(9.7)     (1.2)      (5.0)     (15.9)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis indicate the amount to be financed by the
IDA credit.
a/ Contracts in excess of US$60,000 would be awarded through ICB according
to IDA Procurement Guid3lines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15Z of CIF price, or the
import duty, whichever is lower, and domestic contractors will receive
a preference of 7.52 following IDA guidelines.
bI Local contracts for finalizing schools which are already under
construction with government financing; IDA contribution would be
limited to US$200,000.
cl  Force account for school repairs and maintenance, with a maximum of
US$300,000.
d/ Items below US$60,000 might be procured by comparing quotations from at
least three reliable suppliers, with a US$600,000 maximum.
el About US$600,000 worth of school supplies financed by IDA and procured
through direct contracting with UNICEF, or through limited competitive
bidding, in consultation with IDA, for other qualified contractors with
capacity to deliver school kits.
f/ Includes architectural fees, and will be procured following IDA
guidelines.
&I Procurement through regular Government procedures.



- 24 -
3.55     Contract Review.  Bidding packages for construction and for goods
valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80Z of
the total estimated value of contracts. Smaller packages would be subject
to random post review by IDA after contract award.
3.    Disbursement
3.56     The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of six years
(between 1988 and 1994).  The credit proceeds would be disbursed on the
basis of the table shown below. All disbursements from the IDA credit
account would be fully documented except expenditures for: (a) contracts,
purchase orders or overseas training programs valued at less than
US$20,000; (b) local training programs; and (c) force account, operating
costs and salaries for which expenses would be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOE). Documentation would be retained by
PROFORMA for review by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
IDA            Z of Expenditure
Catesory of Expenditure            Allocation          to be Financed
1. Civil Works                        7.0       100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
2. Furniture                          0.4        100l  of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
3. Equipment, Materials, Vehicles    3.0         100l  of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
4. Consultant Services, Studies,
and Audits                         1.5        1001 of total expenditures
5. Training                           1.5        100% "    "
6. Operating Costs for PROFORMA
and DECCM office and salary
supplements for PROFORMA*          0.2        100%
7. PPF                                0.6
8. Unallocated                        1.7
Total                                15 9
*See para. 3.39
4.    Special Account
3.57     In order to expedite disbursements, the Government would establish
a Special Account for the project in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
An initial amount of US$1,000,000 equivalent would be deposited by IDA
after receipt and approval of a withdrawal application. This amount is
estimated to cover about four months of eligible payments. Replenishment
application would be submitted monthly and would be accompanied by the full



- 25 -
documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis of
certified statements of expenditures.
5.    Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
3.58     PROFORNA would establish an accounting system with assistance from
an experienced administrator. Auditing would be financed by IDA and
contracted with a specialized private firm. Statements of Expenditures
would be audited every six months and audit reports would be furnished to
IDA annually. To facilitate close monitoring of the project, PROFORMA
would also submit to IDA: (a) annual progress reports; and (b) within six
months of the project's closing date, a final report on the implementation
experience and project outcomes. Preparation of annual reports would also
be financed by the project (para. 3.30) and every year they will be
presented in the April review meeting (para. 3.53).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1      Benefits.  The project would strengthen Mozambique's educational
system in an effort to make it more responsive to the country's urgent
needs for skilled manpower and effective human resource development. It
would also support the generation of data to assist the Government in its
development of a comprehensive education sector strategy. At the primary
level, pupils in Maputo will benefit from increased class hours and an
expanded curriculum as a result of improved school facilities, as well as
from the provision of school supplies. Support for improvements at the
Commercial Institute of Maputo and at the University Eduardo Mondlane's
Faculties of Engineering and Economics will lead to the production of
graduates who can strengthen the country's industrial and commercial
sectors and help to alleviate shortages in these areas. Improvement in
MINED's planning and financial management capability will permit more
efficient use of education sector resources. The project will also build
education project management skills within the Ministry of Education.
4.2      Risks. Risks are two-fold. First, Mozambique's experierne in
managing education projects is limited. There are few trained managers in
the sector and there is very little experience in international bidding
processes, project management and monitoring, in keeping accounts or
performing audits. This risk is being addressed through the creation of a
Project Management Unit within MINED as well as intensive staff training
and the provision of technical assistance. Second, the severe political
and economic instability associated with the ongoing war represents a
highly inhospitable atmosphere in which to implement development projects.
This risk has been taken into account by targetting project activities
exclusively in Maputo, which is relatively secure from fighting and the
population upheaval caused by the war. In light of these design features,
risks would be minimized and the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for investment in the improvement of the educational sector
in Mozambique.



- 26 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5 1      Airements Reached at Ne*otiations
During negotiations assurances were sought from the Government that
it would:
A. Prepare by March 31, 1992 a strategy for financing and managing
the development of the education system. The strategy would
incorporate findings of the financial, managerial and language
studies carried out under the project, as well as results of the
manpower planning exercise, and it would include: (a) a statement
on growth targets for the formal education system; (b) levels of
recurrent expenditures needed to increase of primary, secondary
and university education; (c) a statement of priority investments
to be financed between 1990-2000 and (d) a plan for strengthening
the managerial structure and efficient administration of
education at national and provincial levels (para. 3.31).
B. Conduct jointly with IDA, project implementation reviews on an
annual basis and not later than April 30 of each year, in order
to:
(i) discuss annuel project evaluations carried out by
PROFORMA;
(ii)  monitor progress made in achieving project objectives;
(iii) exchange information among staff responsible for project
implementation and propose solutions to any current
problems; and
(iv) update project timetables and cost estimates (para.
3.53);
C.  Prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and comment:
(i) not later than March 31, 1989 and not later than March
31, 1990 the progress reports on (a) the study on
financing of the education system; (b) the language
study; (c) the education sector management study; and
(d) the manpower planning study;
(ii) not later than March 31, 1991 the final results of the
studies mentioned above (para. 3.30);
D. In order to assure timely project implementation, select all
consultants needed to assist the Government in project execution
by December 31, 1988, and appoint all said consultants by May 30,
1989 (para. 3.50);



- 27 -
S. Introduce in the national budget for 1990 a school maintenanee
line item and allocate to it funds sufficient to carry out annual
maintenanee of schools built, expanded, rehabilitated, and
refurbished under the Project (para. 3.6); and
F. Take all necessary measures, not later than June 30, 1989, to
free of all occupants the sites formally attributed to DECCH to
carry out the primary school construction program (par&. 3.43).
5.2      Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$15.9 million equivalent to the People's Republic
of Moxambique.



- 28 -
Annex 1-1
MOZAMBIQU!
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEMVLOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Prolect File
Ref. No.                          Documents                    Document Code
Government of Moxambibue
1.   An Education Project Credit Request Document             D10033
(March 1987)
2.   Analise dos Resultados do ler Recenseamento
Geral de Populacao                                       D10041
3.   Projecto da Racionalizacao do Aparelho
Administrativo da Educacao                               D10042
4.   Working Documents                                        D11025
UNESCO
5.   A Financial Feasibility Study of the National
Education System in Mozambique (Duvicusart,
March 1986)                                              D09307
6.   Profil du systeme educatif en Mozambique
(Hugon and Chabrillac, 1986)                             D10034
7.   Educational Policy in Mosambique - Analysis and
Constraints (Deble, 1986)                                D09304
8.   Mission de Preparation - Banque Africaine de
Developpement (December 1983)                            D10035
9.   Institut National Pour le Developpement de
L'Education Rapport de la Mission d'Evaluation
(April 1986)                                             D10036
SIDA
10.  Joint Annual Review - Swedish Support to Education       D10037
in Mozambique (1985 and 1986)                            D10038
11.  Education in Mozambique 1975-84 (Johnston)               D10039
12.  Education and Economic Crisis - The Cases of
Mozambique and Zambia (Johnston, Kaluba, Karlason,
Nystrom - October 1987)                                  D10040



- 29 -
Annex 1-2
MOZUMBIOUE
Education and Manpower Develonment Proiect
Basic Data Sheet
General (1980 - 1986)
GNP per capita               US$150
Land area                     800,000 square kilometers
Total population              14 million
of which - rural           87!
- urban           13S
Population growth rate
- natioual        2.6Z
- urban           7.6S
Life expectancy at birth      46 years
Languages
- official        Portuguese (spoken by 24? of the population)
- national        16 other languages
Enrollments in Education (1986)
Enrollment        Growth
Total           Ratio           Rate
Primary                       1,200,000         80.0             0.22
Secondary                       132,000          8.8             6.42
Higher                            1,630          0.2             8.5?
Education Expenditures
Total Ministry of Education expenditures (1985):   US$20.8 million
(4,165 million meticais)
Percent of total Government budget (1983):          11.1?



-3-                                                            Annex 1-3
Page 1 of 2
ImOL. 9)s             in S WAI     Um lf               500n.1   SAAIO        Pl  m           US? "am  9200055510SA
(1919) (t9i9)   mm,iu  wmmzim                  (3)       (57)    (2)         (3)     TEam    UP/CapItA        C)          (I)    "aC.a       (2)
(5)  I(2)  I      (3)          (4)      I    (5)         (         m)  ( I   (5)   I  (9)   I (10) I    UI)              (52)      (1      (14
j*2 .317.1                         341   a      11 90  l               2         2s        5.9         '3     5   Is        1        4
5ggoma            *U   23~                            9:              24    *      2b      IS        61        37       10            14         27       39        3.16
MUA       92    59325,932    7.10 i          30.         54 6 1           is        i        i           j       240          6           PI       22       4.60
I62.ATi2          46    16.525I9302    9.7           59.3'       340  33          job      be        9         22        st.SW        St          12       it       4.00
ram  .8.           3       .      93      5.4        21.        46   51 n 22is 18                              38         20          3           last     3?'      5.601
MILINI      19    46.02~3  9502"   2.0?        14.9      64   36            73       p        *          It        ?*j          g3                  36       21.00
i2UI              U      2.    4.438      2.1         9.1        is   46516       53        92       51        25         6.4    6          is   I         2        O.00
UIIIUNI.          63     O.2      I4 .0               90        415462            Is        19       U         27        t0.$         40          20       Is       2.50
to&AIL            a    49.02    sob    3.4           J0. 3       ff   142o        992      541      '8         I!         0-is        a           46       to       4.00
uma               *      f..b    -        5.3        13.35       612 v      4     u        Its       GO        24        31.0         35          20       59       2.00
Madison           IV    9.32       so     1.59       10.5141     St   513         3b        63       -          3         3.6         -           19       2        1.4
wAffo        5l  1.2    a    3.9    51.0                                     10-  -3             -         - -             -           -          -           -
tau              1 639.6         210     2.9,        9.ET      -         - -     36        19'                41        -ads5                                      8 .301
MAL              63    1.012   530O    1.4         -           -                 i        70e                 3        -                        25        23       3.70'
rmtutm       a      57lb    20       3.e          7.0       334n      6       22       30       45        30         3.9          36         II        Is       3.00
-       1.1         3.7       415955s           It        3121     9         372       -            6                 ~1          a b  .o01
630632            I9    is 3   1.779      3.5'       12.3        34' 29' 25'   33           5)1      43'       31         7.0?         $33        all      39       3.101
Uom               ai    43:ss    630'   4.28          1.9        SO1  338  26'   44         ?33      00        34"        9.           63'        438      IFm    21.00
19     9.3   4.246     2.9        5o.9b       31   36  I1      -         9121     -          3,2       6.1?         -9=                  2121    51.60b2
Isa               19    36.9      -       3.10?      14.518      -    - -         3         08                  2 -   - So laea3                    M      340      4.908,
IRAQ              19    52.6   2.110      4.3ey       9.9011           -    -     -        100       -          5                                 4sly    2no       9.30'?
trALM        II      3b.42.6         6.3117     21.6',       -i-lo                     9)       94        39         -el S                             14      I10
JOiflit   55     2.22~~~1.4302    4.90       50.3           1 446 Is       02       92'      63        33        13.1          -          99        3        69
55aMM             19      2.3     -       -          Ii.S401                                                   It   9    9 -                       6                 19'
N0M=              64    25*2    6102    9.0'         22.9        3s43519          33        310       9        31        13.1          -          1'                 ggo
ONO1              63      1.22 6.490b    3.2          MIS .7                       30bf     1j8x     GS&       23'                     go0         5        14'
sonuoas           i      10.221.91702    9.9          .11.       30   26  1S      so       12        70        56        29            9           5        59       .0
2050114       157   22.1 2.100       3.921        -.21                  -             j 1260               as         ~                       "4in     W2 0.
SPAIN             16    37.0   4.920      3.51       19.91       -                          92  aI--                                               11      -         45
51324       76     5~~~~.6   15170  4.4p       103        3     5 2         3         ,1       0                   -9                        11      32        1.0b
103291            19     6.4 2.120        1.0        10.0        424616           112     IO         00        392                     44 3       300       20       .0
TV#=!             63     47.35 .20        3.3        19.3        202n234          732      lie        7         Al        6.0          U5         26        15       6.00
TumA.S.           69    ,92    3302    7.59          57.7        00 2055l         l1e       33        5         .4       37.8          so          9        so       1.
TOICm9S .*..      42      2.02    uab    7.6          9.7        63851409  3s      3        91       34        33        22.0'         46         17        3         .2
3. 143                                    laOes 8 99   O?                           I                                                  is U                 as5e
384008                                  C1.4.        (0.1-  (33-  (6- (3-    (6-        (52-      (5.        (17-      (1.4-         (10-       (5-      (6-      (0.03-
50.0)         54.1) 94)   46)  33)   is)        119)    is)          17       79.0)         100)        64)      44)     29.0)
Qmnl1"iuppoqi                           3.9          21.7     52 36 n           6I       Is        so        43        30            51         41       39       .11.
51411..                      4.0           56.5     432559            3)       93       65         33        I)           95          25       22       3.1
5t.w                         3.0           55.0     33153s           33        40       33         25         9           40          54       lo       1.0
qeestil.. 6.,2a11.I           ~~~1.3         3.4    6.3  7.5  4.5   31.0      59.0     22.5        1.0       S.    3.9  22.5          59 ~    3.3        3.0
Na.9:                         ~~~~         ~~~~~~4.4  57.0  46355t     33       19       39         36        59           92          35       13       9.9
ftoo"eukI   lo.st                        5.9           5.7     5210        I 7   2        21        24        52        53            21         33        1       1.6
Nedloas                                  4.0          26.0      432559           33       63       95         33        23            43         24       23        3.1
GTMOLS-:
DAMNl InVAwUAzS                                             A - DA122 F310R 10 LAM VW6                      a - NlINXtu V  UIOAflOIS (EN) OILT
KU0NX1W6M O11l0 UULI=IS                                      OAT3415  on   -CII O"6  an3  VW6             T    -       STA ATE 00VEIWUS (05.
DAM13 qn?611943                                             P - CoLDES  95159I                              V - 1022.1   WII         OIL!
O    Lo3   Pa23tIGN aris52s                                 0 - MT? gouNS? 511                             I * t805.0863 O96-lO" STUSShl
I - 0I2  Ea BULUnS RT man                       I - 3510   CE
9 -Ga
INUW.           Colmos I mal 2i buwd 8w  Ai     w15    Upstead    etow f ield 4681o.e
toa 36  14u  381691  lek "es"lin  ""or 46081308. 030085mM  '0011
MeIvlbo i.e ..a 64110111.1 tes:2.e4.
C~omaraive Edgalbm *at* we weldl to the .o1lealm of wuloem adwtie 1slower ml malyis of relative stases of
ldewdS.m  6eveo1qM  ble,    Y01i40 emeaiee. Soeee.. 03 lbs buts so lb  91mo  date. cews.atuslml 5911m"i
02e1 2. 00r'stedo with petel tiemte. hi.e pt"oged to 1. ..v. 1.21. love bees colleced largely by aesh smislm
It" Sovatmov omussel lb Castlde arm s142f .011.w se dole Lu. Swee". Elleita boom bee sods to steoads:dtse
deL1ttdimt Md. witMa 11mits. to amket th s.em.o'a de, 1 lIe dll.. UvubIeo.euc does ago still I0tleetl to
se"",a 13000184 a"     . leask la vges tol Lrge"1a    Ibm  peoguaelv.y - L.., sceea.bm  at Its e9e1rl5.0a work.  Is lb
O" 46 Maw 4618, do 1e2UinIa s ellflestles aebli be be"t sakuit
(1)   '6eeslm t   -  4615.46 6 le t 1.21.U Iael46m  eli adeUIt    ml tmlaiss. 2.02 L.rml ml Cm  ezml.
(2)   'Mtlew  06.8sl. sales,t -            toouga des4  the 64,81 lowel, ml  um.dwav7' edolOtl. Coeon t.11U edeatue.
at lbe eone.s',s lessi weragmilee4  19 of    .g. * gmual. 1.o1c.e. ailtmlle:8I).
(3)    111er8q Viewe  (eel. 6) an oft" elamad from eoml  eosesm.  le no               .011w   1101ie     tI w  ttal
eze6d3lmoO ml IsI 46020.1fol O" my 11.,s deLLaltime se lEteraele ha boa fo.15-46 .m81.lstaly.
(1)    6411*. UPesdltus  in adm"ieesl    w      4 ml 3) "left to 21 mowe"  Age Ton.lown" Iitlute  devoted to
s,80l1m by pah1le ml qworl-ps"1 seem""e.
(3) Lwlisz.me ,atlto (cola. 7. II SW 14) efolgto 64ebhel TMe ed an ve lb 90:ltlp of eligible chIldiw
eevell.d  ollU-Hom In lb  40pp391251  seIed. 96118lle Md   lvaee by jewe.  Tho7 are else. sobjoul t64a*314
meths"o 46 vInsm tlb deosisplas cmolata wigs to wauieltom 64 l seaeme of bas1s de1 (.. .4.,
ale-spealfll popelalm ml mlamlemst). Essollmu flegrom ,e gwo.tl we big2.: tbm tSb maber of
56460.64 mbtmIJ  to slb.1   Owin-epps -beoW he 2.   *MeI     to 11000 Eep . 54d cm  1025l1. lb  ratios.



31
Annex 1-3
Page 2 of 2
CORWAL
10 NNMTM  malxmmw                 AmIr            mu m                  NnT cm  MIAZRM140
ow m                 . VWAM                 IVISMS LITBRACT MMIl ratb"v   Paimay IPRIORT   "Ts nm    stomm  Slow"" 010014
mu M. WtTA pmm  ow Tom awfuL AUAMM la, mu   WIMMLL. OCNOOL   MM" ROUTUR MMRV 10 SOMA. ST" ING&L.
is" mu". (VO) U"M 10 swe                         vu M  u    (2)  UTIO CTOA    Mlk   M reams Iscommi "Tie   M                                             PATIO
(1979) (1079)   awcam              tim           (1)        (1976)   (S)         (2)      TUACOU    QWJCAPITA        (2)        (2)      1014WOM      (1)
(1)     (2)        (3)                          (Si          (6)       (1)       (a)        (9)         (10)                     (12)       (13)
14 GIA                                                      -         tol.      Ice         31        -              99          73        13       30.96
MM                        23:?b                         11 ": 15,                       go       top       too         It        19.9&1        100          92X       to      31.60K
4O1MW1V P.R.        79    $1.2  lI.m         4.6          O."        -         -     -  99b       O"       two         -         -             toos         gla                11.16A
NOINOW640010        n     14    ;  490       79           3.1              35   is      "b,       96        95         Is                       IS          83                la "
NOW MuLkID          00     31'.  a:NIP,   5:1-           13.4        331,  31   n       "b       loo       loo         34        IN"           too          a                 25:60"
19     4.3  11.296       9.0         18.3        It   to   is       "b        9"       too         184       19.9          too          7"        low     36.5007
mfflmo            63      1.0     "ob                              41   34   n        40       100        77         32        io.o           40          30        n         1.46
&I              135      a           19.0        43         v                 2"        33         37        20.2           12           p        17        1.00
comm"               44     0.41)   34S       3.19        SS.0        0    n    32       49        76        40         39        -              AS          36        u        0.60
wimm                64     0.4      4w       3.0         11.9        73   36   ...    to          .2        0          40        67.0           40          it        it       0.64
sinzwu                       0      Ito      3 GV         is         35   25   17       34        31        304        63        19.3           934         14       44        0.50
lmm                 8,    PKAU    620        s rb        20 lib      65   16   II       "b       its        W          36        14.4           35          is       26        -
Mow                ft      t.4b    435b    3.5           16.9        n    32   M        33b      tlGz       41         41         9.6           46          n         St        1.30
HADAUSM             77        3     330      4.40        14.0        33   U    19       30        94'm                 SSb        &.0           36          14        23        S.IQW
,b                                           if,
NUAM                I     N,    330         3.5         21.4        36         25      as        62        23         ts         3.4           n            4        21       0.40
MANUTM              a      I      1.17       4.3         14.0        46   36    7                           72         13                      too          n         n         I.00
210M                as     5:9b    27        3.6         V.&         n    16   ts                 63        30         40        26:0,           9           s        16       0.40
srtcmmm             79   0.6  I.TT*   5.9    32.46   346 3P  IN                                             ;-b   25    -                       -           -         -    -
II     4.%      M        1.3         10.5        501k "b                                           "b         S.ob          so,#        ilb       n         1.00
so    10.2      380      3.0         -           GG   "    ...    32          Wa        Go         34         1.4                       16        16      ...
SMASILM             83     LIP    94011   3.SPb          30.4        51   31   is       tsb       93        so         33        11.0           90          n         W         3.00
TANUMIA             so    14.5      260      5.9         17 7        47   10            Tob       "b        67         43        11.0           lgb          S        M         0.30
St    ":Gb Al   300b    -            IG: IV      nb  37b  1:6    as           34m       61         34        -              17           3        n         C."
MAXIM                         lb    210b    7.7          26.4        -    ;;   10       54b       76        as         30        21.0           40          is                  2.06
SMIA                so      S.?b    mGb    4.sp          11.1        44         n       "b        IS        M          44        12.9           19          16        n         9.30
and                a      I.Ib    700b    3.1           19.3              32    6      "b                  33         n         20.0           83          Is        23        0.50
79     3.4b    nob    6.59           33.0        43   ti    s    lib                    30                   14.0          so           It       43        1.007
63     Ls       210b    LI*          21.1        43   29   n        9         16        35         57        24.3          16            3       36        0.03
CAMINNIN            "     10.0      8149    3.10         -           n    38   n       30         IS        45%        so        -             -            n         U         2.70
C.A.16              a      1.611   20b    3.807          14.78Y      "    14   26    -            it        43         63"       Is                         is        67        I.4087
c1dM1               is   4.4   no   2.4%w   21.1b    -  -  -                                      ny    -                                                    3xy   21    *.M
76  1.5  GIG   Lamy   37.70Y   -  -  -                                        -         -          S,by   -                30           -        43W   4.0007
NW . onma           as     0.3b    2706    Lo             3.0        47   Zs           20%        Ls        10         so          .2           40          n         1747      -
cam                 17     0.6   3.4m        LIbY         1.47       -    -                                            4"w        !                                   igby      Z.1087'
77     0.6      no       3.3aw        6 Sb       46   236   60   10b          40ty      "A         siby      44.72         40           ilbe      II
GFAPA               76  U.3  400   4.07    IS:Sb    r- -  -   -                                   7IM7  -              27by   -                 -           36uw   at
WISMA               79     S.3      290?    4.,41P       -           na  26a  no   20             34        36         36        20.0op        as           16        n         7.000
IVOR  Gun           a      9.3b    no        7.3         41.6        St   40    9    3397         72        79         37        29.0          49           22zs      30        I.90
Ltswu                       ':9     no       4.6         10.6        43   23   24    30           n         sa         is        20.0           76          n         n         2.90
VALI                8,     I au    Ito       4.20        21.70       30   n    It    lo           20        10         44        13.7           Go           I        It        O.9w
is     1.6b    320b    5.5           16.9        33   43   25    Ilb          32        to                   52.0          30            9       n         0.37
64     3.2      300      2.6         It.0        40   n    30    14           n         20         36        41.0          37            6       n         0.50
wisou               43    ".$It   7,Ob    7.47           16 0                -   3                                                              47          n         30        2.00
51001CM             64     6.4      380      S.                      WI, ;b  11    36             Ss        70         36        19-5
34                      tb   n           32        39                   26.0          ISS         too       24        2.304
$tam                n      3.4      330      6. obb        It        -                 126        319                  35        D.0%           84          ISU       n        0.6067
TM                  is   L4   40   61    alt "                      304 Sp W   n                 74                   54by   U.6               32          uuw   46b   1.60by
O    REM            a     27.3   2.2to       2.7         10.9        438  314  188   93b          IS        $a         17                       67          31         6       33.00
smims               it     0.2   X'no        5.7         19.1        36   IS   It    "b           SP        SI         24                       #7          is        It      -
amom                is     0.1   2.690       8.5=7       U.14        4P   316  160   "b          1007                  277       it.98         9"           IV        2W      -
aftnu               40  5.4  me   4.187   30.34   -  -  -   63    747                                                  20Y   -                 -            ny   -    U.W
11,211              n    116.                3.1
"O         lbr        6.1        St         14    76          n"                   nay        4.0          sit          lpy       1497
cmIlA               76    AVA    1:990       S.          U.06,       -          -      -         livbw                 34by      -                          SOW       2ow    1111:190"b'y
ONAMU               Go    a$.lb  I1          3.3         35.0        35   30   a       $lb        is        96         32         6.6                       41        to       MGM
21106        40     LSI) 1:6          M           31.1        40   V    33    90           93        71         33         5.3           77          40        v
cm                  31     9.6      -        LO          11.0                                    I                                             SO           itblw    15       is 02ty
Blunt=    W.                 3   1.030       2.9         t3.0        39-                          so        31         50         3.2           94          30        33      16-00
selAm                      :14b  1.110       MF          36.7        43   31   16    n           M          -          36        12.6
4.4     $40      SAVY            iby     0      a   V   a            UP"       32         39
NL &&TAM                                                                                                                                        .1          36%W      21by     7 9ow
GIASENU             I*                                   n  61,      -                            "bay    -            35by 6.8   1,010  LIPS  #9           isww      igby     5.50
099M                is   0.6  G"   4.1by    U.Sby   -                                             "ww   -              sabj,  -                -            squ,               3.00by
a=                  so     S.0b    no        L40          I "I       0      9    1    23b         so        30         41        19.0          62a           44       v        0.40
is     5.6      320     3.SPP        14:3by      U&  isft  Igo   Go           49%W      300        41bi      12.66         "a           URY      19        $."v
imvza               so     2.1   1.110       6.5         13.7        31   43   W       n          98        n          40         11.3         95           #I        n        6.00
once                lo    63.       M        4.7         17.06       466   n    is    IS          SO        53         44         9.3           06          56        II       10.30
NICARAM           . n    L    sidb  3.0'-   14.0b    -  -    -  M                                 IS    26             spb    -                -            361M  so    -
IMWAIA              n      1.    : $30       5.5-7       21.6ty      Us  134  is   IU61bb         93-11a    -          25by      11.4           656         sob,      27by    0.4obF
PAKAIM              it     3.    1:140       1.40        14.1        42   17   30    44           03        n          34         S. It         76          n         n        0.70
VW                  of    16.    Ian         3.6         14.3        53   is   it    so           43        56         39         9.6           Go          39        n        14.40Y
21XNIMM  & gm       77     1.    3:910       4.617        LOS,    46   32   30    95              n         91         so        10.3t          49          a         24      -
is  1.9 2.300   Ls                    9.46    -  -  -   94    losbu   -                            141A   -                -            "be   -    17.2m
vommou                    14.. 3.Gaq   L&Y               Wqb    -  -  -   42    106ba   -                              2%    -                  -           3lbE   17   31.107



MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Organigram
wwmtft~ ~     Ml fo           Wc *ftSr   eno
6dOxa"        Fericg_____                        lacn Edu             = omTnbd
&*na            EDucx         TeTd"n cd                      hw ta== e   . oac                                     a lou
(DNEG)          (DNFA)        b(Dwrfu)                              (DP)           (DWF)           (DA4)           (E)
1 
DdNF1EI
YAMd 80*411U01 



- 33 -
Annex 2-1
EDUCATION AND KAUPOUR DEVELOM(ENT PROJECT
basic Enrollment Data
Average annual
growth rate
Primary Education *1                    1980         1986        1960-80  1980-83
(grades 1-4)
Number of students         416.000   1,247,000   1,260,000         5.6?      0.21
Number of schools            3,200       5,730        5,000
Number of teachers           4,400      17,030       21,500 cl
Net enrollment rate                         48           48
Gross enrollment rate           51          75           80
Studentslteacher              69:1 bi     81:1          l 51l d
Students/school              130:l       217:1        252:1
Secondary Education
(grades 5-9)
1984        1960-80  1980-84
Number of students el       15,000     103,000      132,000        10.0?    6.42
Number of schools                          123          172
Number of teachers             700       2,677        3,704
Net enrollment rate
Gross enrollment rate            2           5            9
Students/teacher              17:2 bI     38:1         36:1
Students/school                          837:1        767:1
Higher Education
Number of students           2,000 bi    1,000        1,630          -       8.5?
Number of teachers
(part-time)                 220 bI       244         376 f/
Students/teacher               9:1 b/                   3:l f/
Students with scholar-
ships abroad                                       1,000
Gross enrollment rate          0.3 bI      0.1          0.1
a/   Prior to 1986 primary education comprised grades one through four.  Since
1987, first level primary (CP1) consista of grades one through five, and
second level primary (MP2) consists of grades six and seven.
b/   1970
c/   3,000 teachers are working two shifts.
d/   24,500 teachers - shifts are considered.
e/   Including students in technical education (not including adults).
f/ Teaching staff, including 200 expatriates, most of whom are assistants who
will eventually replace expatriates. The real studentiteacher ratio is
6:1.



- 34 
Annex 2-2
MOZAMBIOUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEmELOPMENT PROJECX
Evolution of Chief Indicators of the Education System
(1975-1984)
(Meticais)
Number
of
Current       Current       Current    pupils
Total number                  expenditure   expenditure   expenditure   per
of guDils 1/     Teachers 11  ('000.000)    per vuuil    per teacher  teacher
1975     709.295        10,281 21       1,125        1,586                      C5e3 2
1976   1,326,586        15,000 21       1,366        1,03.                      85.1 2/
1977   1,423,010        18,827          1,580        1,100         83,922       75.6
1978   1,507,353        19,008          1,934        1,283        101,741       79.3
1979   1,604,408        20,310          1,900        1,184         93,550       79e0
1980   1,495,864        20,275          2,527        1,689        124,636       73.8
1981   1,486,728        22,441          3,029        2,037        134,976       66.3
1982   1,448,533        24,439          3,702        2,556        151,479       59.3
1983   1,348,566        24,651          3,822        2,834        155,044       54.7
1984   1,447,364        26,604          4,071        2,813        153,022       54.4
_/ Excluding adult education.
2/ Primary education only.
Source: UNESCO (Baudouin Duvieusart), March 1986.



I    I~~~~---  
ji 1  -          -I2 
iitE        ___   __



- 36 -
Annex 2-4
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOVER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Expenditure on Education:
Mozambique and Other Countries
Recurrent
Total Expenditure on Education    Education Expenditure
as a Z of         as a Z  of           as a Z of
State Budget           GDP         Recurrent Expenditure
Hozambique
(average 1980-1984)      11.1                 4.4                  17.3
Eurundi 1983                14.4                3.3                  20.1
Ethiopia 1982               11.3                 4.1                 14.2
Kenya 1982                  16.5                 6.5                 20.5
Malawi 1982                 11.7                 2.6                  11.5
Rwanda 1981                 28.6                 4.6                 27.4
Sudan 1980                   9.1                4.7                  12.6
Tanzania 1979               10.7                 5.9                 23.8
Zambia 1982                 11.3                6.4                  14.0
SOURCE: UNESCO (Duvieusart), March 1986



- 37 -
Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND HANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the Development of the
Faculty of EnRineerin& at Eduardo Mondlane University
A Brief Description of the Faculty of Engineering
The Faculty of Engineering of Eduardo Hondlane University (EMU) is
located about 6 kilometers from the center of Maputo. It was created in
1963, during the colonial period. It is the biggest of the Faculties that
form EMU, in terma of number of students, teaching staff and courses that
are lectured.
The Faculty is organized in four departments (civil, electrical,
mechanical and chemical engineering) and five supporting services (general
administration, academic registrar, library, copies and bookshop, and
computing center).
Each Department is responsible for at least one engineering
course. Chemical engineering and mechanical engineering are single no-
option courses, while civil engineering has four different options in the
last year (structures, hydraulics, geotechnics, roads and construction) and
the electrical engineering department runs two courses, one in production
and distribution of energy, the other in electronics (telecommunications/
computers/automatic control). All the courses have the same general
structure:
- A duration of five years, each year divided into two semesters;
- The first year is common to all engineering courses;
- The second year, although not totally common, has most of the
subjects as common ones (mathematics, statistics, computing,
numerical methods, physics);
- The first semester is essentially dedicated to remedial courses
to eliminate any deficiencies the students bring from secondary
school;
- The last semester has no lectures and during this period the
student has to prepare a thesis on a theme defined usually in
accordance with the productive sector.
Each Department has its own building with two floors with total
covered areas between 400 and 600 m2. These buildings accommodate
simultaneously classrooms, laboratories, and other equipment and the
offices for the teaching staff. Besides these four buildings, there is
another to accommodate the supporting services and with some classrooms and
laboratories, and three small single-floor buildings.
The total number of students has been increasing continuously
since 1977 when a minimum was attained. It is expected that in 1988 the
Faculty will have more students than the maximum attained before
Independence, which was 740 in 1974. The evolution of the total number of
students in engineering courses is the following (there was a sharp
decrease between 1974 and 1977):



- 38 -
Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 9
1974 1977 1980 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987* 1988*
No. of students      740   100   160   370   420   481   540   670    800
*forecasted figures.
The distribution of students by the various courses was the
following in 1985:
Year
Course               1        2        3        4       5     Total
Civil                46       35      18       15       8      122
Electrical (2)       60       52      20       14       8      154
Mechanical           47       41      25       15       9      137
Chemical             35       24       6        0       3       68
Total              188       152      69       44      28      481
The distribution of students for the different courses is guided
by quotas defined by the National Planning Commission in relation with the
needs of the economy. For this reason, the number of students in chemical
eugineering is much smaller than in the other engineering courses. To
define who is going to which course, the wishes of the students as well as
their marks in secondary school and in the first year are taken into
account.
The number of graduates from the Faculty is still small but is
growing gradually each year.
Year                      1983      1984       1985      1986       1987*
No. of Graduates            6        15         25        30       35-40
*Forecast.
The distribution of graduates by courses was as follows in the last two
years:
Course              1985       1986      Total
Civil                  6         6         12
Zlectrical            8         12         20
Mechanical             9        10         19
Chemical               2         2          4
Total                25         30         55
In 1986, the Faculty had a total of 53 professors, half of whom
are expatriate, coming mainly from the Soviet Union and the German
Democratic Republic through agreements at the governmental level. From the
total of 26 national teachers, some of them are in post-graduate training
(M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees), while the majority has been recruited in the
last four years and is at the level of Junior Lecturer. The distribution
of teaching staff by courses can be sean belowt



- 39 -
Annex 2-5
Page 3 of 9
Nationals     Nationals       Other
Course           with Ph.D.  in post-xrad.   Nationals  Expatriate   Total
Civil                 3             2               5          4         14
Electrical            1             2               3          9         15
Mechanical            -             1               4         11         16
Chemical .                          3               2          3          8
Total                 4             8              14         27         53
The Faculty also has 18 students in the last two years of their courses who
are already working as "monitors and will be contracted as lecturers when
they graduate.
The Faculty has available the following laboratories:
(a)  Civil Engineering
- Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics
- Structural Engineering
- Soil Mechanics*
(b)  Electrical Engineering
- Electrical Measurements
- Electrical Machines
- High Tension*
- Electrical Workshop
(c) Mechanical Engineering
- Mechanics of Materials
- Thermodynamics
- Fluid Dynamics
- Motors
- Mechanical Workshop
(d) Chemical Engineering
- Unit Operations
- Metallurgy
- Reactors
- Control
(e) Computer Center* equipped with a PDP-11-34 with four
terminals, printer, plotter, two hard-disk drives (10 MB),
two floppy-disk units, two mag-tape units.
* These are the only laboratories that were created after Independence,
with very scarce equipment. All the others are old laboratories, some
already technologically obsolete and in need of modern inputs.
Due to various factors--deficiencies in knowledge from secondary
school, difficulties with lodging, food, transport and books at the
University, and others--the pass rate at the Faculty is low and conditions
have to be created to improve it. Presently, about 25? of the students
that enter the Faculty conclude their courses in the established period of
5 years, while 40Z take 6 or 7 years to graduate, and about one-third of
the students simply drop out, mainly in the first two years.



- 40 -
Annex 2-5
Page 4 of 9
The Need for Engineers for the Mozambican Economy
There is an enormous need for engineers for the development of the
Mozambican economy. At the present moment, the very difficult crisis that
the country is facing makes any projection for these needs quite uncertain,
but there are clear indications that, even now, when the rconomy is running
at less than half what it was before Independence, many important sectors
like railways, telecommunications, energy, water, irrigation and others,
are understaffed. This can be understood if we compare the more than 700
engineers that worked in Mozambique before Independence with the
approximately 450 now working in the country, of which only one-third are
nationals. So it can be said that the Faculty of Engineering has to
graduate engineers not only to serve the growth of the economy, but also to
satisfy the pressing needs felt today.
Although conscious of the limitations of this approach, the
Faculty conducted an inquiry, asking various sectors of the State
Administration and the main enterprises about their situation in 1986, and
their forecasted needs foz 1990/1995/200. The results, obtained from 25
important enterprises, are summarized in the following table.
--Situation in 1986---       -----Total Needs------
Graduates            Nationals   Expatriate       1990      1995     2000
civil                    52           124          282       358      456
Electrical               so            50          182       284      413
Mechanical               15            53          137       223      239
Chemical                  2                        31        42       53
Total                    99           236          632       907    1,161
To take into account all the other Sectors and smaller enterprises
that were not contacted in the inquiry, the number of 1,161 in the year
2000 was increased to 1,580, more or less equal amounts for Civil,
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers, and about one-third for Chemical
Engineers.
To achieve these numbers according to the statistics of the
Faculty, and considering the low pass rate, an annual intake of 210
students would be needed, a value that can be attained in 1990. When the
situation becomes stable, the resulting total number of students at the
Faculty would be about 1,100, twice the present number and 50Z more than
the maximum yet attained. Of course, an improvement in the pass rate will
allow the Faculty to achieve the same total number of graduates with a
smaller annual intake and a smaller total of students in the Faculty.
Anyway, the Faculty must prepare the conditions for a significant expansion
in teaching staff, laboratories, classrooms, technicians, and other
supporting services.
Considering the uncertainty about the economic development of
Mozambique in the next few years, the Faculty proposes to consider an
intermediate phase before the expansion to the total of 1,100 students. In
this intermediate phase, the total number of students would be limited to
about 800, that is more or less the number before Independence,



- 41 -
Annex 2-5
Page 5 of 9
corresponding to an annual intake of 150 students.  During this phase, the
Faculty would try to remove the main existing obstacles to efficient
operation and to improve the pass rate while, at the same time, would
prepare the conditions for expansion.
Main Actions for a More Efficient Functioning of the Faculty of EngineerinR
The Faculty of Engineering, like engineering schools in any other
country, is a very expensive institution. The need to make intensive use
of laboratories and workshops in the teaching process is essential to
prepare engineers that are able to deal with very different technological
problems in a changing world and in the difficult conditions of the
developing countries. This need is more important in the case of
Mozambique where many students who enter the engineering courses come from
rural areas or small towns where the contact with a technological
environment is very limited.
The crisis of the country is reflected in the Faculty, creating
many hindrances for an efficient functioning and for its development. The
main problems are concentrated in the following areas:
-    teaching staff
-    equipment
-    physical infrastructure
-    supporting services
-    maintenance and stocks.
The majority of the teaching staff of the Faculty is composed of
expatriate professors with all the problems that are associated with such a
situation - constant change of professors, difficulties with the Portuguese
language, ignorance about the country. In the last years the F&culty has
launched an intensive program to recruit and train more nationals with the
result that, at this moment, almost 50X already have a Ph.D. degree or are
doing post-graduate studies, and it is expected that within two years, the
total number will increase by 601. The Faculty hopes that, within 5 years,
80 of its teaching staff will be composed of nationals, although many of
them will be junior lecturers. This means that, in this area, support is
needed in different forms:
-    scholarships for post-graduate studies abroad, through the
Ph.D. level
-    financial support to recruit expatriate professors to teach,
while nationals are doing their post-graduate studies.
Also, the total number of professors has to increase not only to
allow for an expansion of the number of students, but also because there is
already a surcharge in teaching, leaving insufficient time available for
other important tasks such as the technical consultancy for industry and
research. In order for the Faculty to accommodate 1,100 students, the
number of professors would have to double. Again, financial support for
the recruitment of more professors would be needed.
Most of the laboratories are old, with some equipment not in
working order and some already obsolete. There are maintenance problems



- 42 -
Annex 2-5
Page 6 of 9
and for some equipment spare parts cannot be found because they are no
l.onger manufactured. Many of the laboratories and workshops have trouble
in getting raw materials and other consumption products. There is a need
to expand some of the laboratories to allow more students to work there at
the same time. Finally, a few new laboratories must be created. The most
important actions in this area are the following:
-    creation of the Laboratory of Electronics, including the
components of telecommunications, computers and digital
electronics, automatic control, analog electronics. It is a
very important field that is expanding in Mozambique;
-    creation of the Laboratory of Extractive Metallurgy - it is
essential to develop this laboratory to support the growth of
the metallurgical sector in Mozambique, according to the
plans of the Ministry of Industry and Energy;
-    strengthening of the Laboratories of Electrical Machines,
Electrical Measurements, Mechanics of Materials, Fluid
Mechanics and Hydraulics, Unit Operations, Structural
Engineering. These labs are already a constraint to an
improvement of the teaching process efficiency and for a
future expansion of the number of students;
-    expansion of the mechanical workshop, welding and carpentry -
the students must have training in workshops, learning how to
use machine-tools and other equipment. For this reason,
workshop is a compulsory subject for all the students, but
this implies that much more equipment is available;
-    installation of microcomputers - although the Faculty owns a
PDP-11-34 minicomputer, it is intended that the Departments
should have microcomputers that, with the growing capacities,
decreasing prices and large amounts of user-friendly
software, will certainly have a great impact in Mozambican
enterprises. The Faculty wants students to use the micros
during their studies, so that they can understand their
potential, advantages, limitations and traps;
-    increasing the audio-visual equipment - higher efficiency in
teaching can be obtained by having available more equipment
like slide projectors, overhead projectors, photographic
cameras, 8 mm film projectors.  Video equipment, including a
video camera, would be most useful in this respect;
-    creation and strengthening of the laboratories of Building
Mlaterials and Soil Mechanics - until now, the Faculty used
the laboratories of the Engineering Laboratory of Mozambique
(LEM) but this is becoming more difficult with the increase
in the number of students.
Since Independence no investment has been made in the upgrading
and expansion of the physical infrastructure of the Faculty which in 1974
was already unable to serve as it should the total number of students at



- 43 -
Annex 2-5
Page 7 of 9
that time. The situation is becoming worse now that the number of students
is approaching that of 1974 becauset
-    the weekly class hours have increased;
-    subjects like mathematics are now being taught at the Faculty
while in 1974 they were taught in other buildings (that no
longer belong to EMU).
This means that, even for the level of 800 students, some construction is
needed to accommodate them:
-    construction of a small one-floor building to install all the
equipment needed for the mechanical workshop and carpentry;
and
-    adding one more floor to the existing buildings of the
Departments of Electrical Engineering and Mechanical
Engineering.
These two construction projects are simple and can be executed with little
difficulty, as long as funds are available. Most of the existing buildings
need maintenance and some repair work.
When the Faculty increases the number of students from 800 to
1,100, then new buildings will have to be added. The Faculty plans to
concentrate all the classrooms, amphitheaters, study rooms and other
pedagogical areas in two new buildings - The Interdisciplinary Complex,
each with four floors and one basement floor, for which the Faculty is
already preparing the preliminary design - leaving the Departments'
buildings for laboratories, design rooms and staff offices.
i their As for the supporting services, there was an enormous degradation
in their functioning due to the lack of investment funds, even in small
amounts. The situation became critical in three sectors:
-    internal telephone network
-    photocopier
-    vehicles
The internal telephone network is a basic necessity if one
considers the location of the Faculty, the need for permanent contacts with
enterprises and other institutions, and the physical dispersion of the
services and Departments of the Faculty. The existing network cannot be
repaired and a new one is urgently needed.
There are no textbooks easily available for the students to buy
and so, the Faculty must have a well equipped and organized copying sector,
to reproduce lecture notes and texts written by its professors to sell to
the students. in this way, when he graduates, the student will have a
small technical library of his own. So, the Faculty has a tremendous need
for some good photocopying machines and also paper and other consumable
materials to use them.
The Faculty has only two Land-Rovers at its service, in a
situation where the public transport is completely unreliable. This



- 44 -
Annex 2-5
Page 8 of 9
hampers the capacity to organize and maintain a permanent program of study
visits by the students to industrial plants, construction sites and so on,
which are very important in the student's training, allowing them to become
familiar with the different industries, their functions and problems.
Also, the work that can be done by the professors in support of the
industries becomes more difficult. The Faculty needs cars and at least
four mini-buses when it reaches the maximum number of students. Concerning
maintenance and stocks, the problem has been touched in the preceding
points, when equipment, physical infrastructure and supporting services
were being analyzed. In fact, sometimes the equipment is there and stands
idle just because a small spare or the powder for the photocopying machine
is missing. This happens frequently when these components of maintenance
and stocks are bought in hard currency. To avoid these situations, it is
important that the Faculty can dispose every year of a small fund to
guarantee the timely purchase of all the materials needed for maintenance
and the stocks of consumable products.
The Production Unit of the Faculty of EnRineerinR
In 1987, the Faculty of Engineering decided to create a Production
Unit (UP) to be in charge maiuly of the following activitiess
a) Management of consulting activities to be done by the
different Departments under contracts with industrial
enteprises and Government institutions;
b) Project management of industrial and civil construction design
done at each Department or by integrated teams;
c) Organization of refresher and post-graduate short courses for
engineers of the industrial sector;
d) Production and edition of technical manuals;
e) Selling of results of research projects to the industrial
sector.
The UP would allow, in this way, that:
- the teaching staff would be in permanent contact with
practical problems corresponding to a professional
activity;
-  the Faculty would increase its contribution to the
development of the country;
- there would be constant feedback to test the quality and
adequacy of the courses offered by the Faculty;
- the financial constraints that strongly affect the normal
running of the Faculty would be somewhat alleviated.



- 45 -
Annex 2-5
Page 9 of 9
Although in existence for only a year, the UP has already proved
as a very valuable tool to achieve the objectives that were defined and its
activity is being constantly expanded.
The status of the UP is equal to the other four Departments of the
Paculty. It has a Director and a Deputy Director and its permanent staff
is composed of only two technicians and two administrative officers because
UP is a kind of umbrella for organization and promotion, the executive work
being carried out at the Departments levels.
In 1987, the main contracts managed by the UP were the following:
a) Consultancy fort
- SOGERE (brewery)
- National Water Authority
- UDAH (dam construction)
- National Directorate for Roads and Bridges
b) Civil engineering design
- Pemba airport
- 2M brewery
- Hachava church and school
c) Industrial design
- Secretary of state for Agricultural Hydraulics (mech.
engineering)
- STEIA (neech. engineering)
- Cashew national enterprise (drying cashew nuts)
- PROSUL (ceramics production)
d) Post-grad courses
- Hydrology and Hydraulics of Water Resources
- Economic analysis of engineering projects (3 courses)
The financial results for 1987 showed a gross income of about 11.6
million meticais with direct expenses of about 3.5 million meticais, giving
a profit of about 8 million meticais. The profit was used to support
expenditures of the Faculty and the Departments and to give production
prizes to professors and medium level staff involved in the projects to
stimulate them to increase their productivity.



- 46 -
Annex 2-6
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Unit Costsl/
Index
(-yearj   Proportion
Direct    Adminis-                        Primary     of GNP
Cost     tration   Hostel    Total       PUpl1)    per capita 2/
Primary 1 - 4                  1,360         403        -      1,763        1.0         0.28
Secondary 5-9                  4,607       1,365      894      6,866        3.9         1.10
Secondary 10-11               17,608       5,215    2,338    25,161        14.3         4.00
Technical and vocational      21,773       6,449    1,588    29,810        16.9         4.80
Extra-university
teacher training            29,229      8,658    3,711    41,598         23.6         6.60
University                   156,658      46,371        -   203,029       115.2        32.40
SOURCEs  UNESCO (Duvisusart), March 1986
1/   In view of the large disparity between the official exchange rate in 1986
(US$1 - 40 meticais) and the parallel market rate (US$l - 2,000 meticais),
these costs have not been translated into Dollar terms. The table shows
proportions among different levels of education.
2/   GNP per capita in 19P4 was 6,264 meticais; therefore, the costs of educating
one primary student was the equivalent of 282 of per capita income, one
secondary student 11O0, etc.



- 47 -
Annex 2-7
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Education Operat4.onal Budget (1984) 1,
(Actual expenditure in millions of Metieais)
STAFF
LEVELJXIND OF
EDUCATION                         Non-               MATERIALS    TOTAL   PERCENT
Teaching   Teaching   Total
Priaary 1-4                     1,529        6      1,535        7.7      1,542.7    39.7
Secondary 5-11                   411        37        478       73.0        551.0    14.7
Adult Education                    68        6         74        7.0         81.0     2.1
Subtotal General Education     2,038        49      2,087       87.7      2,174.7    55.9
Technical and Vocational          170       51        221       55.5        276.5     7.1
Teacher Training                   52       17         69       63.0        132.0     3.4
Higher Education                  174        -        174      126.0        300.0     7.7
Subtotal                         396        68        464      244.5        708.5    18.2
TOTAL EDUCATIONAL               2,434      117      2,551      332.2      2,883.2    74.1
EXPENDITURE
Central Administration              -      152        152      324.0        476.0    12.2
Provincial Administration           -      204        204      174.0        378.0     9.7
Subtotal Administration             -      356        356      498.0        854.0    22.0
Hostels                             -       65         65       87.8        152.8     3.9
GRAND TOTAL                    2,434       538      2,972      918.0     3,890.0   100.0
1/  Does not include expenditure in the province of Cabo Delgado, which was not
available.
2/   These costs are included in the expenditure on teaching staff.
SOURCEt UNESCO (Duvieusart), March 1986.



MOZAiIISE
EDUCATION AND MAWPOWER DEVELOPMRNT PROJECT
Doficit of New Classroom  in Maputo Cit. Area/
Total   Enrollment Plac. per Total Pl.No. of req.                          Deficit            Classroom---      Rehabiltation
District Population  Age 7-11   Clasroom   No of  per class, classroom    Exist. Classr. W. Bank   Other  Without
Number      (1987)      (1967)    per shift  Shift.  (3) x (4)   (2) / (6)    Class.  (6)-(7)  Project Source    Cinxn.   Major  Minor
(1)            (2)         (a)        (4)     (6)          (6)          (7)    (6)       (9)     (16)      (11)        (12)  (18)
1       164,441       28,827      U          2         1i           233       194      39        -         82        7         -     194
2       152,510       17,651      so         2         la           176       15S      18         6        if        2         4     154
8       131,911       18,8s U                2         1i           184        79      55        U8        -        19         9      76
4       1",977        14,182      so         2         1i           141        90      51        25        22        4         5      es
5       127,2U        19,170      W          2         1i           192       102     9O         46        26       24        14      so
6        66,644        9,994      U          2         169         Is         87     a6          28       28        7         2      85
7        99,468       11,176      U          2         1it          112        s6      so        89        17        -         6      U
8       119,447       14,961      so         2         1it          1U6       103      47        26        15        6        14      99
TOTAL      965,048      123,796      U          2         1"        1,280       619     419       266       144       69        54     76"
p/  Pilot experience applied In Maputo City area, to be extended to other areas in future phases.
(1)  Sixteen percent of the total population Is estimated to be aged 7 to 11 .._ar old.
(2)  The Governmnt has not taken a final decision about the Integration of grades 6th and 7th wlthin the primary level of ducation,
therefore enrollment aged 12 and 13 was not included.
(3) The Government has established a limit of 6U places per classroom per shift, to obtain an acceptable pedagogical lovel. At present
average figure 1 about 62.
(4) The Government has organized the primary education system in two shifta. At proen t, most of the schools are operating In three
shifts.
(9)  Project wIll bulId 161 out of 2e6 classrooms needed In theos dltriects and shown in this table. Total 181 clasroos are shared as
follows:  12 new schools (120 classrooms) and 11 oxisting schools to be exi4aeded (61 new clsasroom).  See Annex 8-2.
(10) Other sources are European Economic Comunity. Swiss Governoment, Sweden International Development Agency (SIDA), National Funds,
Religious Institutions, etc.
(11) Schools located 1n sall sites, difficult to bi expended.
(12) Rehabilitation of classroom  which exist In the schools to be extended.
(18) Rehabiltation of classrooms not Included In any financing  ource.
w



- 49 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Neiahborhoods in the City of Maputo
Where Schools will be Constructed and Repaired
* I. NEW SCHOOLS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
Urban District           Neighborhood           Number of
No.                   (name)             Classrooms
3                Maxaquene D                10
3                Polana Canico B            15
4                Hulene B                   10
4                Mavalane                   10
5                Inhagoia B                 15
5                Bagamoyo                   15
6                Infulene D                 10
6                Boquisso                    5
6                1 de Maio                   5
7                Bunhica                    10
7                Sao Damanso                 5
7                Cingatela                   5
7                Matola Gare                15
8                Liberdade B                15
TOTAL               145
II. EXISTING SCHOOLS TO BE REHABILITATED AND EXPANDED
Urban                         Existing            Number of Classrooms
District     Neighborhood      Schools             New   To Be Repaired
(No.)         (name)          (name)
2        Aeroporto A        Unidade 19            6           4
3        Maxaquene B        Unidade 25            6           4
3        Mafalala          Unidade 22            5            5
4        Hulene B           Unidade 8             5           5
5        Jorge Dimitrov    Unidade 29            5            5
5        25 de Junho        Primaria Rua 7       5            5
5        Luis Cabral        Unidade 5            6            4
6        Khongolote         Khongolote           8            2
7        Tsalala            Tsalala              4            6
8        Matola D           Matola D              6           4
8        Matola F           Gungunhan             5          10
TOTAL            61           54



- 50 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
III. SCHOOLS BEING CONSTRUCTED BY GOVERNMENT
(to be financed retroactively by the project)
Urban District          Neighborhood                     Number of
No.                  (name)                        Classrooms
1                Guasene                             3
3                Polana Canico "Al                  18
4                12 de Outubro                      18
4                Primaria das F.P.L.M.1/             S
5                Inhagoia "A*                       13
6                Acordos de Lusaka                  15
6                luhalaze                            4
7                Hathlemele                          4
7                Machara - Bedene                    3
7                Bunhica (Mm. 15)                    5
8                Thnduru                             5
8                Liberdade A                         5
TOTAL                        98
1/ Forcas Populares de Liberacao de Mocambique.



- 51 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 6
MOZAMBIIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
School Building Construction Costs
(Excluding Contingencies)
Prototype of 5 Classrooms:
Acconmodation Units             Areas (Sq. Mt.)         Costs (US$'000)         Cost in
Millions
of Meticais
Type                  No.     Unit        Total       Unit       Total         Total
Classrooms               5       60          300         0.22       66.0
Walls (7Z)               -        -           21          0.22       4.5
Circulation (251)        _        -           75         0.10        7.5
Total Classrooms                             396                    78.0 1|        35.10
Administration           1       10           10         0.22        2.2
Teachers' Room           1       10           10         0.22        2.2
Director's Office        1       10           10         0.22        2.2
Storage                  1       10           10         0.22        2.2
Toilets                  1       40           40         0.26       10.4
Open Roofed Area         1       60           60         0.18       10.8
Subtotal                                     140                    30.0
Walls (7Z)                                    10         0.22        2Z
Circulation (251)                             35         0.10        3.5
Total Administration
and Others                                 185                    35.7           16.07
Site Development                                                    40.0           18.00
GRAND TOTAL                                  581                   153.7           69.17
1/  Cost per new classroom             = US$15,600
Cost per classroom to be repaired - US$5,500 (35% of US$15,600)



- 52 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 6
Prototype of 10 Classrooms:
Accoimmodation Units           Areas (Sq. Mt.)         Costs (USS'O00)         Cost in
Millions
of Meticais
Type                 No.     Unit        Total       Unit      Total          Total
Classrooms              10      60          600         0.22     132.0
Walls (7S)              -         -          42         0.22       9.0
Circulation (25Z)       -        -          150         0.10      15.0
Total Classrooms                            792                  156.0 11        70.20
Administration          1        15          15         0.22       3.3
Teachers' Room          1       20           20         0.22       4.4
Director Office         1        10          10         0.22       2.2
Storage                 1        15          15         0.22       3.3
Toilets                 1       80           80         0.26      20.8
Open Roofed Area        1       60           60         0.18       10.8
Subtotal                                    200                   44.8
Walls (71)                                   14         0.22        3.1
Circulation (25Z)                            50         0.10       5.0
Total Administration
and Others                                264                   52.9           23.81
Site Development                                                  40.0           18.00
GRAND TOTAL                               1,056                  248.9          112.01
I/ Cost per new classroom             - US$15,600
Cost per classroom to be repaired - US$5,500 (351 of US$15,600)



- 53 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 6
Prototype of 15 Classroomm:
Accommodation Units              Areas (Sq. Mt.)         Costs (US$9000)          Cost in
Millions
of Meticais
Type                  No.     Unit        Total       Unit       Total         Total
Classrooms               15      60          900         0.22      198.5
Walls (7Z)                                    63         0.22       13.5
Circulation (252)                            225         0.10       22.5
Total Classrooms                           1,188                   234.0 11       105.30
Administration            1      15           15         0.22        3.3
Teachers' Room            1      20           20         0.22        4.4
Director Office           1      15           10         0.22        2.2
Storage                   1      15           15         0.22        3.3
Toilets                   1     120          120         0.26       31.2
Open Roofed Area          1      80           80         0.18       14.4
Subtotal                                     260                    58.8
Walls (7Z)                                    18         0.22        4.0
Circulation (252)                             65         0.10        6.5
Total Administration
and Others                                 343                    69.3          31.19
Site Development                                                    40.0           18.00
GRAND TOTAL                                1,531                   343.3          154.49
1/  Cost per new classroom             - US$15,600
Cost per classroom to be repaired - US$5,500 (35Z of US$15,600)



- 54 -
Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 6
School Buildini Construction Cost
(excluding Contingencies)
New Schools
-_____------Costs--------------
-----Schools----      ----US$000-----  MHticais Million
Accommodation Unit    Type       Number      Unit       Total   Unit       Total
Administration        Type 5*       4        35.7       142.8   16.1         64.3
Services  and         Type 10       5        52.9       264.5   23.8        119.0
Communal Areas        Type 15       5        69.3       346.5   31.2        155.9
Subtotal                           14                   753.8              339.2
Classrooms            New         145        15.6    2,262.0    7.0      1,017.9
Rehab.      -
Subtotal                          145                 2,262.0            1,017.9
Site Development                   14        40.0       560.0   18.00      252.0
GRAND TOTAL                                          3,575.8             1,609.1
* Type 5 meanst School with 5 Classrooms



- 55 -
Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 6
School Building Construction Cost
(excluding Contingencies)
Schools to be Substituted
------------Costs----------
-----Schools----      ----US$'000----   Meticais Million
Accomodation Unit    Type        Number      Unit      Total   Unit        Total
Administration        Type 5*      -         35.7               16.1
Services  and         Type 10      10        52.9      529.0   23.8        238.0
Comunal Areas         Type 15       1        69.3       69.3   31.2         31.2
Subtotal                           11                  598.3               269.2
| Classrooms          New          61        15.6      951.6    7.0        428.2
Rehab.      54         5.5      297.0    2.5        133.7
I Subtotal                        115                1,248.6               561.9
Site Development                   11        40.0      440.0   18.0        198.0
GRAND TOTAL                                          2,286.9             1,029.1
* Type 5 means: School with 5 classrooms



- 56 -
Annex 3-3
Page 6 of 6
School Buildint Construction Cost
(excluding Contingencies)
New and Substituted Schools
-Costs-
-----Schools----       ----US$'000----   Meticais Million
Accommodation Unit    Type*       Number      Unit       Total   Unit        Total
Administtation         Type 5        4         35.7      142.8   16.1          64.2
Services  and          Type 10      15        52.9       793.5   23.8        357.1
Communal Areas         Type 15       6        69.3       415.8   31.2         187.1
Subtotal                            25                 1,352.1               608.4
Classrooms             New         206         15.5    3,213.6    7.0      1,446.1
Rehab.      54          5.5       297.0    2.5        133.7
Subtotal                           260                 3,510.6             1,579.8
Site Development                    25        40.0    1,000.0   18.0         450.0
GRAND TOTAL                                            5,862.7             2,638.2
*   Type refers to prototype schools consisting of 5, 10, or 15 classrooms



- 57 -
Anne= 3-4
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trainina Plan for School Principals and ManaRers
Participantst 120 school principals
120 deputy pedagogical principals
120 deputy administrative principals
Formats        Each participant will attend at least 2 three-day seminars
during each of 3 years on the following topicst
s schools organization
s chool maintenance practices
- use of water and latrines
- organization of nutrition and health projects
- supervision of teachers in the classroom
- use of textbooks
- school finances
For each one of the one-week seminars a special module will be prepared,
printed and distributed in advance. The internationally-recruited
consultant will work with local specialists in preparation of the modules.
Local specialists will be paid about US$500 for each module prepared.



- 58 -
Annex 3-5
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
School of Engineerina EquiDment List
Costs in
USS
Electronic laboratories:
-  Laboratories for eight working places each,           )
including incorporated furniture, the wiring          )
and the electrical power distribution                 )473,000
- Materials, accessories and consumable parts            )
for two years of operation (122 per year)             )
General Workshop:
- Machines-tools and other equipment for                 )
workshops of eight working places each,               )
with installation and electrical feeding              )649,000
-  Spare parts and materials for two years of            )
operation (15Z per year)                              )
Micro-computers:
- Micro-computers equivalent and compatible
with IBM PC AT type                               5    88,000
-  Software for engineering applications            20    52,800
- Materials and paper (set)                          1     7,700
Reprographic equipment:
-  Offset machine with accessories, plate maker    1   )
- Word processor                                     1)
-  Typewriters                                       2   )
-  Photocopying machines                             3   )116,600
-  Stencil cutter                                    3)
-  Stencil reproducer                                3   )
- Video camera                                       1   )
- Magnetoscope                                       1   )
-  Video monitors                                    4)
-  Retro projectors                                  6   ) 50,000
-  Slide projectors                                  6   )
-  Series of technical slides                        1   )
-  Set of technical transparencies                   1   )
-  24 x 36 camera with accessories                   1   )
- Model of self-study booth with visualization,
coordinated sound and different technical
sound and film programs                          1      20,000
-  Provision of technical manuals for library        1     30,000
- Materials, films, products, photographic paper
and spare parts for two years                    1      39,600
-  Sarvice car and two mini-buses for study trips  1       80.000
Total                    1,606,700
Furniture                                                  75.000
GRAND TOTAL              1,681,700



- 59 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 4
MtOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND HANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Accomnodation Units
(Architectural Brief)
Laboratory of Electronics
(New Floor)
Total     Area per
No. of     area       place
No.   Accommodation Unit                  Places      Cm2)        (m2)
1     Telecommunication Laboratory          8        81.0      10
2     Analogic Electronics Laboratory       8        98.6      12.3
3     Digital Electronics and
microprocessors Laboratory           8        60.8       7.6
4     Control Laboratory                    8        61.6       7.7
5     Corridors                             -        71.4        -
6     Staff rooms                           -        62.3        -
7     Storage rooms                         -        24.5        -
8     Staircase                             -        25.8        -
9     Walls                                 -        19.4        -
10     WC (2 floors)                         -        34.4        -
TOTAL                                        539.4



- 60 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 4
Architectural Brief
Workshop
(Remodelation)
Total     Area per
No. of     area       place
No.   Accomodation Unit                   Places    _c22
1     Locksmith Laboratory                  a         61.6     10.2
2     Machine-Tools Laboratory              a        117.8     14.6
Section Lathes
Section Milling
3     Prefabrication Laboratory             a        139.7     17.3
Section Welding
Section Foundry
Section Blading
4     Automechanics Laboratory              8        122.0     15.2
5     Technicians rooms                     -         36.8       -
6     Storage rooms                         -         38.0       -
7     Walls and Corridors                   -        105.9       -
TOTAL AREA                                    641.8



53S           *          0                   S.                  497                 1370
,  ,                  1                    t~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tt  ^t   
12-.0                                     7.90
* 12 80      LASORATORWO 0!DE               1-
SISTEMAS DI01TAiS E. 7            -              LA3!SATO     CC
LABORATORIO  DE   ELECIRONICA                     oIC0S                                                       I o   K
*   t;  -  v . i < >. __._ . ef-1 -i---t 
-i-~~~~~r
ARAi 372           ,' I                          
,~~$*             --                         4111.1.2CM  8    **U~~~~~~~GAINETE 7
LABORATORIO  DE   TELEC0MUUMCA;'                                                                          f..
rw
GABi  IIT1    GADWEINETE   GABiNETE 3 iGSNTE 1.   GAWMETE S               ANT 
M -0      - _5 s      3- T 2 4 5                                     _
53S                   5.18                  s_________4__97________________ 
LAIBORATOIlIO *DE  ELECTR6NiCA - PLANTA&kGERAL
N
0'1
HI J%



'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO de *                       d-*    F
340860                     ZO         6400               .9-             6.70. 
Gowo 60                                             cI            I              e     tkeeo   | A W ATR^TiO DE
.    .,    | Socc& de ten4s  >             ,. ., ^                      .J   MECANiCA-AUTO
l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed d. fw#d                                       LAOAOROD
LABORATORiO                LAORARIOR  DE
S ||;im  I    i    ,DE                                         PREFABRiCACAO                                   N
-               ~~~~~SERRAUKARIA 
_  G     ~LABORATdRIO PE         ERLA   ,.___ 
FEI!W.IEN1AS         .
I~~~~~ I
w1t
P. ..  _
444                            4                                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
,I



- 63 -
Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOVER DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for Study on Mother-Tongue Languages
The study will:
(a) compile data on languages spoken by children in Mozambique
when they first enter school;
(b) identify status of alphabets and gramari for the languages
spoken in the country and work being done in each language
(i.e., titles, adult courses, etc.);
(c) gathir information on the results of bilingual programs
carried out in other countries;
(d) select one or a series of bilingual models that could be
adapted, propose mechanisms for introducing these bilingual
programs in Mozambique and estimate its short- and long-term
costs
(e) review experiences in providing education in mother-tongue
languages to illiterate adults in order to expand adult
literacy programs and apply lessons learned in adult
education to primary schooling.
The study should be conducted in cooperation with NELIMO (the
language institute of UEK).



- 64 -
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
For Study on Financing of the Education System
The study will:
(a) analyze budgetary requirements for the education sector and
estimate the gap between requirements and government
allocations to the sector;
(b) make recommendations on efficiency measures and cost recovery
mechanisms that would allow closing the gap between
requirements and feasible budgetary allocations.
Specifically the study will:
(a) update budget data prepared in the 1986 study by Duvieusart;
and analyze disaggregated current expenditures, paying
attention to the relationship between personnel and non-
personnel expenditures
(b) in a selected sample of about 20 primary schools collect data
on:
- teachers net pay levels
- student contribution to school fees
- cost to parents of sending their children to school
- Government direct expenditures on maintenance, materials,
supplies
- capital costs
(c) based on data collected at the school level estimate unit
costs of primary and secondary education;
(d)  estimate unit costs of teacher training, technical,
commercial and agricultural schools with data collected at
the school level;
(e) estimate unit costs of university education by program of
studies;
(f) project unit costs of education by level for three
consecutive years, or required government allocations, under
different hypothesis (with and without salary increases, with
and without enrollment expansion);
(g) estimate the gap between projected requirements and feasible
Government allocations to the sector;
(h) recommend efficiency measures and cost recovery mechanisms.



- 65 -
Annex 3-7
Page 3 of 3
TRM    or itzFrBCR
For Zducation Sector Mnasiement Study
Detailed terms of reference are found in the document entitled
eProjecto da Racionaligacao do Aparelho Administrativo da EducacaoZ found
in project files.
The study vills
(a) assess present administrative structure and procedures
(b) propose more efficient distribution of roles between central,
provincial and district levels
(c) identify training needs at all levels of the education
system.



- 66 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIOUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Proiect Obiective         Proiect Activities         Indicators
1. Increasing literacy    a) Improve physical        -Percentage of children
and numeracy among         facilities              sitting in classroom at
primary school                                     a desk
children                                          -Time spent in learning
b) Train school           -Number of principals
managers and prin-       nd school manaCers
cipals to improve       'Lained
school organization   -Changes in school
practices               organization
c) Provide essential      -Number of schools
school supplies        that received supplies
2. Strengthen the          a) Revise curricula       -Number of students
quality and                and strengthen          following revised
relevance of training     management at CIM        curricula
-Changes in school
management practices
following use of
administrative manual
b) Improve physical       -Students using new
facilities and pro-    equipment
vide equipment to      -Increase in revenue
School of              producing activities
Engineering             of the Faculty of
Engineering
c) Revise curricula,      -Students following
train staff and         revised curricula
provide books to       -Number of staff
School of              trained
Economics              -Usage of books by
students



- 67 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 2
Proiect Oblectlve         rroiect Activiti est.mw&
3. Improve financial       a) Train budget           -Number of budget
officers               officers trained
-Revisions made in
budget preparation
activities at local
level
b) Use manpower           -number of staff
planning model          trained in use of
model
-seminars organized to
analyze results
-policies which have
resulted from use of
model
c) Undertake studies      -number of studies
undertaken
d) Establish project      -description of
management unit and    activities undertaken
strengthen school      by units
construction unit



- 68 -
Annez 3-9
MOZAMBIQUK
EDUCATION AND MbPOAfEV DEVELOPIONT PPEOJEC
PROFORMA
List of Staff and Salaries
MonthlI
Number       Salary1l      Incentive2/
Government        IDA
Management
Director                                1           78,750          150
Assistant Director                      1           75,600           120
Director's Secretary                    1           33,750            70
Administration/Finance
Administrator (Accountant)              1           61,425          120
Accountant                              1           58,275           100
Procurement Officer I                   1           48,262           80
Procurement Officer II                  1           43,875           80
Secretaries                             2           45,000          100
Drivers                                 2           40,500           80
Security Guard                          1            7,875           40
Janitor                                 1            7,875           40
Technical Department
Head of Department (Civil Engineer)    1            67,725          120
Construction Supervisors                2          116,550          200
TOTAL                               16         685,462         1,300
1/   In Meticais.
2/   In U.S. Dollars.



- 69 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROFORMA
Costs for Furniture, Equipment. Materials and Vehicles
Mt
US$       ('000,000)
Furniture
Officer Desks (9)                    5,400
Filing Cabinets (5)                  1,500
Secretary Desks (2)                    800
Architectural Design Furniture       1,400
Total                                9,100           4.10
Equipment
Xerox Machine and Stabilizer         10,000
Micro Computer                       10,000
Typewriters (2)                       3,000
Calculators                           1,000
Air Conditioner and Ventilators       3,500
Other Expenses
(telephone, telex, etc.)              8.500
Total                                36,000         16.20
Materials
Paper                                 6,000
Other Materials                       4.000
Total                                10,000          4.50
Vehicle Procurement
Mini Bus                             25,000
Vehicle - 4WD                        20,000
Vehicles (2)                         30.000
Motorcycles (4)                       8.000
Total                                83,000         37.35
Vehicle Maintenance
6 Vehicles at US$10,000 each         60,000         27.00



- 70 -
Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 2
List of Furniture. EauiDment and Vehicles
To bc Acquired throush PPF Funds
(US$)
Total           .PPF
Furniture
Officer Desks (9)                    5,400            5,400
Filing Cabinets (5)                  1,500            1,500
Secretary Desks (2)                    800              800
Architectural Design Furniture       1.400            1.400
Total                                9,100            9,100 1/
Eauivment
Xerox hachine and Stabilizer        10,000           10,000
Micro Computer                      10,000
Typewriters (2)                      3,000            3,000
Calculators                          1,000            1,000
Air Conditioner and Ventilators      2,500
Other Expenses
(telephone, telex, etc.)             8.500            8500
Total                               36,000           26,000
Materials
Paper                                6,000            3,000
Other Materials                      4.000            1.200
Total                               10,000            4,200
Vehicle Procurement
Mini Bus                            25,000
Vehicle - 4VD                       20,000           20,000
Vehicles (2)                        30,000           30,000
Motorcycles (4)                      a.000            8.000
Total                               83,000           58,000
Vehicle Maintenance
6 Vehicles at US$10,000 each        60,000            4,000
Summary
Furniture                                             9,100
Equipment/Materials                                  30.200
Total                                                39,300
Vehicle Procurement                                  S8,000
Vehicle Insurance, etc.                               4.000
Total                                                62,000
1/ Funds included in PPF only.



- 71 -
Annex 3-11
HOZAMEIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
City of Maputo School Construction Office
Cost6 for Equipment. Vehicles, Salaries and Operational Costs
Mt
USS       ('000.000)
Equipment
Design Equipment                          6,000
Photography and Reproduction             14,000
Topography                                3,000
Tools for OBrigadas* (repair teams)       7.000
Total                                    30,000         12.00
Vehicle Procurement
Truck (7 ton)                            26,800
Vehicle 4WD                              20,000
Motorcycles (4)                           3,200
Total                                    50,000         20.00
Vehicle Maintenance
One truck, one pick-up and
motorcycles                            20,000          8.00
Salaries and Operational Costs
Salaries and Operational Costs of GATECE
financed by the Government were estimated
as follows:
Salaries                                    700/mo.      0.28
Operational Costs                           300/mo.      0.12



MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AN) MANPOWER DEVELOPUENT
PROJECT COST SUuARV
(METICAIS Million)             (US$ '00031                        Total
-----%'- --------------   ---------     --------      X Foratgn   Base
Local  Foreign Total      Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
A. PRIMARY EDUCATION                      t.lS0.6 2.50t.7 3,652.3  2,556.9   5S9.4  8,t16.3              68       55
B  MANPOWER REQUIREMENlS
I. COIWERCIAL INSTITUTE                   37.5   343.6   381.S    83.3    763.6    846.9             90         6
2. SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS                    26.0   326.5   352.5      57.8    72S.6    783.4           93         5
3. SCt1DOL OF ENGINEERING                106.3   781.5   893.8    236.1 t .750.1  1.956 3            as        13
Sub-1otal MNPOWER REQUIREMENTS              169.t 1,457.7 1.627.4    377.2  3,239.3  3.616.6            90        25
C. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
t. SECTOR PLANNING                       t44.4   341.9   486 4    320.9    759.9  1,060.8            70         7
2. PROJECT M"NAGEMtENT                   179.3   400.5   587.8    398.4    907.8  t.306.2            70         9
3. PROOECT PREPARATION FACILITY              -   288.0   288.0          -    640.0    640.0          100        4
Sub-Total PLANNING iNDO MANAGEMENT          323.7 1,038.4 1.362.1    7 9.3  2,307.7  3,027.0             76       21
Total BASELINE COSTS                        t.644 0 4.997.9 6,641.9  3.653.4 11.106 4 14.759 6             75      100
Physical Contingsnclas                     183.0   S99.1  782.0   406.6  1.331.3  1.737 9               77       t2
Price Conttrngncles                        t50.7   459.4   610.1    334.9  1,020.8  1,355.7             75        9
_-   -    -- - -   -- - -   ------   -- -- -   -- -- -  -- - - -   .   .....
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1.977.7 6.056.3 8.034.0  4,394.9 13,458.5 t7,853.3             75      t21
March 24. 1988 17:00
00 1
oQX
a0l
His-_
Ni



MDZAMIS UE
EOUCAT ION AND AMANOWER DEVELOPMENT
Su mm,ry Account by Project Component
(METICAIS NtiIIIiln
PLANI80a AND1 MANAEMENT
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS----------------h*t&
-----------------------                                PROJCT               Cont lnMlcles
PRItMARkY  COEIRCIAL  SCHOOL OF   SCHOOL OF    SECTOR    P80.jCT    PREPARATION                -------
EDUCATION  INSTITUTE   ECONMICS  ENOIMEERING  PLAMNING  MANAGEMENT   FACILITY,   Total            II   Aeunwt
I. INVESTENUT COSTS
COWSTRucTION                                                  2.280.5            -                      23.3         -        106.0             - 25120.8   10.0   252.1
SITE DEVELOPMENT                                                470.3            ---                                           81.0             -    SSI.3   10.0    55.1
ARCHITECTURAL FEES                                               S6.3             -                      4.8                      -             -     1.0   10.0      5.1
COWLETION OF ODVERNOET FINANCED SCHOOLS                         295.5--                                                -                        -    285.5   t0.0    28.1
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                            3.1 1 4             -          -120 I                           189.0             -3.428.1   10.0   342.9
B. FURNITURE . EQUIPMIENT AND MATERIALS
FURNITURE                                                        114.3         6.3           -          33.8                   22.5             -    176.8   30.0    35.4
EOlUIPPIENT                                                       18.0        50.1        13.5         6.46 7     51.3         26 6             -    806.1   20.0   161.2
MATERIALS AND TEXTBOOKCS                                        272.3         73.1         9.9          31.5          -4.5                      -    391.3   20.0    78.3
VEHICLE PROCIREMENW                                               4.5             -          -          36.0                   St5.$            -     82.3   20.0    18.5
Sub-Total FURNITURE . EQUIPIIENT AND MATERIALS                     400.0         129.6       23.4         747.9      50.3        105.3             -  1.466.1   20.0   293.3
C. TECHI8CAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND TRAINING
EXPERTS AMS CONSULTANTS                                          45 9        121.5       236.3             -      71.1         54.0             -    528.8   10 0    52 9
tWIlTED NIATIONS VOLUNTEERS                                          -            -          -                                  1.0             -     8l.0   10.0      aII
FELLOWSHIPS                                                          -        79.4        77.8                     7.6            --    164.?   10.0    1.
STUDY IR3PS                                                      25.2         28 4           --                   22 5         11.0             -      4.1   10.0      9
TRAINING COURSES                                                 27.0          4 5           ----                                        -            31.1   10.0      3 2 
STUDIES                                                              -           -           --                  315.0            -                  315.0   10.0    3I.5
Sub0-Total TECIMICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND TRAINING              98.1        233.7       314.0-                  416.2        153.0             -  1.21S.0   10.0   120.5
0. INCREIIENTAL SALARIES                                    -           -            -                 -        10.2             -      10 2   10.0      1.0
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY--    -                                                                 -                 -           -         2881.0    298.0    0 0     0 0
F. LOCAL SALARIES PAID BT GOVERNMENT                                    -4.3                  4.3           4.3       5.4         4S.4             -     63.7  tO 0       6.4
S. BUILDING OPERATION AND MAINTENANE                                    -         13.5       10.8          13.5       13.5           -             -     51.3   10 0      51I
H. SCHOOL MAINTENANCE                                                32.4            -          -             -          -        37 7             -     70 1   10 0      7 0
I. OPERATING EXPENSES                                                 1.4           --                                            47.3             -     48 6   10 0      4 9
Total INVESTMSENT COSTS                                             3.8'".1        311.1       352.5         8938a    486.4         587.0         230.fl  6.641 9   It a   732 0
Totoal BASELINE COSTS                                                3.4C'  A       381.1       352.5         893 8     486.4        587.8         388.0  6.641 9   11.8   712 0
Phyalcal Contingencies                                              406.i         51.1        37.6         16.4.2     53.8         69.3             -    782 0    0.0      0 0
Price ContIngencIes                                                 396.,3        36.8        392           15.5       14.7        41.6             -    610 I   10 9    0  2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   4.45  8       490          2.3         .133.5     554 8        704.7         288 0  8,034 0   to 6   8'18 3
loxes                                                               426 4         10.3         1.3          23.6          -        25.1                  4868a  10 3    '19 9
Foreign Exchange                                                  3.062.7        422 6       397.7       1,001.2     391.8        490.2         288 0  G.056 3   10 7   6110 I
March 24. 1988  17:00                                                                                                                                                                    i 
a m



EDUICATIlOl *J1D UMiPWIR DEVELOI UET
SRiMDlMM OF 511*RY aCCOSNiTS
(USsI '0001
Law' coats                      Physilcal Caflhlfgsixtet;              Pri~ce Cant I goeesla
Local                                 Local                                 Local
IECV  Dull.s a                         (ladI. Duties a                       UNcI  Duties &
for'. ExdIh. Taxes)   Taxes    Total   for  Exch  Taxes)  Taxes   Total    for' ExCh  Tax"S)  Tax"s   Total
..............   .........   ...   .......                                   .....   .......   .
I. INVESTIUNT COSTS
A. CIVIL NGUIC
C09TRUC? 101                                                   3.92l.2 1,120 4    560.2  5.601 6        392 I  112 0      56.0   560 2        465 a  132.1    66 6 66  4
SITE DEWELCPIIENI                                                as? 5   245 0    122 6  1.225.0         aS a   24.5      12.3   122.11        Ss 0   -'. 0      6.0    90.0
ARCHITECTURAL FEES                                                27 1    94 9      13 6    135 6         2 7    965        1 4    13 6         tI      2 4      0 6     43s
COUP ETION OF GOVRI9UNW FINaNCED SCHSIOS                         328.3   262 6      66 7    656 6        32 a   26 3       656   65.7           t0 I   9.1       2 0    20 2
Subt-Total CIVIL VMS1C                                            6.S34 I 1.722 9    761 9  7.619 0        513 4  172 2      76 2   761 9        532 9  160 6      77 I  770 5
B. FUMIVIII . EWUIPIET AM0 NaTEUIAES
FuU Tulle                                                        157 2   IRS65      39.     393 0        3# 4   3923       7 9    7960         IV O    21 3      423    4260
E0DIPIUMT                                                      t.7016    9 9.6         -  1.791 4       240 4   17.9         -   35163        t46 2    7 7         -   152 9
NATERIALS AM6 IEKISOOkS                                          782 6        -    67 0    36965        15665              174   173 9         97 6   -0 0      lOSa  1096s
VEHICLE PROCUJREONT                                              205 0        -        -    20560        41 0       -         -    41 0        is I   -0 0         -    of 6
Subt-Total FtiTURE  . EQUIPMNT AM6 MATERIALS                     2.846 6   236 0    126 2  32526.9        S69 3   57.2      26 2   6SI 6        272 4   29 0      16.1   316 6
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AM6 TRAINING
EXPERTS ANDCOWULTAITS                                          1.116 3    s6o a            1.1760        lit16    69         -   117          1172    62                1234                     4
IDIITEDONaTIONS VOLUNITEERS                                      144 0    160 a              180,0        14 4    3 6        -     1610        12 2    21                is11
FELLOWSHIPS                                                      247 7     la               3660         34 6    IS a              36 6        3 4    19                 3 73
STUDV TRIPS                                                      196 6    106          -    209 0         19 9    1 0              20 9        Is92    10               20 2
TRAINING COUORSES                                                 23 0    42 0         -     70 0         26s    42          -      7 0         3 3    50                a 92
STUDIES                                                          420.0  260.0          -    700 0        42.0   26 0         -     70 0           -       -        -        -
Subt-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND TRAINING            2.254 5   445 5         - 2.700 0        22S 5   44 6          -   270 0        la? 3   17 0-  20644
0.I IcI NTAL SALARIES                                                 46      la1                22?7        0     IS a                23          069    2.2                26a
6  PUO.IECT OPAEP*3TION FAcILITY                                    640 0        -   -         640 0                   - -      -              -         -        -            -
F. LOCAL SALARIES PAID VYGVERlUENT                                      -   141.6         -     141 6           -   14 2        -     14 2            -   I54              S14
G. 1UIL01.GOPERATION A-ADAINTENANCE                                  664    45 6          -       4.         69a    4 6               It114        7 4    49          -     123
N4 SCHOOL NIIITEI4MIE                                                93 4    62 3         -      SS57        93    6 2                is116        131    6 0          -    224
I. OPIERATING ExpaNSESg                                              64 6    43 2         -    106.0         6 5    42          -    10.6          694    45          -    13
Total INVSSTNIET COSTS                                              11,106 4 2.765 3    B"6 I 14.759 9    1.331 3 206 I    101 4 1.737 9           1.020 a  242 7     92 2 1.3611 I
Total                                                                11.106 4 2.7623    a"6 I 14.7596a    1.331 3  305 I    101.4 1.737 9           1.02090  242.7     92 2 t.356 7
Marchl 24. 1906 16 69



NOlANGIOUE
EOUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
SLOMAR ACCOUNTS COST SUMARY
(METICAIS Million)             IUSS 000% X Total
----------              ------------------------- X Fore-g    ease
Local  Foreign Total      Local  Foreign   Total    E xchange    costs
. INVEStMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                                                  7S6.2 1.764 6 2.520.8  1.680.5  3.921.2  5.601 8             to       38
SITE DEVEtOPMENT                                              165.4   385.9   551 3    367 5    857 5  1.225 0            70         a
ARCHIITECTURAL FEES                                            48.8    12.2    Ci 0    10  5       27.1    135 6          20 
COMPLETION OF GOVERIENT FINANCED SCHOOLS                      147 7   147.7   295 s    328 3    328 3    656 6            so         4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                          1.118 2 2.310 4 3.428.5  2.484 6  S.134.1  7,619 0            61        52
S FURNITURE , EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
FtlNITURE                                                     f06 t    70 7   t76.8    235 8    157 2    393 0            40         3
EQUIPMENT                                                      40 3   765 8   606 1      89 6  1.701 8  1.791 4           95        12
MATERIALS AND TEXTBOOKS                                        39.1   352 I  39i.3        87 0    782.6    869.5          90         6
VEHICLE PROCUREMENT                                               -    92 3    92.3          -    205 0    205.0         ILK)         I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                            - -    - - - -   - - - - . - - -   - - - - - - - -   . . .    . . . . .
Sub-Total FURNITURE . EQUIPttENT AND MATERIALS                   185.5 1.28t 0 1.466 5    412 3  2.646 6  3.258 9             87       22
C. IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE * STUDIES AND TRAINING
EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS                                        26 4   502.3  528 8       58 8  1,116.3  t.t7s 0           95         a
UNITED NATIONS VOLUNTEERS                                      16 2    64 8    8t 0       36 0    344.0    380 0          80o 
FELLOWSHIPS                                                     8 2   15605   1647        to83    347 7    366 0          95         2
STUDV TRIPS                                                     4 7    89.3    941        10 5    198 6    209 0          95         1
TRAINING COURSES                                               Is 9    i2.6    31.5      42 0      28.0     70 0          40         0
STUD!ES                                                       1260 o   89.0   31S 0    280.0    420 0    700 0            60         5
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND TRAINtNG            200 5 1.014.5 1.215 0    44S s  2.254 5  2.700 0            84        is
0. INCREMENTAL SALARIES                                            8.2      2.0    10 2      10.1      4.5      22 7         20         0
E  PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                      -   268 0   2s8.0          -    640.0    640.0          (JO        4
F. LOCAL SALARIES PAID BY GOVERNNENT                              63 7             63.7    141 6         -    141 6                      I
G  BUILDING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                             20 5    30.8   sI 3        45 6     68.4    114 0          60          t
H. !HtoEL MtAINTENANCE                                            28.0    42.0    70 t    62.3        93 4    155.7          60          I
I OPERATING EXPENSES                                              19 4    29.2    48.6      43 2      648    108.0           60         I
lotal BASELINE COSTS                                              1t644.0 4.997 9 6.G41 9  3.653.4 11.106.4 t4,759 8              75      100
PhYsical Conttngencles                                            183 0   599.1  782 0    406 6  l.331.3  1.737 9              77       12
Price Contingencies                                               tSO.7   459.4   610.1    334.9  t.020.8  1.355 7             75        9
lato   PROJECT COSTS                                               1.977 7 6.056.3 8.034 0  4.394.9 13.458.5 t7.853 3             75       121
F.=^s...... ....... ..... s.F.  . ....  .......  ........  ......   .......
Marchs 24. 1988  17.00
Oa )



EOCATION AND MAUPOWER DEVELOPMENT
FI clIng Plan By Dtsburmaint Catgory
(US  '000)
INTERNATIONWAL
OEVELOPMEMT      IOA  PREPARATIO  GOVEREENT OF
ASSOCIATION          FACILITY          6ZAISIQUE            Total                        Local
---- --- --- -  - ------ --- --  --- --- ---  -- --- --- ---(ladl.           DutSot   &
Auomt      %        Amount                       X Amt  Amount    S       for. Exch.  Tax*s)    Tax_
........   .......                             ......  ..... ..  ..... ... .........  .......  ........
A. CIMST6UCTION                                                             7.CR4.0  90.1             -        -     46.3   9 9   8,532.6  47 *           5.926.3  1.762.1 t        44.3
S. FNITIME                                                                     446.3  30.0            -        -      49.6  tO 0       49f.9   2.9           I3.4      246.0        49.6
C. VE"ICLES . EOUIPUNMT  ND MATERIALS                                       3.614.2  96.9             -        -     117.0   3.1    3.731.2  20.9         3.4R9.9    124.3         117.0
0. TECH4ICAL ASSISTANCE . ARCHITECTS FEES AND STDIIES                        t.676.9  99.1            -        -      1S.4   0.9    1.692.3   9 5          1.460.2     2t1.7        15.4
E. FELLOWSIPS . TRANINS COUIRSES  . SEMINARS AM  STUDY TOURS               1t636.1 100.0              -           -       -     -   1.636.1   9.2         1.237.9         .2           -
F. OPEATIMS EXPENtSS AND SALARY SUPPLEMENTS                                    157.9 100.0            -        -      0.0   0.0        t57.3   0.9            63.6      74.3            -
S. PSO CT PUARATAION FACILITY                                                       -      -     640.0  tOo.0            -      -      640.0   3 6          640.0           -           -
N. GOVENM  CEN      tRI UtIOM                                                                                  -    967.2 100.0        967.2   5.4           422.2   4d.&          S1.4
Total D tsburmnt                                                              t5.2tS.3  85.2        640.0    3.6  t.9SR.0  11.2  17.853.3  00.0    13.456.1S  3.313.1    t.01.7
............ .. ................ ........  ......... .....  ........ ....... ........... .....  ........  ........  .............. .  .........  ........
......................       .......   .......  .......   .......  .....    - ------- -------  -------   -------  -------   -------  -------  -------   -------  -------   -------
MNcl, 24. *M 17:00
0
S.w
:w



-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~
N
10
INo
6S II  3668  91 '11
.... ... .... .. .. ... ...........  .......  ...... .........  .....  ........  ... . ..... ..... ......   ..... .... ..... .....
C 09C L 0 Pt 6146S C C C 9 S"'S6    9"CI  I 3*CC  3 01 0 0C 0 3991 9 69   U 60L                                                                                                                                               S     I StC01
0O                  -                0SP        0                                 C O  e oC    S8d 1631181111LIS6                                                                                                                     0
0et   0                                  *0I  0C rCC    0 1                                  O    ll cc  01a  00 01  011 0t 1om   aid I0O                                  II,d0                                     3 'sUPI tI1_00i 
I                                      "4 99  0 6L                               0 It   '911  0    384V                                                                   AN]8663(A18 AD 43  llng s(60(36 30] 684i 396t  9A143Wass
ol 06al .                           0069      (0c  StC 6                                          Vs                                     3s       3034559) "la 1%01)             "W'o' I6883nAW) 83   11  g 01  6100)  (0 011118903  (9
1C#         9S U    cis    O 0t               C all        0 rC  6 09    * cc                                                                                                  S001S  O1ILSI I NJ] SON1oIWtt11d  bp01s663 f131  tf-16
tC           90   90                           s            C o   Ca                     3100 o           9               9                                                                                     4UlIIPld    O6S6I3
6CC.                6CC91                                    .       91                   LOGO     (986                  0816,                                                                                  10811630686308*6i
0CC         0SL 01    06 SL10 o                             a CC  3I       R Cf           cO0    (M t           01 OC     t C    O                                                                           SW" VOldt dN      S 066II
C 6CC9 c              00 6 C 1 C t         0669 o     0608         I sCCCea C1CC Co0101JH*16 13 0l   083% 13108 q8S
IC            CC                         61                  61                     6110 II                          a:                                                                                      &1~IOWAl  10006 I
CLa                 CC                         aC                  IC                    690s0      1                     61                                                                                    Ion 63   061
O 09         061 S0 0  O                                    II 9   f O0                  LoGO     0(8)           Otl    000 oo  r                                                                               Pl5*t4n    t1s8d 
0ss                                  066      6a 3CK                                 C   scC         I                                     II                                                             183 n    atd SAI6 da 3111jdS
0 o9          -                       o p0    036                                 011,8 o  3641 tIt ,,9809A10 59t81s
1Ss                 16 9 -  O                                      eo it Cso,61I                                          I                                                             68 -811 69(61 SS1633 0w 60116nt  is 6    ;n 
rlots          CII t                  I          se          0 IL    o 99                sm c o     l s                                        l                                             a. srz  ttotSn   "tdo ISO  Ul"ottO lw&:
061 Ct 311C                                    161           Pl 9O9                      60C        III          C        L S1 0dI  6911  IPIIP P4    s  )t9*dZ6Ol   dIeillW 6013381P1U0
O01S           OI    ODCt   O OsN              O CC -        -O 0 0 as          1        sit        t t           Pt      op                                                                             SSdO Stl ld D!ii IDmNt
016 m0C   00C                                  CCC           C     066    * CO              6Cs    C c                                                                                  c  Id^  swu91  09  t81003669  093111
0810111686Sl3n  0  1010436  
s DWIC              0 0c  0611      is     C 10CI              I 99o   6 6 c It9                                                                                                                            6100136 aSOt 1114016
C 9      .     6 I     I Cs   I             I                   0      I           set 0     98                             6                  11I0) aid 4603                                                40811301  1011(316
38        -                31~~~~~~~ o  36                            I6    6900       691                                     Sri     600666 113  ",8 803                                     3/  MaillooMfld016SW399
3 WI           61~~ a  0 06              a3                          609           1000 o                           (SE'0I   008(,9          988 1610n1S g398 160)                                          108n16081 Spe10886
0*I0  6cc C      to                                      9                                                            610006K t01 688131, d39ds
0066s               000C   0031               06e                0 06    OCes'-         ,       91                     6                                                                                        1630 A33  Aills
o 6s9c c               0    3 o   m              6                 9o       9 9          CO  I    6                      O        C                                                    68 1888 6919 NV iS3 a         0 mU
696  361  se0t  0611                  re98   lC9          606CC    6                      C        C                                                    08 1811 69161 1        3 (4  0        16160
VW    c       z      o ls             n         G-ot   ce       n   t oe    LI'        so  cc cu lece                      06 62                                    t                          svviwmUaIg:311:1=
two1I. (0                  WCI               19 Vs39 all                   98S         6909 SsI.                                                                                       6 3848 69*99 l1313 am ll 608 91611611
0 16CC              0 Wm'98 0 3s3              6 Lao.,              a  1r9   I Su       go C       691                   06       66               110366912 3.1A 8602                               11130316603 66666913 I'. ^
tlltaw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 10463   3  Wlt
stwi s ae ttled  *-}l -||"'1 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      stoma. *N 
61603 W69O1630A    I
6 III 61303 3331                   383~~~~~~036339Al, I...0
$100s116UIs 439368Ii 31.9.
611131IOsoodw 201     IAVM



uozla8I
tnu4tio  Ame IWOwR oEnz@4los
tInls 402  PEOAGDOICSL 1In  VtiNt7S
isetaile Cost 10bl-
lUFItAiS CilIlonl
QuanlIty                                        Base cOses                       tSS Ceots In A
Unit           3      s9   90   9s    92   Total    Unit CoSa   88 CS         90    9l  92  fotal   "    89    s0    *I   92   fotal
I. IZSTTUT COSTS
A. iRaaNmG or F' SCH01  CUAtRS AN  PRINCIPALS
CCUSLIAS FoR oisIcutib tRAItItMODULES               NMN "MINH            -    6       6     -             12      3 375      - 20 3  203    0-    - 4  s        - 4S 0  45         -     - 90 0
LOCAL cOWALTUIS                                      MMO NH              -    12    12            -      24       0.275     -   2 7   2 7               5.4     -    0    0        -     -  12 0
EQU5IPMENT FOR TRAINING ISIITUUTION                                                         -                             36   5 4   90       -    -  19.0   a 0      o20   0      -     -  40 0
oDicSts AM S11.10GI aPHIC ATEeIALS                                                                         -                 -    9   1 4    -          -   22  -  2 0   3         -     -   s 
WNHICLES FORi  6RINING IMSI1TuTIINS                                                   -     -     -        i        4 5          4 5     -              4       -  g00       -           -0 o
STUDY ToUIs                                       ONE MONIH TRIP               4      4     -     -       a        3.S       -12 6  126    -            -  22   -       S    2o 0  -     -58 0
TRAINING COSf                                  OHE WEEX COURSE FOR       -     0    to    0       -      30         0 9         90       090       -27 0          -      200200200       - 60 
VEHICLE *AIIliNtiCE                                                      -     -      -     -     -        -                -  0 4   0 4 0          -   . 4     -  0 909                 -   3 0
Sub-Total TR^AIING  OF SCHOOL 939f0RS AND  PRIItCIPALS                                                                       3 6  ss *  SS a95         s 24 2   c o 123 9122    3 2l 2     -276 0
. SC. 500 SUPPLIES
SCMOO  SUt &LS                                       CLASSROOM           -  300   300   3C0   300   1.200         0 f13        33 8  33 8 338 33 5 13S 0        - 7 0  75 0  75 0  75 0 3000
NM CONS.U0u   SCHOOL SUPPLIES                                            -   300   3C0   300   300   1.200        0 S13      - 33 2   33 6333  33 3   13S 0     -  7S    750  75 0  75 0300 0
Sub-total SCHOOL SUPPLIES                                                                                                        . ....  ...  ...  ...  ..s.. 7oO    io    s    io>io    0
5.0-10161504001. SUPPLItS                                                                      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~67 5  67 8675S67 9370 0 iO050 0tO ISO SOO190 6000
Total INVESTMENT COStS                                                                                                          3 6 123 3 122 ;  77 0 67.5 394.2  II 0 273.9 272 8 171 2 1500 876 0
1013                                                                                                                            3 6 123 3 12 527*     0 67    394.2   9 0273 9 73 8 lit 2 iSO 0 760
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .. ... ... .. . . .. . ... . ....   ... ..... ....  ...... ..... .....
arch 24. 196  #t 59
0I 
HA-' 
N
oN



inZAlIn'S
EmJCATIlM 90D UANPmmR WA9LOPR141
tab111 300 PROJCt Msuo,EM,T SIREROTNsoImO
Ouet bled Coaltable
EWIICAIS MiII soni
.?wntity                                    II&" Coast                          Be". Costs in 6
iii  as   g0   9*  92  total  tnist Cost sm,   as    90   91   92  Total   66    as    90    91   92  lotal
I 4WEsTNT COSTS
A. PROJCT K&tCAMOI3W AND SIBENOT*EMINO OF PRWOPRA
tIUIPNIT /a                                                                                                                 695   69      -             13 1   t4 5  1495       -               29 0
"AlERIALS    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                     -06 a4I  Ia                                  49   3 .0  4 0  4 0              -  tOO
VEHICLES                                                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~*449  146     -  293   3229  323        -    -          SS 0
VE"ICLE MINTIOWCE  ~~*                                            -    -     --3 6   72  72                                         Is-  4  a0 S    Is60  460    -    -    400
AaCITCICm.COWA.TANT                                       mm WTH                -    4    4                 a       32195     -  1329135               27 0       - 20 0   00            -   s 00
ACCOUIAT4T COWASUTANI                                       MAN NMI 04                4    4                 a      3 379      -  13 9 13 9             27 0          30 0  20 0               so600
UmllED NAITIONS VOLUNTEERS                                   MAN TEAt            2    2    2    -     -      6       13 9 27.0  27.0 27 0               of 6  0   60 0  60. 0  60 0            o500
TRIPS                                      ~~~COST PER TRIP       I    2    I                 4        495495     0049           -    -1.0   40 020 0  400    -             - 40 0
SALARIES /b                                           IMcCENtIVS am P6V3W.       3   1 2   I2   1 2   1 2    94       0 2  0 6   2 4  2 4  2 4  2 4  10 2    I 2   5 3   9 2 5 2353    22 7
S*ALAIES                                                PAYROLL PER NMtI"       42   12   12   12   12    60        0 67*  aSI   aI  SI  a4 IaI  40.9   49.0  la46           t 0 is 450n30    30 0
OPEASAIIM  COSTS - kIGH!. TELEPHONIE. ETC.               COST PER WIfh           6   12   12   12    6    46         0.27   4 6   3 2  232  3 2  4 6  13.0    3 6   7 2   7 2  7 232 6    2664
Stb-TotSl PROJCI RANiAOEMEMT AND) ST1111127,161114111 OF PIR0F061A                                                            67 S4069 61242374212 26149   1496 23716 406209S269   62S 9
S.GAIECI STRIMOTH6INMO
ElpNI" /c                                                                        .    .     -    -    -                     6.0   66      -          -132    19 0  IS90                        30 0
VEHICLES                                                                                                     -              1 3  113    -            -2295   25 0  29 0         -    -           00
VEHICLE Naiwtoumi                                                                            $ a~~~~~~~~~~ 2626          9   a    4 0   a60   s0o               20 0
owsIIuE  AmIE OFNCHOL                                                                                        --                         794Is14is4   37.7          -     -  167 33 933 S       637
SALEARICES  OPSMOSPATROIA PfR 1101111H                                           6   12   t2   2   12    94         0 09  0 5   I I  I I  I I  I I   4 9    I 2   2 4   2 4  2 4  24    108s
OPIR*IUIN  COSTS                                         COST PER IMII           6   12   12   12   12    54        0136  0.8    I6  Ia6I6   1 6   7 3            3     3 6    263 626         16 2
Sub-TotSS GATECI STRENGTHENING                                                                                                21 2  243 213 a47 S 47 a  9490  47 0  54 0  20 7 29    299   210 7
C 0MOUING FOR PROJECt EXPERTS /d
CIVIL "Ms                                                                                      5~~~~~~~~~~~~  4 0  940     1060  120 0420 0         -              240 0
CivIa DEVEOPMET1l0                                                                                                                   -                 as--60   too00                         too 100
SImiTE IVEWMN                                                                                                              Is    -13  443    - -     -229   29 0 ~S0                           so- 00
Sub-Toita "MOIMG FOR PROJECT EXPERTS  /a                                                                                     4462  693                    211 344    329 014490   -          - 470 0
total IMISIONI COSTS                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~234 9 196 4 99 4 34 5 29 9 987 &  521 9 426 9 211 3 TO 0 SB I 1.20 2
Total                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~224 9 196 4 99 I 34 9 29 9 967 6  921 9 436 9 211 3 70 0 6 4 1.20622
/a 51 LIST
lb StE IlIST
IC Sig LIST
MarCh24. 49161 46as9
soo
01



mlZAaI.A
ECUCcAT la"NDM 06*096 OEVELOPMANT
table 201 tNGIWEERINO SCHOOL
Deltaied Coopt lable
(NETICAIS oillIionit
Quantity                                       Rase costs                         ease Costs in S
unit        58~ 89    90   91   92  total  Unit Cost   Rs    89    00------------ 0    S    6   tta
1.INVESTMENT COSTS
A ELECTRONICS LABORATORY /a
CONSTRUIIOM                                  SUNl COST                540          -        540       0 126          so690    --66.0                   - 161.2    -    -           162
SITE OEVtLOPIMNT                                                                                                       2 7    -- 2                            0
POOP FEES                                                               -                                          -2 7    -2                                 0      --              6
EQONIUIP9                                                         -212 9                                                                   212.9           47320                   473 0
Ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          1                     I                5035 0
Sub-Total ELECURONICS LARORAIORT  /a                                                                                  -3020....  -- -  -2020-           - --------  --- ---   .. .....2
S  WORKESHOPS lb-32002                                                                                                                                         7261 
CONSTRUICTION                                 Sam COSI                642                   642       0 079       -   0 6                   so- 56     -     2.4    -     -    - 112 4
SITE OEVEi.OIINT                                                  -                            -                      2 0    -     -     - 2                  5     --               4
FtJRIITUJRE                                                                                                           to. .      10         t Io      -    400    -40 0
EQUIPMNT                                                                -                                           2921      -    -      2921            649 0    -           -64900
PROF FEES                                                         -     -     -    -    -      -- 2.1    -                               -2 1                4 6    --               4 6
Sub-Total NG9SNOPS lb                                                                                                 -364---647                          - ---0--  --- --- --- ------
C  MANAGERIAL STRENGTHENING.34734                                                                                                                              o                        t 
EQUIPMENT - NICROCONPIJTERS                                       -      1    -    -I141aS-                                        -    -11835                                      1 
MATERIALS AND TEXTBOOKcS                                                1     -I2                                        -    -3141    31700                   -    -     -         7  0
VEHICLES /CI                                                                  -                I               360       -         -     -36 0   60 0                               so- 600
SUb-Total 00066R1A6 SIRENGTHENIIG                                                                                209i3           -2093  465 0                     -465 0
O  LOCAL SALARIES PAIOBY GOVERNTNT    IWENTY PERCENT OF NO    12    12   12   12    -            48       0 09    II    II I    I               4 3    2 42   442 42 4            -     96
6  OPERATING COSTS OF EXISTING OFO ICES       VONtIHLY COST         12    12   12   12   1I    60        0 225    2.7   2 7  2 7  2 1 2 7  13 5    6 0          6 0  6 0  6 0  6 0    30 0
Total INVESTMENT COSIS                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~213 0 670 5  3 S  3 8  2 7 893 8  473 4 1.490 1 8 4  S 4  6 0 1.966 3
Total                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~213 0 670 5  3 8  3 5  2 7 893 8  473 4 1.490 I a 4  a54  6 0 tOSA 3
/a  FOUR LAUOOATORIES WIT"4 R PLACES EACH FOR TELECOiMMUICATIONS; AMALOGIC ELECTRONICS.             OIGIIAL ELECTRONICS; ANDO CONTJROL
lb  FOU ORKSHO1011PS WITH S PLACES EACH FOR LOC1(SMIIH: MACHINE FOOLS ItAlICS AMS MILL ING)          PREFABRICATION IWE10190. FOUNDRY AND SLADItNG) &MD AUTO MECHANICS
/c ONE AUTiO AND TWO MINIBUSES
March 24. I98M 16 59
O'I



-e
K_
c ........... ..... ..... ....   ..... .... .... ..... ..... ....   ..... .... .... ..... ..... ....
t4                                                                                                                                                                                                             U    t U@  meC *  t II F ztt JC50  t  * -e
O ct *       C    C   t S o   c t    et Cos     0 I  c     0t     0 9   s           Ict   S    a        t VC                                 L "O  t  5                                                 *X Lb  oso nf,% l 2:1-l
co    t         cc   cc   I t   a    we       asb  of   of   09   9  o             i 9  A 9   A      cw o6   &I   co   Cs                                    AS93 A imso>          S13611  s>Xjo a cs"  on 10ev*11
C S   *    C I t *   t *   * S   9              * t    C     C c        e a  S   C U  I I  I S    I    S I                        Cs     I   c C o   Cs    M  0 1001538d A901JOI      UIIU_    As 0lw   s V1w  S   3ao0   o
$set S- *                              tt O            55C G  K           ICC           0 t99    Us                                                                                      SOMMZ  UU3I1A   1s014 0K
0 Al          aot                                                       OCt                                                                                              S SUSSIIinI S SWJSCgU
C w   -    555  59*     UttI             555 *  IL SK -                         K                          C555  W1S                              $0 VU 11111du _s03                               lutaS1lIa
e551*            455  955           00 *OI O                   OCU      O Cos            04I   0 to        0t(5        of               re   tC                l111111 W__ IN d1
* 0S OSt   OS                       USt      *O       t  e    tc         cc               to5  04         S5CC        of               ;                s     a   Meltn      1              se_nn
So9*               Os  a *C         0 CU             0 sO  Osi    * U OP                      O0        c OS    t$ OC   t                   O                        Soit C-      5o0551  4111 W14112O  we owll Urn
Cs  .                                 c6  c  o          ft  -  is 0     US               05   00                                        .    -s
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . .... ..... .....  ..... .... .. .. ... .. . .... .. .. ..... ....  ..... ..... ... ...  ...  ...   ....... ..... .....
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                         as*@|u *St    n uvO    Cs    ge     Os    so n6m   *su              4rslt   so as    So                   S|un
IM-ti-a %19114A UD                                                                                              U
S        4S     * _II  eIln Iii 
nlw    olc  oo
S.iUW3i U in31104 anS wo11
4U5I eISI  11w    5  511341



ltRXAImeN AND~ Map~R O6vEIoPmENI
lUiES 203 COIUOCIAL SNSIIIUI&
Detailed Coat ?aht-
(NltICAIs MililuitI
Quantity                                         Bass Costs                        Bass costs in 8
ini t           88     89      90   94   92  ltotl    Uinit coal  -    89    90   9t   92  Totla  481   89    90   Of  02  Total
I. IMVESTUEMI COSTS
A CU*RICUJLtm OfEVIIOPUNT
EXPERT                                        MAN mtH                       24                        24       3 375        so80                   of-8 0     -1800                    too100
MATERIALS AND1 TEXTBOOkS                          TEXT               - 6.500                      S .5SW      0 aIll        731           3-13 I                16  5    --162S5
MIICROCOMPUJTERS                                                             9    -                             4 32        389      -3809                       86 4     -             864
SOFTWARE PACK9AGES                                                   -                                                         0     -                0       -20 0                     200
FtRNITUREFOR MICROCOMPU,TEORRoom                                              -          -    -        -                     63    -- 63                      -   4.0    -     -        140
SEMINARS                                 ONE-WEEK SEMINAR WIT        -      10           -    -       10       0 45          4S                      45          10 0    -    -         TO
STUDY TOUORS                                ONIENa4TH TOUR                  f2                -        2      09414          of13    -     -        113       -25 2    .       -        252
FeL oVsI4Ips                                GM4 UTNTI COST                  72                        72      0 945         Go680    --68 0                     IS* 2    -     -     -151 2
S.-Totala CURRICULUME OEVIIOpomXI4                                                                                          -292 2    -              292 2       -649 3      -            64q%3
B MANEAGEMENT STRENGTHENING
EXPERT                                        mm"MOET"                      12    -                    2      3 375      -405        -             405        -800                      so- 00
PHIOOCOPIER                                                                   I               -                 2 25     - 23        -     -         23       - 5.0    -    -        -     0
FELLOWSHIPS                                 ONE =MT"CS cost                        -    -2            12      0 945      -   12      -              13        -  2522                   2S.2
STUDY TOURWS                                ONE NGEt TOU5R                  la1                       la4      09S45     -   70    -                170          378 a         -       37 8
SUD-Total MANAGO8NT STRENGIH4NING                                                                                           -   11       -    -1                 -50          ----  ----5---
C  LOCAL SALARIES PAIDOVTGOVEE,84NT    TWENTY PERCET TIFM 30            2       52   12   12     -       48        0 09   I's   II  IIt  I I        -   43   2 4   2 4  2 4  2 4        -   9 6
O  OPERATING COSTS OF EtISTIWO OFF ICES         MOT4t78t I CST         12       12   12   12   12        60       0 325  2 7   2 7  27  2 7  2 7  13 S       0   6 0  6 0  6 0  6 0  20 0                                 0
Total INVESIMENOT COSTS                                                                                                      3 8367.1   38   3 8  2 738  1 1     84819S7&84  8 4  6 0  468                                   N
TOtal                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 6 367 4  3 8  3 8  2 I 384 I  8.4 815 7  8 4  8 4  6 0 846 9
March 24. 1988  16 58



tK1  - rngW  D6UW
41l* 201  Inu6t&lou PI_MINS me _        I_Cll 6a61mo0I
DeaOiled Cot In e
.. . . ..                                 .    .. .  ..     ........................
moIt            00         t 0   of  *2  1.1.1  UsII Cote       t    It   *0    DI   t2  *-11             U     so0   so   tI  1.t1t
......   ..... _    ..... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   .. . .. . . . ...      . .     .. . . .   ..    ..... .   ... . .      ..     . .     . . .. .. ..    . .. .. . ...       . ... .     ..   ...
a  swuovIm cosllsam  me ou4 acsivillls
...        ...     ..  .......
:41meW CO      n                                                                                     am  nu                      6                      6      3 111 "I,     210      '     '       210           SO I0                    600
56Ctom  Ps IAIU 1,   I                                                                                                                 aaIa                    02on            I                      II2          t040a                      06
Sellers, to:vs                                                    velp"o"                 $0                    I.~~~~~~~~~~~~12  I25  221                 -  221           so00                      so
cmcukAton~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                          ~~~   '3  630  a070e  72              ZX            1 0                       03
vunluas                                                                                                                    2                            2           56                 -            is     40 0 '                        ..
_ *. .11. li0vml 0451151, 6        8IING ACV  IiS                                                                                                                         tos   54?    Ia               645 s   40 04        4 0     -    -   o0
a   IME414*0                pae194461MI   *U44I.5IP0o"CIS
cnwtl"f                                                                                              cm -N*7I"                                                  3 337    *   40*0t t
mcu4m11 *I C                                                                                                                   O                       I         3            14                     S0            n *-O               -    U S
S,                                                                            0    1, :                                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14  2                  3
Ave"  *m  cinwls                                                                                                               O   o                    I 0
6601o. ttC16all                                                                                                                a 6  0O S                I                 a               -             S,  "I  O                           1-t
s.  *100o    N eOW     PiM INB AMD PSIF p llm  of 1U1 101 POCIS                                                                                                           II  545                          0   50o      0       -    *O 12        o"a
c  1,11t0S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
Jll  stom                                                                                                                      0 0                                        033 a  33 *                St O s        nS 0 I0o    -oo                  W
lm.nrn ino.mau .III                                                                                                        ,           .          . o                        12 1.2                 IS -5 250110 0 ,
PIACI 6501U,15115  . 01311111      C . ?CIOI .aI.I&_Iag  511411 . am pta4461411 0 F pitp0    tt                                                                                 0  26 0t  O 0        90 0          40 0  s Ooso        - 0  am
fi* le01   511fea 1                                                                                                                                                       45 4_  010 2II110 *000 24002520400                                  1*
l~c., 51444861 PaloeV064         om WU6UNI                                                        161111   PS"II  OF on     12    II2  I22  12   12    60         0 04    I   II 11la 1 3i 0II   14 20I4  'I24 " 34 44                     0130
I  044as en,I  01111 1 *XISIII  lWhetS                                                                 inI ISCOST             2    12    2 I         2    g0      0  n   27 27      7   2172        7     I  I S  0   0      60  s O00         me
W&I  I_llt"mil COsIS                                                                                                                                                        Is *224 13           6   2* 4504   114 4         2534t4   641.6
.els .                                                                                                                                                                       26 231 4 13126    654                 1414124                   6 .
641  24.  *M   Os So
0a m



U'          I-.[i]
GIF I                  C
1            Ii                                  .-
I    I
I    S
*    S
______   Is
*    S
I    I
I                      I
I                *     I
hi
I
I                                 I
*..  I                    a
IIi!
ii                   ij  III
I-   I     I
I    I                          II II II             1111111
II                     Ii   ?:
II                  iiJ1I
II                    II   II
___                               II                    *
LI
-ii
111111111
----.4.
lilt I I I
III'ip



- 85 -
Annex 3-14
Gobnee Profn
&uCtPre
rI--
_    eer                                 I  Admin W1D Ieto
9aa810W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffci (2)
S(2)iodt (2)
VIc *w M f Educktn
Olrgotorci Planning  D~.ctoote, Mhkbstly of Edcatw k n
Chbft  dPlorvg Pcannrn DIs lt - M   o EdcatonDrector d Prects and  lnng - 'iEM
Deputy Dock,r. Focult d EngWnmrr- VEM
Dhctor.of PlCM ft, WV
DtOlid. DEOCM
Dhp t. CE
Lwngums Rmforh- WDE
Rsor.5 IS                                                                                        WAdd Sai*411701



- 86 -
Annex 3-15
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOVER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project CoordinatinR Committee
Vice Minister of Education, MINED
Director of Foreign Affairs, MINED
Director - Planning Directorate, MINED
Chief of Planning - Planning Directorate, MINED
Director of Projects and Planning, UEM
Deputy Director, Faculty of Economics, UEK
Deputy Director, Faculty of Engineering, UEK
Director of Planning, SETEP
Director, ICM
Director, DECCM
Department Chief, DECCM
Director, INDE
Language Researcher, INDE
Rector, ISP



- 87 -
Annex 3-16
Page 1 of 4
HOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
for Experts
Expert Title and                                                    Estimated
Counterpart*                     Responsibilities                 Duration
1.  Expert-Consultants    (a) Describe the scope of work            12 man-months
for Designing          of the school managers in                (or 3 periods
Training Modules       Maputo City.                             of 4 months)
(counterparts to
be identified)
(b) Identify training needs.
(c) Prepare modules for training
of school managers and principals
in short, intense one week
seminars.
(d) Assist in organizing study
tours for trainers.
(e) Assist in identifying and
selecting bibliographic materials
for training.
2.  Accounting Expert      (a) Document status of accountancy       12 man-months
for Curriculum         training in Maputo City.                 (or 3 periods
Development at                                                  of 4 months)
SETEP                  (b) Assist in developing a new
(counterparts to       curriculum and examinations for
be identified)         bookkeepers and technician
accountants.
(c) Propose mechanisms for
developing the accountancy
profession in Mozambique.
(d) Assist in selecting software,
bibliographic materials for
training of accountants.
(e) Assist in organizing study
tours for accountancy trainers.
*Counterparts are shown in parenthesis.



- 88 -
Alnos 3-16
Page 2 of 4
3.  Commercial Subject    (a) Assist in designing new               12 man-months
Curriculum Expert      programs of study for the ICM.           fnr 3 periods
(SETEP - Planning                                              of 4 months)
Director)
(b) Organize seminars with
curriculum developers, users of
training and alumni of ICM to
discuss and revise new curricula.
(c) Edit new curriculum for ICM
and coordinate the publications.
(d) Assist in selecting software
and bibliographic materials for ICM.
(e) Assist in organizing study
tours for ICM trainers.
4.  Management             (a) Identify and document the new        12 man-months
Strengthening          management structure for ICM which       (3 periods of
Expert                 responds to new curricula developed.   4 months)
(ICM - Director)
(b) Prepare administrative manual
for ICM, including staffing
requirements, staff development
policies, staff responsibilities,
elnes of responsibility, scheduling,
procedures, budgeting, accounting
and auditing processes, examinations
and record keeping mechanisms.
(c) Assist in coordinating
fellowships and study tours for
ICM managers.
5.  Curriculum             (a) Team up with UNDP experts            12 man-months
Development in         in School of Economics to
School of Economics   - continue the curriculum
(Dean and staff          development processes
School of Economics)    initiated for specialized
economics courses
- prepare revised curricula
for specialized subjects.
(b) Organize seminars in
specialized economics subjects.
(c) Coordinate the preparation of
modular courses in economics.



- 89 -
Annex 3-16
Page 3 of 4
6.  Economists             Prepare modular courses in              48 man-months
(Staff, School of     economics with specific
Economics              relevance to Mozambique.
7.  Macro Economist        Lecture in economics subjects           10 man-months
(Staff, School of     in specialized seminars for
Economics)             faculty members of School of
Economics
8.  Budgeting and          (a) Prepare guidelines for              8 man-months
Accounting             budgeting educational expenditures       (2 periods of
Expert - MINED -       at provincial level and for             4 months)
(Director of          accounting purposes.
Planning, Ministry                                             16 man-months
of Education)          (b) Interview officials in Ministry    of local
of Education and provincial offices       experts
to detenmine training needs.
(C) Design training program for
budget and accounting specialists.
(d) Assist in organizing study
tours for provincial budget
directors.
9.  Manpower Planning      (a) Assist Ministry of Planning         12 man-months
and Preparation of    and Planning Unit of MII'ED in           (3 periods of
Future Projects        using Manpower and Education            4 months)
(Staff of Planning    model to forecast and analyze
Directorate,           labor and manpower requirements.
Ministry of
Education)             (b) Assist in preparing a seminar
to present results of study.
10. Architect for          Assist PROFORMA in preparing bidding   8 months
PROFORMA               documents for construction and          (4 periods of
(PROFORMA Engineer)   in implementing and supervising the    2 months)
construction program.
11. Accountant for         Establish accounting system, train      8 months
PROFORMA               local accountants and supervise         (4 periods of
(PROFORMA             accounting job                           2 months)
Administrator)



- 90 -
Annex 3-16
Page 4 of 4
12. Management of          See Annex 3-6
Education Study
13. Mother-tongue          See Annex 3-6
nsnguages Study
14. Education Finance      See Annex 3-6
Study
15. School Maintenance    Terms of reference being prepared
Study
16. Project Evaluation    See Annex 3-7



MOZAMBIQIE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Experts and U.N. Volunteers
Component                             Expert Titl-                      Tim_      Unit Cost   Thtal Cost        IDA (WS   _
man/month    US2 '506     US$ C1e        Bas       Gros
Pedagogical Improveents    Designing Trnining Modulos (Expert)                   12          7.60           9060      9f.0    1l6.6
Designing Training Modules (Local Expert)           24          0.60           12.0      12.0       14.6
Subtotal                                          36                        102.0    162.5       122.9
School of Economics          Curriculum Developmnt (Expert)                      12          7.58          97.0    79a.         196.4
Macro Economist (lectures)                          is          7SO            76.9      7t 0       90.4
Economist* (modular course)                         48          7.60          3660      3o.s0      4 U 8
Subtotal                                         7y                         5265.     526.0      632.6
Comerclal Institute          Accounting Expert for Curriculum Development        12          7.6S           96.0      96.0      16 .6
Comercial Expert for Curriculum Developmnt          12          7.50           90.0      ge.o      10e.C
Management Strengthening Expert                     12          7.50           96.0 0    90        186.4
Subtotal                                          36                        279.0    270.0       325.4
Educational Planning and    Budgeting and Accounting Expert                       8          7.50           66.e  O    6e.       72.3
Financial Management         Budgeting and Accounting (Local Expert)             16          5.50 .00 0.0                         9.6
Manpower Planning Expert                            12          7.60           96.0      9060      108 6
Subtotal                                         38                         168.0    168.0       190.4
Project Management           Architect (Proforma)                                 a          7.60           60.       6o.5       72.3
Strengthening                Accountant (Proform)                                 a          7.60           60.e     6e.o        72.3
SubtAt l                                          16                       1.-       1209.      144.6
Totol Expertes                                                                  194                      1,176.O   1,175.O    1,415.9
Project Management           U.N. Volunteers (Proforma and DECCU)                72          2.60          190.0     1006.      213.3
Strengthening
3/ 3 periods of 4 months.
21   2 person  O6 months each.
2 perlods of 4 months.
j/  Grose means: cost including price and physical contingencies.



MOZAMBI"U
EDUCATnON AND MANPOI R DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
F llowships and Study Trip
F llowships                        Study Trip.               IDA USI DM
man/    Unit Cost  Total Cost    Number    Unit Cost Total Cost   Net   Groom&
Component                     Objectiv,               month    US1 'On     US$ 'I0      ot Trip.   US$ 'm9       USI 'BmS
Pedagogical Improvement     Training ot School Managers                                         iI/             7.0        6.4        U.0   S.7
and Principals
School ot Economics         Curriculum Devolopm nt            72          2.4       172.8                                           17236  257.7
Co se mcal Institute        Curriculum Development                                             121/             2.1       25.2       25.2    M.S
Co_merclal Institut         Curriculum Development            72          2.1       161.2                                           1t1.2   1t1.7     0
Coe_erciol Institut         Managme nt Strengthening          12          2.1        26.2                                            25.2    8.6
Comeercial Institute        Manag  - nt Strengthening                                            18            2.1         n7.o      *7.    45.6
Educational Planning and    Improving tosting and
Financial Management        Budgeting Activi .les            *          2.1        16.6                                            16.6  2is2
Educational Planning and    Improving Costing and
Financial Manag ment        Budgeting Activitoe                                                is            *.e 9.s               W.t    69.0
Projoct Management
Strengthening             Protorma                                                              4           19.9         40.9      40.    47.7
164                   3.36.        52                       253.5 9   C7.O
One month tours.
!v   Gross means coatu Including physical and price contiognclo.
M
OD



- 93 -
Annex 3-19
___.____ _ _. 
Ij 111Q:Wl
: .111Li:L- T_  _rr 
0
-~il li I 11  ll II' 
L        ii           V;j!ij
zf~    1       I       ii  I    ti
u i_  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _I



36I                                                         00
34                            0                          38                           40                    42
t---ioa  ZAISt ,SAN.A:lA   9   \                                                                           /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Palma
TANZANIA                                                       o
.Ei  >  /W   ~   S ~     MoCImboa do Prala
Mueda
'  _ t  itS,lLAND                           *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oulaS                                                              120-
IIa      NIASSA
} MAi AWI ) ,;, MS ) ~~~~~~~~~~~PEMBA
-1Z A M B I A                c         NG X\  E,4t
140    ZABI14
N      h f  iMrcuburl            M810ssI
eHARARE             E                  
20                                                                                la0
18 ~ ~   ~     ~     ~ ~        t(          .                                        UFLMN                                                                   8
M 4 5 > t~~~~~~~~~~~orofloosa    Cnd
ZIIMBABWE                                            /
SIlls nde'lla ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~nd
IMB BW                    Su$  na                 
o2O_                                                        Buzl    BEIRA
MOZAMBIQUE
Espungabra\                                                          MAJOR LANGUAGES
LANGUAGES; INHABWANTS:
Nova
Mambone                                  MAAKUA+CHWABO  + 5,000,000
2   NYANJA-SENA     iz 2,1 00,000
-                    Ihassoro                                 SHONA      +       1  00000 0
TSO,,rA- CHANGANA t 2.00,000
/,  /                             |           \                                                     TOTAL t 0.0,T,90000
320                 /}  /Th rOVIlanculm                                                             THE TOTAL NATIONAL POPULATION IS 13,000,000 AS OF 192
-                  7//icChlcualacuala           I               5         
PAVED ROADS
---------   PAVED ROADS. UNDER CONSTRUCTION
GAZA                                                                           EARTH ROADS
7                                     -~~~~---------s-  R~~~~~~~~~~AILROADS
I 4   >   4aINTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
, ,'  \         tt                 2                  /                             t        OTHER AIRPORTS
ti    t   1l   1   }   (    INHAM8RANE  RIVERS. PORTS
-24                  |   Ma#lvn91r V    X      )        h                 Xg4SWAMPS                                                                                   241L
*/       PROVINCE CAPITALS
S 0 U T H                                                                                       *iJd     NATIONAL CAPITALS
A F RICAP Us                                                                                              '80 ROVINCE EOUNDARtES
.\ Mgudr    e                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtIES
R L \ ~~~XAI-XAI
o                 f60                  MAPUTO
MBABANE         Bela 0                              _0 _          ,                                  000          200          300 KILOMETERS
300                                                 34                       36                       3180                      400                        420



