Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15697
U4PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1907-MOZ)
May 13, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =       Metical (MT); pi. Meticais
US$1 I                              MT II,1971
MT I                        =       US$ 0.000092
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (m)                 =      3.28 Feet
I Square Meter (m sq.)      =       10.76 Square Feet
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DCA           =      Development Credit Agreement
DECCM         =      Education and Culture Directorate of the City of Maputo
ERP           =      Economic Rehabilitation Program
FUNDAP        =      Fundacao de Desenvolvimento Administrativo do Estado de Sao
Paulo
GEPE          =      Gabinete Executivo de Projectos Educacionais
(Directorate of Projects)
ICM           =      Instituto Comercial de Maputo (Commercial Institute of Maputo)
IDA           =      Intemational Development Association
INDE          =      National Institute for Educational Development
ISP           =      Instituto Superior Pedag6gico
(Institute for Advanced Pedagogical Training)
MOE           =      Ministry of Education
NGO           =      Non Governmental Organization
PROFORMA             Gabinete Tecnico de Gestao de Projectos Educacionais
SETEP         =      State Secretariat for Technical/Vocational Training
SAR           =      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           =      Special Drawing Rights
UEM           =      Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
UNESCO        =      United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                           January I - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER                           February - December
UNIVERSITY YEAR OF BORROWER                       August - June
At Appraisal, October 1987
2Current (04/30/1996) conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1907-MOZ)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ...............................................................i
Project Objectives ...............................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ................................................................H
Future  Operations ..............................................................                                                        iii
Lessons Leamed  for Subsequent Operations ...............................................................                                  iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives ..............................................................I
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives .............................                                   .................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................4
D.  Project Sustainability ..............................................................S5
E. Bank  Performance ................................................................6
F.  Borrower Performance  ...............................................................6
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................................7
H. Future  Operations ..............................................................8
1. Key Lessons Learned ...............................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:   Summary  of Assessments ..............................................................                                                    11
Table 2:   Related  Bank  Credits ...............................................................                                                     12
Table  3:   Project Timetable ..............................................................                                                          13
Table  4:   Credit Disbursements ...............................................................                                                      13
Table  5:   Schedule of Activities  in Project Implementation  ........................................................ 14
Table  6:   Key  Indicators in Project Operation ...............................................................                                      15
Table  7:   Major Studies Included  in  Project ...............................................................                                       16
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................................                                                                17
Table  8B: Project Financing ..............................................................                                                           18
Table  9:   Economic  Costs and  Benefits ..............................................................                                              18
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................... 19
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ........................................................ 20
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................................                                              20
Table  13: Bank  Resources: Missions ..............................................................                                                   21
APPENDIXES:
A. ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Comments to the ICR
Map IBRD No. 26934
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1907-MOZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education and
Manpower Development Project in Mozambique, for which Credit 1907-MOZ in the
amount of SDR 11.7 million (US$15.9 million equivalent) was approved on May 17, 1988
and made effective on October 12, 1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, the original closing date. In addition,
a grace period of four months was granted through April 30, 1996, to complete claims for
expenditures on contracts signed and approved prior to the closing date of the credit. The
total credit amount was fully disbursed (except for SDR 55,000), and the last
disbursement was on January 24, 1996.
The ICR was jointly prepared by Ricardo Silveira (Task Manager, AF 1HR) and
Carolina Machado (AF1MI), and reviewed by Helena Ribe, Acting Chieft AF1HR, and
Jacomina de Regt, Acting Operations Adviser, AF1. The Borrower provided comments
that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, from December 4 to 22, 1995. It is also based on materials in the project files.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in
the mission's aide memoire and commenting on the draft ICR






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1907-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Education and Manpower Development project (Education I) was identified
by a Bank mission that visited the country in October 1985, shortly after Mozambique
became a member of the International Development Association (IDA), and its
preparation was carried out by the Government with UNESCO and IDA assistance. At
the time of credit approvaL May 1988, the education sector in Mozambique was facing
serious problems. At the primary level, net school enrollment had been on the dechne and
so were quality and efficiency. At the secondary level, in spite of an increase in
enrollments, the gross enrollment ratio was only six percent, compared with an average of
20 percent for all sub- Saharan countries. University enrollments had not yet recovered to
pre-Independence levels and only modest gains had been achieved in technical education.
2.    From preparation and throughout most of the project life, there was a violent civil
war raging in the countryside which targeted, inter alia, education infrastructure and
teachers. Thus the only medium-term certainty of security for IDA investment was in
Maputo. The project was intended to respond selectively to immediate needs in the
sector. As the first Bank operation in the education sector and the first investment
operation in the country (the two preceding operations were quick-disbursing adjustment
credits), it "opened a door" to the education sector in Mozambique. This also meant that
both the Government and the Bank underwent a significant learning process in terms of
each other's procedures and guidelines.
Project Objectives
3.    The project's objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were
threefold: to raise the quality and efficiency of primary education in Maputo in order to
increase literacy and numeracy among primary school-age children; to strengthen the
training system in order to fill critical manpower gaps; and to strengthen the capacity for
education sector policy analysis with a focus on financial management and planning. The
objectives were kept simple, taking into account the war situation and insecurity in the
countryside, and the fact that this was the first operation in the sector/country. The
project was later amended (formally in 1991 and again in 1995) to better respond to
changed Borrower circumstances and priorities. Project resources were gradually
reallocated from school expansion and general technical assistance to actions giving
emphasis to school efficiency (e.g., learning materials and school implements).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    ProjectAchievements. Project objectives were substantially achieved and some
exceeded original targets (e.g., number of beneficiaries of classrooms and learning
materials). However, since this was a relatively small investment operation, independent
of other sector operations, its impact on overall outcomes is not expected to be substantial
or readily measurable -- especially since the project did not build capacity to monitor
outcomes. The project has had a positive impact in:
*  Improving primary education through the construction and rehabilitation of 294
classrooms, the provision of learning materials, and the training of 250 school
principals and teachers in building maintenance, supervisory skills, school finances, and
health and nutrition. Training was only partially successful as the participants found
some of it too theoretical and not adapted to existing circumstances.
* Strengthening post-secondary education through academic upgrading of the faculties
of engineering and economics at the University Eduardo Mondlane (UEM), including
a successful program of overseas fellowships in the faculty of economics, and
provision of appropriate teaching equipment at the faculty of engineering, which has
enabled UEM to raise revenues by selling engineering testing services to the private
sector. Although the Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM) subcomponent was not
implemented beyond the provision of equipment, with little impact on teaching
perfornance, technical assistance to upgrade the accounting curriculum has been
picked up by the ongoing Second Education Credit (Education II).
* Improving sector management, planning and project implementation, through a
series of innovative consultancies invohling the use of participatory techniques, and
training in financial management, budgeting and accounting for high level officials of
the Ministry of Education (MOE) and provincial education directorates. This has
raised MOE's capacity for planning and budgeting, and to develop a sector strategy
(primarily through the studies financed under the project).
5.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. Project
implementation has been very satisfactory, and the MOE has had a high degree of
commitment from the start. Nevertheless, substantial accumulated delays in
implementation resulted from poor performance by a major construction company as well
as from an initial lack of knowledge of Bank procedures on the part of the Borrower,
particularly in procurement matters, compounded by general weak implementation
capacity in the MOE departments involved and in the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mozambique. Regular visits from headquarters'procurement staff provided much needed
training and expedited the documentation clearance process. Unfortunately, after a
number of Country Implementation Reviews and countless specialized disbursement and
procurement missions, many of the problems at the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mozambique have not been resolved, especially in the case of contract approvals.



iii
6.    Project Sustainability. The project's achievements will be sustained through the
successful implementation of Education II, which continues to finance actions initiated
under the first credit. In the long run sustainability will be contingent on regular school
maintenance, and education quality maintenance through the provision of recurrent cost
financing for learning materials, maintenance, teacher training, supervision, etc.
7.    Bank Performance was satisfactory throughout the project. Efforts were made
during identification and preparation to keep project design simple, in accordance with the
Government's strategy and keeping in mind that this was a pioneering operation in the
sector and in the country. In retrospect, the rate of execution of the project estimated in
the SAR was often ambitious (e.g. all civil works were completed within the project life
but with a two year delay) and the SAR did not include clear performance targets which
made difficult to monitor implementation.
8.    Project implementation supervision was satisfactory, both in terms of time spent on
supervision and the close association that evolved between Bank, GEPE (the International
Projects'Implementation Unit for the MOE), and other MOE staff. A collegiate relation,
developed during the supervision years, has led to an atmosphere of trust among Bank,
GEPE and other MOE staff which has proved to be valuable in the preparation of a
proposed follow up sector integrated operation. This was due not only to a continuity in
project team composition (task manager, legal and disbursement staff), but also individuals
participating in missions were chosen for their technical ability, sensitivity and flexibility
towards the Mozambican culture and reality.
9.    Borrower Performance. During the project identification and preparation stage,
the Borrower's lack of knowledge of Bank guidelines and procedures and weak
institutional capacity had a negative effect on the Borrower's performance. This situation
changed during implementation with the development of a strong team at GEPE,
responsible for procurement, financial management, and monitoring of civil works, whose
knowledge of project execution has become invaluable in the implementation of the more
complex Education II. Still the project faced continuous obstacles caused by weak
institutional capacity in other directorates of the MOE and by often faulty processes in the
broad government apparatus, specifically in the area of disbursements at the Bank of
Mozambique and contract approval at the Ministry of Finance.
10.   Beneficiary Assessments were performed during implementation by way of
consultations with parents, teachers, directors, and other beneficiaries, which has helped in
the restructuring process of Education II. More beneficiary consultations at the design
stage of the project might have helped set up more realistic implementation rates in all
aspects of the project. On the other hand, the architectural project preparation team
conducted a lot of "stakeholder consultations" with communities, teachers, and school
directors, to determine what model of school design would be acceptable.
Future Operation
11.   As the first Bank operation in the education sector and the first investment
operation in the country this project "opened a door" to the sector. Three projects follow,



iv
two ongoing and another proposed and in preparation. The Education II Project became
effective in July 1991 and took in some of the activities initiated under Education I, with
greater focus on the quality of education, including teacher training and non-formal
education activities. The Capacity Building Project focuses on secondary and tertiary
education, including support for capacity retention at the UEM. The Education Sector
Investment Program, an integrated sector operation scheduled for FY99S, to be
implemented through a partnership among the Ministry of Education, donors, and NGOs,
proposes to focus on an expansion of classrooms in rural areas; teacher training with
emphasis on distance education; an increase in girls' participation in primary and
secondary education; an increase in learning materials' availability; and capacity building
within the Ministry of Education.
Lessons Learned for Subsequent Operations
12.   The key lessons that emerge from the experience associated with this credit are:
=> Project simplicity and realistic objectives are important factors in project success,
especially in an environment of great uncertainty and recognized lack of capacity.
G Government commitment to the project is fundamental in achieving objectives, but
success is also highly dependent on the implementation capacity of the staff in the
project implementation unit.
G Good implementation is dependent not only on the quality of staff at the
implementation unit but on the capacity in all departments in the sector ministry.
.- Mozambique's centralized system of contract approvals and handling of project
accounts require the availability of specialized capacity in the Ministry of Finance and
Bank of Mozambique. Such capacity is not available and project delays continue to
occur.
> To effectively monitor implementation, clear performance targets need to be set at the
time of appraisal.
=> Regular supervision and establishment of proactive practices (such as annual reviews)
are key factors in successful project execution.
=> Continuity and personal characteristics of the project team are important factors in the
success of the project.
> Beneficiary assessments are valuable tools of project design and implementation.
Greater involvement of beneficiaries would have helped in setting more realistic
implementation rates for civil works, more relevant technical assistance, more
appropriate relative emphasis on learning materials, and support to girls' education.



PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives
1.    The project was designed within the context of Mozambique's Economic
Rehabilitation Program (ERP) of 1986. It supported activities that were feasible under the
economic and internal security constraints at the time of its inception, when there was a
violent civil war raging in the countryside. The project was intended as a first IDA
investment operation in the sector/country that would selectively respond to immediate
needs while assisting in developing a better knowledge of the education system
requirements and a comprehensive sector strategy. As indicated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), the project's objectives were threefold. First, it intended to raise the quality
and efficiency of primary education among primary school-age children in the city of
Maputo. Second, it would provide training in professional and technical areas in order to
fill critical manpower gaps. Third, it was to strengthen the capacity for education sector
policy analysis, focusing on financial management and planning.
2.    Specifically, the project aimed at:
(a)   Improving the quality and efficiency of primary education in Maputo
through:
(i)   renovating and enlarging primary school facilities to reduce
overcrowding and improve the learning environment for pupils then
being taught in make-shift accommodations;
(ii)   training for school managers and principals; and
(iii)   providing pupils with essential school supplies.
(b)   Strengthening the quality and relevance of training for:
(i)   accountants, office managers and customs officials at the
Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM) by developing commercial
curricula and examinations and reducing the current shortage of
textbooks and reference materials; and
(ii)   engineers and economists at the University Eduardo Mondlane
(UEM) by providing instructional materials and equipment. At the
Faculty of Economics, assistance was provided to reorient and
update the curriculum and to support fellowships.



2
(c)   Improving education sector financial management and planning by
supporting:
(i)   training in financial planning and management for about 50 high-
level officials from the Ministry of Education (MOE) and provincial
educational directorates;
(ii)   use of a manpower planning model to forecast and analyze labor
and manpower requirements and to illustrate future education and
manpower possibilities;
(iii)   the preparation of studies to support development of a long-term
strategy including financing of the education system, mother-tongue
languages, education sector management, and the preparation of
future investment projects;
(iv)   the establishment and operation of an International Projects'
Implementation Unit (GEPE) in the MOE, in addition to
strengthening the School Construction Office in Maputo.
3.    The objectives of the project were in conformity with Mozambique's war situation
and insecurity in the countryside. The project was not complex and objectives might even
be perceived as excessively modest if one does not take into account that this was the first
IDA investment operation in the country and the very first contact between IDA and the
education sector. The project was later amended (formally in 1991 and again in 1995) to
better respond to changed Borrower circumstances and priorities. Project resources were
gradually reallocated from school expansion and general technical assistance to actions
giving emphasis to school efficiency (e.g., learning materials and school implements).
4.    The objectives of the project were clearly stated and consistent with IDA's country
strategy at the time of appraisal, which emphasized assistance to safe areas of the country
to miimize risk to infrastructure.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    Overall the project has substantially achieved its major objectives. The forecasted
number of students to be reached by the infrastructure expansion and renovation program
was exceeded and targets for beneficiaries of learning materials (e.g. reading books,
notebooks, pencils, etc.) were substantially surpassed. Also met were targets for inputs
for the improvement of sector management and planning. The training of engineers and
economists at the UEM was generally achieved. The training of accountants at ICM is
being carried out under the second education project.
6.     The improvement in primary education component was successful in delivering
the promised inputs to increase literacy and numeracy among primary school-age children



3
in the city of Maputo. The project built and rehabilitated 294 classrooms; furnished about
350 classrooms; and provided learning materials to the entire primary school population of
some 300,000 children. The bulk of the classroom construction, rehabilitation, and
renovating activities took place in the peri-urban area of Maputo, which is also the area of
highest incidence of low-income households, particularly refugee families, at the time
fleeing the war in the rural area.
7.    The project also upgraded the quality of school level management through the
training of 250 principals and school managers in such matters as building maintenance,
supervisory skills, school finances, and health and nutrition. These activities were carried
out at the Instituto Superior Pedagogico -- ISP (Institute for Advanced Pedagogical
Training). An assessment of the outcome of this training revealed that it was only partially
successful in achieving its objectives. Although participants rated the training as
satisfactory, they were also critical of the contents as excessively theoretical. The fact that
participants were being trained in areas over which they had very little financial control
(e.g., there is virtuafly no budget for maintenance or supervision) contributed to the
impression that their training was not practical.
8.    The strengthening of post-secondary education component focused on the
faculties of engineering and economics at UEM and on the Commercial Institute of
Maputo. The project supported the introduction of practical training in engineering
through the complete re-equipping of the electronics and mechanics laboratories and the
purchase of microcomputers. The new equipment has also allowed the UEM to sell
engineering testing services to the private sector, thus creating a valuable capacity in short
supply in Mozambique and raising revenues for the maintenance and continuing expansion
of this key faculty. In addition, the project has raised the average level of academic
qualifications at the faculty of economics and the efficiency of the program, by providing
three doctoral fellowships; the first graduates have now returned and substantially
improved local staff quality. It has also financed specialized expert assistance in program
design and curriculum development. The project also supported the re-equipping of the
Commercial Institute of Maputo and initiated a consultancy to improve the curriculum of
the accounting program. This consultancy was seriously delayed (having begun in 1994)
and was not finished by the closing date of the project; arrangements were made for the
continuation of the consultancy under the Education II project.
9.    The improvement of sector management, planning and project implementation
component was the component with the widest reach and likely to have the most
sustainable impact on the sector. A series of consultancies with FUNDAP were
undertaken to improve sector management and intemnal management processes, utilizing
participatory techniques. Interviews with government officials involved in sector
management during and after the consultancies revealed an unanimous satisfaction with
the outcomes. Many of the recommendations of the consultancies have been adopted,
while others await parallel developments in financial decentralization.



4
10.   Studies prepared under the aegis of the project had (and still have) a significant
impact on the development of sector strategy. In particular, background work on
education financing and expenditures provided vital inputs to the preparation of the
Education II project. More recently, in 1992, the Education Sector Financing,
Expenditure and Management Review, which was produced by a joint team of the
Ministry of Education (including substantive contributions by the present Minister of
Education and the Secretary General) and Bank staff, provided timely inputs in the
restructuring of the Education II project and has been used by other donors in the
preparation of their own education projects. Another important study with immediate
practical applications was that of the use of mother tongues in primary education which
prepared a pilot initiative for the Education II project.
11.   Finally, general project implementation capacity was significantly enhanced
through the creation inside the MOE, of GEPE, an institution composed of a team of local
management professionals with expertise in financial management, procurement and civil
works monitoring. And this expertise has greatly expanded over the lifetime of the
project. It should also be pointed out that these MOE staff contributed significantly in the
identification and preparation of the Education 11 project and have lately provided advice
on procurement matters to staff of other ministries. Early in the project life, MOE officials
decided not to use DECCM (the parastatal maintenance unit for Maputo) to implement
school rehabilitation and maintenance, but rather to use private firms to carry out these
activities.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   The implementation record of the project should be rated as very satisfactory. The
Government was, from the start, highly committed to the project objectives. This was
evident when civil works under the school construction component required the relocation
of a limited number of urban dwellers, and the Government, in the absence of a clear
institutional resettlement framework, surveyed the persons affected and implemented a fair
relocation program. When implementation issues were raised during project execution,
they were discussed and addressed at the highest levels of Government. As a result, a
meaningful working relationship has been established between IDA staff and staff at the
MOE, particularly GEPE staff. In addition, the Government has shown flexibility in
revising their own procurement and administrative procedures in an effort to adjust to
Bank guidelines.
13.   Despite some delays in most activities at the start of the project, due to the lack of
knowledge of Bank procedures on the part of the Borrower and to the generally weak
capacity in the MOE departments, supported by substantial Bank technical aasistance from
headquarters and the Resident Mission, the project managed to fulfill virtually all pre-
established objectives by the closing date. Another positive factor in project execution
was the practice of annual project implementation reviews, a trend-setting feature included
in this project. It provided a forum where implementation issues could be raised by



5
project staff in close consultation with their Bank counterparts. A couple of incidents
caused major delays in civil works and technical assistance; they were:
(a)   Poor performance of a construction company and the subsequent
annulment of two major civil works contracts after lengthy negotiations,
which led to substantial delays in the implementation of classroom
construction. Government opposition to the annulment of the contracts
(based on non-technical reasons) led to lengthening of the process.
(b)   Indecisiveness at the Vocational and Technical Education Secretariat led to
initial delays in the implementation of curriculum development in the ICM
component. After a long approval process, GEPE hired an accounting firm
to submit a diagnosis study of the situation of ICM as an institution, and to
make proposals for a finalized revision of the accounting curriculun.
These delays were severe and the time lost was never recovered. These
activities are presently being implemented under Education II.
14.   Project costs and financing compared favorably with estimates at appraisal, as
shown in table 8B, Project Financing, of the Statistical Annex. Total actual IDA financing
amounted to US$16.3 million equivalent compared to the original US$15.9 million
equivalent. Actual Government participation was of the order of US$1.6 million
compared with about US$2.0 million estimated at appraisal. Disbursements were slow in
the first years due to procurement problems, but steadily improved from FY93 and were
greatly accelerated in the last year of the project.
15.   Audits Compliance. In the first years of the project audits were not submitted on
a timely basis, as required in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). In view of the
number of overdue audits, the MOE hired an independent firm of auditors to do all
outstanding and future audits. The audits for 1993 and 1994 identified possible
irregularities in the use of funds under the credit accounts, mainly due to errors in
expenditures control at the Bank of Mozambique as well as reconciliation difficulties due
to constant delays in the receipt of special account statements.
D. Project Sustainability
16.   The various institutional development activities under the project have been
introduced in the regular operating procedures of the MOE. Since the project itself is filly
integrated within the school system and the education sector as a whole, its sustainability
depends on the sector's overall prospects. In physical terms, the sustainability of buildings
and equipment will largely depend on whether school maintenance is regularly provided.
On the other hand, sustainable quality of education is contingent upon the provision of
sufficient non-salary recurrent cost financing for items such as textbooks, learning
materials, and teacher training and supervision.
17.   A follow-on project, Education II, has ensured continuity of financing for several
of the priority activities of the first project namely reconstruction of the primary school



6
network, provision of learning materials and institutional development as well as support
to key faculties in the UEM. Education II further emphasizes educational quality by
focusing also on pre-and in-service teacher training and on textbook development and
provision. The more recently made effective Capacity Building project provides support
to secondary and university education with considerable consideration being given to
capacity retention at the university.
E. Bank Performance
18.   Bank support in project identification, preparation and supervision was
satisfactory. As mentioned above, project objectives were adequate to Mozambique at the
time; however, the expected pace of implementation of various sub-components was
overly ambitious (e.g. all civil works were expected to be completed by end of year 2).
The Bank was specially mindful during identification that project goals were in accordance
with Government's overall development strategies; a concerted effort was also made to
keep the project simple.
19.   As noted in Table 12 in Part II of this report (Statistical Annexes), the Bank's
involvement in project implementation has been satisfactory. The average time devoted to
project supervision was about 11 staff weeks per year over the life of the project, although
this was invariably complemented by preparation and supervision of Education II. The
composition of the missions was adequate to the needs of each particular visit, and there
was continuity in staff involvement.
20.   Despite several changes in task managers in the first two years of implementation,
with three persons in turn handling the project, the same task manager, lawyer, and
disbursement officer have been responsible during 54 percent, 80 percent, and 40 percent
of the project life, respectively. Staff and consultants involved in the project were always
carefully chosen not only for their technical ability but also for demonstrated sensitivity
and flexibility towards the Mozambican culture and reality. The Bank team was generally
considered flexible and pro-active in introducing changes when Government priorities
changed or when processes were found to be lacking or inappropriate.
F. Borrower Performance
21.   Borrower's performance during project identification and preparation was
deficient due to lack of knowledge of Bank policies and procedures as well as lack of
capacity within the MOE. On the other hand, Borrower implementation of the project
was satisfactory. A strong team was formed in the project implementation unit (GEPE),
which now excels in all crucial areas of project execution, including procurement, financial
management, and monitoring of activities (principally civil works). A substantial amount
of experience gathered during this project proved invaluable in the implementation of the
follow-on operations, Education II and Capacity Building. Standard consultants'
contracts ("contratos tipo") were developed and agreed to in close coordination with local
staff to facilitate the clearance process and expedite project implementation. Despite
tremendous progress in the MOE, the project faced continuous obstacles imposed by



7
faulty processes in the broad government apparatus. The most severe obstacles were
disbursement-related obstacles at the Bank of Mozambique and contract approval
impediments at the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, after a number of Country
Implementation Reviews and countless specialized disbursement and procurement
missions, the problems have not been resolved, especially in the case of contract
approvals.
G. Assessment of Outcome
22.   Overall, the project achieved good results against original objectives and sector
goals, having in some instances exceeded original objectives and targets, this despite initial
slowness in implementation. However, since this was a relatively small investment
operation, independent of other sector operations, its impact on overall outcomes is not
expected to be substantial or readily measurable -- especially since the project did not
build capacity to monitor outcomes.
23.   Construction and rehabilitation of primary schools, which accounted for the bulk
of the budgeted expenditures, was successfully carried out. Training of school managers
and principals was also successfully implemented, though the practical outcome of this
component is questionable. Substantial amounts of resources were reallocated to expand
the provision of learning materials not only to the schools built by the IDA credit, but to
all schools in Maputo and to a large number in other provinces. Support to the Faculties
of Economics and Engineering in the form of equipment, fellowships and technical
assistance was fully carried out, and the Faculty of Engineering has been successful in
selling its services to private firms, as envisaged.
24.   The institutional development sub-components of the project, including the
strengthening of the planning process of the MOE and the establishment of an efficient
implementation team within the MOE were successfully carried out. The technical
assistance in curriculum development for accounting in the ICM suffered delays, but it is
now being implemented. This is considered an important activity and will continue to be
implemented under the auspices of Education II. All studies planned were undertaken,
and the information generated in some of the background papers as well as in the final
studies was instrumental in the development of Education H and later in its restructuring.
25.   Beneficiary Assessments. Consultation with project beneficiaries (parents,
students, teachers, directors, other participants in training programs, etc.) during
implementation of Education I has contributed greatly to the understanding of benefits and
shortcomings of Education II and to its restructuring process. Greater involvement and
consultation with the same beneficiaries at the design stage of both projects would have
improved outcomes. This would help in setting more realistic implementation rates for
civil works, more relevant technical assistance, more appropriate relative emphasis on
learning materials, and support to girls' education.



8
H. Future Operations
26.   The Education II project became effective in the early years of Education I
implementation. This second project expanded some of the activities of Education I,
especially school construction which was expanded to cover all safe districts (including
all rural areas after the peace accord signed in 1992) with continued targeted support to
the same faculties in the UEM. Education II also continues to provide support to
institutional development within the MOE. The modest original support for learning
materials has been substantially expanded to cover the entire country. Unlike Education
I, the follow-on project provides greater focus on the quality of education, including
teacher training and non-formal education activities. Additionally, the Capacity Building
project provides continuity of support to secondary and university education.
27.   As Education I comes to a closure, IDA has begun to prepare an integrated sector
operation in basic education. Preparation for this operation builds heavily on the
experience of both Education I and II and focuses on: (a) expansion of classrooms in rural
areas; (b) teacher training with emphasis on distance education; (c) activities to
substantially increase girls' participation in primary and secondary education; (d)
improving the availability of learning materials; and (e) improvement of executive
capacity within the MOE. This program is to be implemented within a framework of
partnership among MOE, donors, and NGOs cooperating along broad lines of activities,
rather than narrow project objectives.
1. Key Lessons Learned
28.   The key lessons that emerge from the experience associated with this credit are:
=> Project simplicity and realistic objectives are important factors in project success,
especially in an environment of great uncertainty and recognized lack of capacity.
=> Government commitment to the project is fundamental in achieving objectives, but
success is also highly dependent on the implementation capacity of the staff in the
project implementation unit.
= Good implementation is dependent not only on the quality of staff at the project
implementation unit but on the capacity in all departments in the sector ministry.
=, Mozambique's centralized system of contract approvals and handling of project
accounts require the availability of specialized capacity in the Ministry of Finance and
Bank of Mozambique. Such capacity is not available and project delays continue to
occur.
=> To effectively monitor implementation, clear performance targets need to be set at
time of appraisal.



9
= Regular supervision and establishment of proactive practices (such as annual reviews)
are key factors in successful project execution.
=  Continuity and personal characteristics of the project team are important factors in the
success of the project.
* Beneficiary assessments are valuable tools of project design and implementation.
Greater involvement of beneficiaries would help in setting more realistic
implementation rates for civil works, more relevant technical assistance, more
appropriate relative emphasis on learning materials, and support to girls' education.



I



PARII - Statistical Tab1eq






11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                                       X
Sector Policies               X
Financial Objectives                                                         X
Institutional Development     X
Physical Objectives           X
Poverty Reduction                                                            X
Gender Concerns                                                              X
Other Social Objectives                                                      X
Environmental Objectives                                                     X
Public Sector Management      X
Private Sector Development                                                   X
Other (specify)
B. ProJect Sustainabilit        Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance          Satis&    y            Satisfactory             Defic
Identification                X
Preparation Assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                   X
D. Borrower Performance      Satis                  Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                                                                  X
Implementation                X
Covenant Compliance           X
Operation                     X
Hi hl                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome    Satis            SatisfacH= Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
x



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title             Purpose                           Year of Approval    S Status
Preceding Operations
NONE
Following Operations
Second Education        To support improvements in the quality and  December 20, 1990   Ongoing
efficiency of primary and university education,
as well as the management of the education
sector.
Capacity Building Human  To build and maintain capacity in key public    November 19, 1992   Ongoing
Resources               institutions and skill areas by expanding the
supply of well-trained senior planners, policy
analysts, managers, and technicians, and
improving incentives and working conditions
for senior civil services. Specific objectives
include: (a) increasing the quantity and
improving the quality of university graduates
and stabilizing the capacity at the Eduardo
Mondlane University through systems
development and training in administration and
financial management; repair and upgrading of
existing campus facilities and the constructionl
of new ones, including libraries, dormitories
and staff housing; provision of textbooks,
computers and other library materials; and
provision of graduate training for academic
staff; special emphasis on faculties of
engineering and economics; (b) improving
learning achievement in upper secondary
education through rehabilitation of six pre-
university high schools in the provinces,
including the construction of student
dormitories and staff housing; quality
improvements in these schools, including
support for curriculum and examination reform,
provision of textbooks and learning materials,
and training of school principals and
administrative staff; and special measures to
increase female enrollments. Use of GEPE as
PIU.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Planned                   Actual
Identification/Preparation                                  October 1985
Pre-appraisal                                                 May 1987
Appraisal                        September 1987             October 1987
Negotiations                     December 1987               March 1988
Board Presentation                 January 1988               May 1988
Signing                           February 1988               June 1988
Effectiveness                       May 1988                October 1988
Midterm review                                               July 1993 '
Project Completion               December 1994             December 1995
Credit Closing                    December 1995            December 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY89   FY90   FY91 | FY92   FY93 [ FY94   FY95    FY96
Appraisal          1.6      3.2      6.2      9.7     13.2    15.9       1.9     15.9
Estimate
Actual             1.1      1.7      5.3      8.5     10.5    13.5    14.8    16.3
Actu  as% of       70       53       85       87       79       84       93       103
Estimate
Date of Final    24 Jan
| Disbursement:   1996
An assessment was carried at project's mid-life using beneficiary consultations, including students and parents, school instructors and
principals, and Ministry of Education staff (at central and provincial levels).



14
Table 5: Schedule of Activities in Project Implementation
Appraisal             Actual
I. Key implementation activities in the Staff Appraisal Report             Estimate         Completion Date
Completion Date
Primary Schools
Civil Works                                                              Jul. 1991            Dec. 1995
Furniture and Equipment                                                  Jul. 1991            Dec. 1995
Completion of Government classrooms                                      Dec. 1988
Pedagogical Improvements
Technical Assistance                                                     Dec. 1990            Dec. 1992
School Supplies                                                          Dec. 1992            Dec. 1995
Engineering School
Civil Works                                                              Dec. 1989            Dec. 1992
Furniture and Eauipment                                                  Dec. 1989            Jul. 1994
Materials and Textbooks                                                  Dec. 1988            Dec. 1991
Vehicles                                                                 Dec. 1988            Jun. 1989
School of Economics
Books                                                                    Dec. 1990            Jul. 1991
Technical Assistance                                                     Dec. 1990            Dec. 1993
Fellowshi s/Trainine                                                     Dec. 1990            Dec. 1995
Commercial Institute                                                          Dec. 1989           Dec. 1992
Furniture and Equipment
Technical Assistance                                                     Dec. 1989            Dec. 19951
Project Administration
Vehicles, Furniture. Equipment                                           Dec. 1989           Dec. 1989
Technical Assistance                                                     Dec. 1990           Dec. 1990
Education Planning and Financial Management
Technical Assistance                                                     Dec. 1989           Dec. 1993
Continued under Education II.



15
Table 6: Key Indicators in Project Operation
Description of Indicators                                 |   Actual'
1. Increasing literacy and numeracy among primary school children. 
a) Improve physical facilities.
Number of new and rehabilitated classrooms                                                294 (260)
b) Train school managers and principals to improve school organization practices:
Number of school managers and principals trained                                          250 (360)
c) Provide essential school supplies:
Number of schools that received supplies                                                 20002 (300)
2. Strengthen the quality and relevance of training:
a) Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM)
Improve curricula and strengthen management                                                  No3
Provision of equipment                                                                       Yes
b) School of Engineering:
Provision of equipment                                                                       Yes
Increase in revenue producing activities of the Faculty of Engineering                       Yes
c) School of Economics:
Improve curcula                                                                              Yes
Training of staff                                                                            Yes
Provision of equipment                                                                       Yes
3. Improve education sector financial management/planning/project implementation:
a) Train budget officers:
Number of budget officers trained                                                            30
b) Use of manpower planning model:
Training of staff                                                                            No
Seminars organized to analyze results                                                        No
Policies resulting from use of model                                                         Yes4
c) Undertake studies:
Number of studies undertaken                                                                3' (3)
d) Establish project management unit and strengthen school construction unit
Project Management Unit established                                                          Yes
Strengthen school construction/maintenance unit                                              No6
' Numbers in p rentheses represent estimates a: .pra.a
2 A substantial reallocation of resources towards learning materials was effected after the end of the civil war to include the rural areas.
3Technical assistance for curricula improvement and management strengthening will be implemented under Education H.
4Model has influenced policies indirectly.
5 Two studies, Financing of the Education System and Education Sector Management were merged into one document.
6 Unit was closed. Rehabilitation and maintenance of classrooms is now being camed out by the private sector.



16
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at                 Status                 Impact of study
l_____            appraisal/redefined                                                                  l
Mother Tongue      Ln cooperation with NELIMO, UEM   Ongoing program.         A pilot initiative. .; continues to
Languages        language institute, to: compile date                       progress in a satisfactory Wa2. In
on languages spoken by children                            the past six months, the
entering school; identify status of                        mathematics bock for the fourth
alphabets and grammars of spoken                           grade in the Tsonga and N'hanja
languages in the country, and work                        languages was revised and were
being done; gather information on                         the history and natural sciences
results of other countries' bilingual                      books. All materials for tLe
programs; select bilingual model;                         teacher treaining courses in the
and review experience in education                         same languages, scheduled for
in mother-tongue languages to                              1996, were prepared and tested.
expand adult literacy program.                             and leaming matefials p7ovided to
the students. The transition rate
for students m this pilot is about
70 percent compared to about 5t
percent for students in the same
l ____.__   _ _____    _ _______________________ __________________              grades  in  the  regular  system.
Financing of the        To analyze budgetary requirements   Completed - 1992       Study was used as basis for the    I
Education System       for the education sector and                                restructuring of the Second 
estimate the gap between          (Study became a formal   Education credit in 1994  It was
requirements and govemment        departmental output as a   camed out jointly by a
allocations to the sector, and make   green cover report)  Govemment and [DA team. which
recommendations on efficiency                              inciuded the Nim-ster oi F4tication
measures and cost recovery                                 and Secretary Getwral of
li                | ~~~~~~mechanlisms, so as to close the gap                 E-ducation.l
between requirements and feasible
budgetary allocations.
EclT-ducat'ion Sector   To assess existing administrative  Completed - 1992        rhis was combined wil' the above
| Managemaent         | structure and procedures. propose                          stdy.
more efficient distribution of roles
.between central, provincial and
5distict levels; identify training
needs at all levels of the education
system.
Manpower Planning       To forecast and analyze labor and    Completed - 1994      Carrned out by The Mimszry of
!                 ~~~~~~~manpower requirements and to                        ;Education xad DAN'1A_
illustrate fitmre education and                            Resources available for this study
manpower possibilities.                                    was reallocated to other purposes



17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Latest Estimate (US$M)
Foreign   Local            Foreign   Local
____________    Costs    Costs I Total    Costs     Costs    Total
1. Improving Primary Education        5,559.4  2,556.9  8,116.3  6,974.0  4,608.7  11,582.7
2. Strengthening Post Secondary Education   3,239.3    377.2  3,616.5  3,353.5    195.2  3,548.7
Manpower Training Improvements
Commercial Institute of Maputo     763.6     83.3    846.9    309.7      34.4    344.1
Faculty of Economics               725.6     57.8    783.4    808.2      60.8    869.0
Faculty of Engineering            1,750.1    236.1  1,986.2  2,235.6    100.0  2,335.6
3. Sector Planning and Management      2,307.7    719.3  3,027.0  2,533.6    298.2  2,831.8
Total Base Costs                      11,106.4  3,653.4  14,759.8  12,861.1  5,102.1  17,963.2
Physical Contingencies                 1,331.3    406.5  1,737.8
Price Contingencies                    1,020.8    334.9  1,355.7
Total Project Costs                   13,458.5  4,394.8  17,853.3  12,861.1  5,102.1  17,963.2



18
TABLE 8B: PRoJcr FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ Million equivalent)       (US$ Million equivalent)
Source            Foreign    Local     Total     Foreign     Local      Total
Costs    Costs                Costs      Costs
IDA                            13,458 5   2,396.8   15,855.3 .                       16,343.2
Government of Mozambique              0   1,998.0    1,998.0 .                        1,619.9
TOTAL                          13,458.5  4,394.8   17,853 3           1              17,963 2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return was calculated for this project at the time of appraisal.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Development Credit Agreement dated June 16. 1988
Original  Revised
Section   Cove-  Present   Fulfill-   Fulfill-
nant   Status     ment      ment             Description of Covenant                      Comments
l_______  Type                Date      Date
3.01 (b) (i)   11   C                         Introduce school maintenance as line item in  Budget line exists but there are no funds due
1990 budget; allocate sufficient resources to  to delays in school construction, maintenance
carry out the primary school construction  funds not yet required. UEM equipment and
'program in identified locations.        building will require maintenance soon.
3.01(b)(ii)  5, 12  C                          Establish PROFORMA (now GEPE);          PROFORMA renamed GEPE
C                         Appoint full-time Director;
C                         Appoint key staff;
C                         Establish coordinating committee;
NC                        School maintenance by DECCM;
C                         Director training by ISP;
NC                        [CM strengthening by SETEP;
C                         University activities by UEM (DSP);
C                         Sector planJmgmt. by DP, MOE.
3.03    5, 12     C                         Maintain PROFORMA.
3.04(a)    9       C      April 30           Annually exchange views with IDA on
progress achieved In carrying out the project..
3.04(a)(1)    9     C                         Submit reports on progress made in carrying  Report submitted semi-annually
3.04(a)(iv)                                    out the project, Its actlon programs, and
estimated project expenditures for the next FY.
3.05(a)    13      C       3131189           Undertake studies on:                    (a) completed; (b) and C ongoing, second
313U90            (a) financing of education;              phase under Education Il; (d) undertaken by
(b) language of Instruction; (c)        DANIDA.
education system management; (d)
manpower needs (background study)
3.05(a)(b)   13     NC      3131191            Furnish progress reports on studies and
submit final report.
3.06     13       C       3131192           Prepare strategy on financing and managing   Ongoing work on 10-year development plan
-                       ~~~~~~~~of education system.              has this objective. Education
ExpendJFiniMgmt. Review study completed in
1992.
3.07      7       C       6/3089            Free dltes for the prlmary school construction
program from occupants.
4.01 (b)   1       C       June 30   June 30  Have accounts audited annually and furnish
report to IDA.
4.010      9       C        nla      nW      Malntain records until completion of the  Adequate record system in place.
project, enable IDA staff to examine records
and ensure that audited accounts include
separate opinion on operation on the spea
account.
Covenant Types:                                                                                                     Present Status
I =Accounts/Audits                                     8 = Indigenous people                            C    covenant complied vith
2 =Financial performance/revenue generation from       9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting             CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                     10= Project implementation not covered by 1-9     CP   complied with partiality
3 = Flow and utlization of project funds              11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other  NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                                     resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/
6 = Environmental covenants                                 mstitutional action
7 =Involuntary resettlement                           13 = Other



20
TABLE11: COMPLIANCEWITH OPERATIONAL MANUALSTATEMENTS
There has not been any significant lack of compliance with Bank's Operational
Manual statements under this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual
Weeks  US$'000
Preparation to appraisal                      93.9    113.3
Appraisal                                    28.9      47.5
Negotiations through Board approval           8.9      18.6
Supervision                                  82.9    262.0
Completion                                    9.0      18.7
TOTAL                                        223.6    460.1



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of        Month/year       Number   Days in       Specialized              Performance rating
project cycle                         of         field     staff skills                                      Types of
persons                represented                                       problems
Implemen-   Develop-
tation       ment
status      impact
Though appraisal    October 1985          1         7               ECN
March 1986           5         7          ECN,AGE,EDC
September 1986      3          10           ECN,EDC
May 1987            4          15      ECN,EDC,TES,ARC
August 1987          2         5            ECN,EDC
Appraisal through   October 1987         4          15      EDC,ECN,ARC,LAW
Board approval
January 1988         2         5               EDC
February 1988        2         7               ARC
Supervision         August 1988          3          10           ARC,EGR               n/a          n/a           PM
November 1988        4         15         PRO,ARC,RES              1            1          PM,FP
April 1989          2          5            PRO,ARC                2            2         PR,FP,PM
October 1989        2          5            PRO,ARC               n/a          n/a         FP,PM
November 1989        2         5            PRO,ARC               n/a          n/a          FP,PR
Febrnary 1990        2         5            PRO,ARC               n/a          n/a          FP,PR
November 1990       3          5          PRO,ECN,PIS              2            2            PR
Febrmury 1991        1         5               ECN                 2            2            PR
May 1991             1         5               ECN                 2            2            LC
September 1991       1         10           ECN,PRS                2            2          CW,LC
February 1992        2         4            ECN,ARC                2            2          CW,LC
September 1992       1         4               ECN                 1            1            LC
March 1993           2         5            ECN,ARC                1            1           none
October 1993        2          5            ECN,ARC                1            1           none
May 1994             1         4               ECN                 I            I           none
May 1995             3         4          ECNPRSEDP                I            I           none
Completion          December 1995        3          7          ECN,OPA,ARC              1            2           none
Key:
AGE: Agiaukure Edizucicn Training Specialit   OPA: Opealiaas Ana1ys                 CW: Civil Works Delays
ARC: Ardcitect                            PIS: Project Implanarticm Specist          LC: Ccnpliance with Legal Coveaants
EGR: Engineer                             PRO: Prejcts Offlcer                       FP: Fincial Pafcvmac
ECN: Eccmmist                             PRS: Procureamnt Spciaist                  PR: Procurancrt Progres
EDC: Educator                             RES: Radio Educatio Specialit             PMI Projed Moagancat Pafcamxm
EDO: Fdcaion Plamcr                       TES: Tacical Educatio Specalist
LAW: Lavycr                                                                         ala: Form 590 not In AMHcs NOes






APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 8
AIDE MEMOIRE
EDUCATION I IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION II PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION
DECEMBER 11-21, 1995
1.    In accordance with the Statement of Mission Objectives dated December 7, 1995, a mission
consisting of Ricardo Silveira (mission leader), John Walls (architect, consultant), and Carolina
Machado (operations analyst) visited Mozambique between December 11-21, 1995, to join the staff of
the Ministry of Education (MOE) in the preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the Education and Manpower Development Project (Education I) and to review the implementation of
the Second Education Project (Education II). The mission also worked with staff of the MOE and
donors on the design of the Education Program. The mission was joined by Inacio Manecas of the
Resident Mission (program officer for social sectors).
2.    The mission wishes to thank the officials of the MOE for the assistance and courtesies
extended to it. This aide memoire summarizes the mission's findings and the principal understandings
reached between the Bank and the MOE. As usual, this aide memoire is subject to confirmation by
Bank management.
EDUCATION I
General Project Status
3.    The project will close on December 31, 1995, as originally scheduled. Except for a balance of
SDR 55 thousand, the entire credit has been spent and will be fully disbursed by April 30, 1996, the
end of the grace period. The remaining balance of SDR 55 thousand does not represent funds available
to the project but are merely the reflection of purchases of equipment which, erroneously, have not
been charged to the project's special account by the Bank of Mozambique. The government will have
until the end of the grace period to resolve this issue. By the end of the grace period, the credit is
expected to show overdraws of about SDR 421 thousand and SDR 170 thousand in the equipment
(which also includes learning materials) and furniture categories, respectively. The civil works,
technical assistance, training, and operating costs categories will be underun by about SDR 129
thousand, SDR 258 thousand, SDR 123 thousand and SDR 127 thousand, respectively. There is a
balance of about SDR 9 thousand remaining in the PPF. The undercommitmernt in the civil works
category and overcommitments in equipment reflect government changes in priority from construction
of classrooms in Maputo city and toward the improvement of quality of education through wider
distribution of learning materials. The unspent balance in the technical assistance category is
accounted for by a major consultancy at the Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM),was initiated under
Education I and will be completed under Education II. Similarly, training of school managers will be
completed under Education II. At the time of the writing of this aide memoire, the project is in full
compliance with all legal covenants, including auditing and reporting covenants.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 8
Implementation Completion Report
4.     The mission prepared an ICR for the project, in close cooperation with the Borrower.
Discussions with staff of the MOE yielded candid reactions about the project which have been
incorporated into the draft ICR. A copy of the preliminary draft document was prepared and left with
MOE staff for comments.
5.     Overall, the project achieved excellent results against original objectives and sector goals.
And, in some instances, exceeded original objectives and targets. However, since this was a relatively
small investment operation, independent of other sector operations, its impact on overall outcomes is
not expected to be substantial or readily measurable--specially since the project did not build capacity
to monitor outcomes. Construction and rehabilitation of primary schools, which accounted for the
bulk of the budgeted expenditures, was successfully implemented. Training of school managers and
principals (in financial management, maintenance, student health, etc.) was also successfully carried
out, though the practical outcome of this component is questionable (since financial decentralization to
schools is not yet a reality). And substantial amounts of resources were reallocated to expand the
provision of learning materials not only to the schools financed by the IDA credit, but to all schools in
Maputo and to a large number in other provinces. Support to the Faculties of Economics and
Engineering in the form of equipment, fellowships and technical assistance was fully implemented and
the Faculty of Engineering has been successful in selling its services to private firms, as envisaged.
Also successfully carried out was the institutional development sub-components of the project,
including the strengthening of the planning process of the MOE and the establishment of an efficient
implementation team within the MOE. The technical assistance in curricula development for
accounting in the ICM suffered delays but since it is considered an important activity, it was initiated
under Education I and will be completed under Education II. All studies planned were undertaken.
And the information generated in some of the background papers as well as in the final studies were
instrumental in the development of Education II and later in its restructuring.
Actions to be Taken
6.     The government has agreed to: (a) resolve with the Bank of Mozambique the issue of the SDR
55 thousand which were spent but undisbursed (by April 30, 1996); and (b) review the Implementation
Completion Report prepared by the mission and provide comments (by December 31, 1995). The
mission will issue a telex extending the date for claiming disbursements to April 30, 1996 (by
December 31, 1995).
EDUCATION II
General Project Status
7.     The mission concluded that overall project performance has been highly satisfactory in the
period between the last mission, earlier this year (May 1995), and this mission. Progress was
specially remarkable in civil works and distribution of learning materials. At present, disbursements
stand at about $15 million, with applications for an additional $3 million on its way to Washington.
By end-January. 1996, a total of some $ 21 million is estimated to be disbursed. This would be only



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 8
10 percent less than the amount forecasted for end-March, 1996 and would signal a major turn around
in the disbursement profile. Also, by end-January, 1996, according to the present contract award
schedule, about $ 41 million or over 75 percent of the credit will be committed. Implementation
progress was balanced between quality enhancing activities and infrastructure development, though the
latter accounted for the bulk of disbursements. In the future, UNDP, our donor partner in Education
11, proposes to become increasingly more involved in quality enhancing activities. Many of these
activities, such as those involved in teacher training, require closer coordination and day to day
decision making on the part of the donor than we are able to provide from the Resident Mission, so we
intend to relinquish some of them to concentrate more on those activities in which we seem to have a
comparative advantage, such as infrastructure expansion, learning materials and girls' education. For
the moment, the arrangement focuses on the implementation side (i.e., UNDP is supervising the
implementation of the entire teacher training component of Education I) but we might formally amend
the DCA in order to free resources for other uses. As we move toward an integrated sector program
approach, these implementation partnerships will involve most donors to education and allow a more
efficient use of supervisionlmonitoring resources.
Primary Education Quality Improvement
Teacher Training
8.    The fourth in-service training course for teacher trainers in the areas of Portuguese language,
Mathematics, natural sciences, geography, history, health education, environmental education,
population, psychology and pedagogy (as well as micro-ensino methodologies) took place in
August/Sepember/October, 1995. A total of 198 teachers have been trained in the four courses. Also
in the in-service training category of this component, 20 managers of school dormitories and 20
administrative assistants were trained in the areas of planning and management, health and nutrition.
A manual for school supervisors targeting directors of primary education schools and district directors
as well as educators has been prepared and will be distributed by end-January, 1996. In the distance
education sub-component, teaching materials were finalized and the logistics for their distribution
already developed.
Textbooks and Learning Materials Program
9.    The mission was informed that the approximately $ 3 million in textbooks procured through
ICB have been mostly printed and ready for shipment from India. Unfortunately, the MOE has not
provided GEPE with the list of schools to which the packages of textbooks are co be delivered, to
facilitate distribution from the port of arrival. This will surely cause delays once the books arrive.
The Bank has not yet received an estimate for the cost of distribution from the port of entry to the
provincial capitals and the schools. The distribution was originally intended to be handled by local
firms procured through NCB. GEPE will also find out how much it would cost if the distribution were
to be handled by DINAME. Another alternative would be for the books to be delivered to the schools
utilizing the Caixa Escolar system. The mission requested price estimates for the various alternatives
before making a final decision. GEPE would send the information to Washington by early-January,
1996, in time for an NCB. The mission also met with Ms. Anna Grahan of SIDA-Maputo to discuss
our partnership in the preparation of the integrated primary education program and took the
opportunity to brief her on the ICB of textbooks. The mnission demonstrated how the Caixa Escolar



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 8
system can be compatible with ICB purchases of printing services. Since the winning bid for the
textbooks ICB was substantially below the budgeted amount, the mission inquired as to the need for
more books in the foreseeable future and was informed by the MOE that, except for teachers' manuals,
the entire need for textbooks for grades 2 through 7 was fulfilled for the next two years with this
purchase. The next mission will re-evaluate the needs of the textbook program and suggest
reallocation of unused resources, if any.
Initiatives for Effective Learning
10.   Local Languages Instruction. This pilot initiative continues to progress in a satisfactory way.
In the past six months, the mathematics book for the fourth grade in the Tsonga and Nhanja languages
was revised and so were the history and natural sciences books. All materials for the teacher training
course in the same languages, scheduled for early-1996, were prepared and tested and learning
materials provided to the students. The credit also financed a study trip to program coordinators and
teachers to Malawi and South Africa for exchange of experiences in the use of local languages in
primary education. The transition rate for students in this pilot is about 70% compared to about 50%
for students in the same grades in the regular system.
ii.    Bookflooding. In early-December, some 45 thousand Menino Castanho books were distributed
to fourth graders and up. The mission was disappointed to find out that INDE failed to test the students
prior to the last distribution of books. The mission recommended that GEPE contract the services of
the Mozambican NGO such as AMME to oversee the testing of students in the future. The mission was
informed that some 40 thousand Bichinho do Caju books are being produced by Melhoramentos in
Brazil to be delivered during the next school year. The mission requested the list of schools that will
receive books and details of the plan to test students prior to distribution. The stories collected in the
provinces of Gaza, Sofala, Manica and Nampula have been processed and four stories were selected for
publishing (Tales of Mozambican Animals). In the month of January, three staff of the MOE's
publishing company, Editora Escolar, will travel to Brazil to be trained by the Ziraldo Team and to
work on the editing and design of the bilingual books. Meanwhile, three more books are being
selected on the theme Mozambican Women (Mulheres Mocambicanas). Since the Primary Education
Directorate, DNEP, does not have vehicles to effect the distribution of books, the mission suggested
that GEPE vehicles be used for that purpose. The mission has no objection, in principle, that a multi-
purpose vehicle be acquired for the DNEP with IDA funds for assistance with distribution of learning
materials, supervision of schools, etc., subject to justification of uses for the period of the project.
12.   Student Achievement Evaluation. No further activities are planned under this initiative. The
mission requested that a brief evaluation report be prepared and sent to the Bank for our files, by
early-February, 1996. The remaining US$ 50 thousand will be reallocated to other purposes.
13.   Health and Nutrition. The execution of this initiative has been turned over to AMME. The
mission was informed that AMME is presently visiting schools selected for the pilot for a preliminary
evaluation. The mission reconmmended that performance testing and de-worming procedure be delayed
until the beginning of the next school year for a better follow up.
14.   Pupils Distance Education. UNESCO has prepared the terms of reference for a consultancy to
look into the viability of a distance education for pupils in Mozambique, to complement the formal



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 8
system in low density rural areas. The mission has asked the MOE to follow up with UNESCO in the
selection of an appropriate consultant.
15.    Girls' Education. The mission worked with staff of the MOE in the preparation of a document
to be used as the basis for a strategy on girls' education. Annex-A summarizes the main points raised
in the various discussions with staff of the MOE and donors. The mission also recommended that
additional funds be reallocated to this initiative which would support the activities of a program for
girls' education that would cut across all sub-sectors of education. This is a timely development, since
the strategy for the sector is still malleable and indicates a strong desire to improve the participation of
girls in education. This initiative will test ways to best influence an outcome with substantially greater
access to girls and lower dropout rates.
16.   In the past six months approximately US$ 3.5 million have been spent in this component. The
low level of expenditures in some of the quality enhancing sub-components, despite generally
satisfactory progress, is caused by the practice adopted by GEPE to use the IDA credit and UNDP
grant funds flexibly. GEPE selects the funding source judged most appropriate for the activity being
implemented based largely on speed of approval at the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The mission was
informed that it takes months for some consultancy contracts to be approved by the MOF and often the
MOF second-guesses the technical decisions of the MOE and makes absurd requests for further
clarification. This is done independent of the value of the contract (recently, we have experienced
recently a contract of $3,500 that took over three months to clear).
School Rehabilitation & Expansion and Rural Reconstruction Program
17.   A fast pace of program implementation, which was established in the last mission, has been
maintained and in fact increased (see Annex-B). There were 179 classrooms concluded in the last six
months and there are presently some 402 classrooms being constructed. The quality of construction of
these classrooms has generally been evaluated as good, except for classrooms being constructed in
Nampula and Zambezia by China Jiangsu Intl. The issue of poor quality of construction was raised by
GEPE supervision engineers and confirmed by an independent engineer contracted by the mission (see
Annex-D). Contracts for an additional 630 classrooms have recently been awarded. On the down
side, the Ministry of Finance has refused to accept the pilot contracts with NGOs. This does not
appear to be simply a matter of disagreement over the terms of the contract, but of a much deeper
reaction against NGOs participating in infrastructure development with IDA credit. This is an issue
broader than Education II contracts and ought to be raised in otherfora. The mission informed the
MOE that the $ 3 million specifically allocated for rural classrooms utilizing NGO partners through
direct contracting may not be used for contracts with corstruction companies. In the last 6 months,
approximately $ 2 million have been spent in this component and commitments amount to over $ 27
million.
University Quality Improvement
18.   After delays in the mobilization phase, the construction of the Faculty of Sciences building of
the UEM is now finally starting, but at an unsatisfactory pace. The main reason for the slow pace of
construction seems to be the lack of use of heavy equipment by the builder as originally envisaged.



APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 8
GEPE has already warned the builder of the consequences of delays and the builder has issued
assurances that the required equipment will be introduced by early-January, 1996. The mission
requested GEPE to monitor closely the situation and inform the Bank by end-January, 1996, if the
situation does not show signs of improvement. Some of the equipment for the building have already
been purchased and more tenders will be prepared as the construction progresses. In the last six
months, only $ 1.5 million have been spent in this component.
Planning and Management Strengthening
19.   The last consultancy to assist the MOE in budgeting and planning procedures has been
completed. In the last six months, only $ 130 thousand have been spent in this component.
Training of Demobilized Soldiers
20.   A $ 2 million contract with INEFP (National Institute of Employment and Professional
Training) was signed on 30 November, 1995. No funds have been disbursed yet. The application for
payment of the first portion of the contract is being processed and should be sent to the Bank by end-
December.
Actions to be Taken
21.   The mission will follow up on the proposal by UNDP to administer the portion of the credit
presently allocated to quality-enhancing activities and TA under other parts of the credit (by late-
February).
22.   GEPE will find out how much it would cost if the distribution of textbooks were to be handled:
(a) utilizing DINAME; (b) utilizing the Caixa Escolar system; and (c) utilizing private firms (by late-
January). Estimates will discriminate port of origin.
23.   GEPE will contract the services of an NGO to oversee the testing of students in the
bookflooding initiative (by late-January). The Bank would have no objection, in principle, to a
contract with A"ME, a Mozambican NGO.
24.   GEPE will prepare a brief evaluation of the Student Achievement Evaluation Initiative (by mid-
February).
25.   GEPE will follow up with UNESCO in the selection of an appropriate consultant for a
consultancy to look into the viability of a distance education for pupils in Mozambique (by late-
January).
26.   The mission will summarize the various suggestions made by DNEP staff and donors on the
topic of girls' education (by early-January).
27.   The mission will raise with the Bank management the issue of delays in classroom construction
caused by the apparent objection by the Ministry of Finance to clear contracts with NGOs (by mid-
January).



APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 8
28.    GEPE will closely monitor progress in the construction of the Faculty of Science building
(UEM) and will inform the Bank (by late-January).
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION
29.   Since last May, the MOE has moved forward and translated the preliminary draft matrix of
sector policy, developed jointly with the last Bank mission, into a strategic document which was
presented to the Council of Ministers. The MOE still maintains output targets for the system which
are judged by the mission to be on the high side, given input requirements for classroom construction
and teacher training. Since the last mission, we are still waiting for more concrete numbers on the
recurrent expenditures implications of the proposed strategy. And there are still indefinitions in the
area of technical training and higher education. During a meeting with Minister Nhavoto, the mission
proposed to assist the MOE in: (a) developing an integrated program for primary education which we
would propose to Bank management for consideration for an early appraisal (presently it is scheduled
for 1988) in view of the good performance of Education I and II projects; (b) developing an
integrated program for secondary education in which the IDA financial contribution would come from
the on-going Capacity Building project, restructured to suit revised priorities and availability of
alternative donor funding ; and (c) continuing the dialogue on technical education and on tertiary
education initiated under the June 1995 Higher Education Study.
30.   The education sector programs would reach out to the school-aged populations in
underserviced provinces and the rural area. And the programs would target girls at every level of the
education system, through substantial and persistent strategies. The mission proposed the creation of a
position of Advisor on Girls' Education to coordinate into a program the various activities developed
to further the numbers of girls in the system. This Girls' Education Program would cut across the
matrix of formal programs of the MOE to benefit from complementarities of activities and to better
monitor results.
31.   The MOE indicated its agreement to the Bank proposal to implement and monitor the
programs along broad lines of activities, with support from lead donors in each of these lines. The
next step would involve defining with donors a mutually satisfactory division of support so that the
data gathering exercise can commence. This work should parallel the MOE effort in costing
alternative strategy scenarios.
Actions to be Taken
32.   he mission will raise with Bank management the issue of moving forward the appraisal date for
the (primary) education sector program (by late-January).
33.   The mission will raise with Bank management the issue of restructuring the Capacity Building
project to facilitate implementation and to enable it to be used as an instrument for a secondary
education sector program (by late-January).



APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 8
34.   The MOE will consider the creation of a position of Advisor on Girls' Education to coordinate
into a program the various activities presently being undertaken to increase the number of girls in the
education system. (by late-February)
35.   The mission will discuss the proposed education sector program with donors, seeking an
agreement on lead donors for each broad line of activity in the sector, and next steps (by early-March).
AAMOZEflDEC95EDAID



APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 6
REBLICA DE M0OAMDIQUB
M1NISTtR10 DA EDUCACAO
G EPE-GABINETE TPCNICO DE GESTAO DE PROJECTOS EDUCACIONAIS
33/DIR/96                                               09.05.96
FACSMILE
TO ; THE WORLD BANK - WASHINGTON
ATT : RICARDO SILVEIRA - REF. AF1RH
FAX  : (202) 4738239
FROM: GEPE
F. i   : 430204
S1'BJECT: Report "Borrower comments to the ICR"
N;. of Pgges: S (Including this One)
Please find attached four pages concerning the "Borrower comments to the ICR",
corrected according to you fax dated 8.05.96.
Best regards,
R u 26                    4DA
(GEN~L.IEEoR)
Ru Joe.qwms lapa xn. 22.3. anda -Ci .. Pts, . O261.: 32x424246-614 - Faii: 4394/43614 * T: 6-536/6-792 MO - MAPUTO



APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 6
REPOBLICA DE M oWAMBIQUE
MINISTtRIO  DA EDUCACiO
G E P E -GABINETE TtCNICO DE GESTAO DE PROJECTOS EDUCACIONAIS
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BORROWER COMMENTS TO THE ICR
INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS
We have reviewed the ICR for the Education and Manpower Development Project and
generally concur with the conclusions arrived by the Bank team.
Our cormrnents will focus on three aspects of the ICR that we consider important to refer:
. Project Objectives
. The Pr.. c'.ct Implementation and its Achievements
. Project ,ustainability
. Bank Performance
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project was identified by a Bank mission that visited Maputo after Mozambique became
an IDA member. It was intended as a first IDA operation that would selectively respond to
immediate needs, while assisting in developing a better knowledge of system requirements
and a long-term strategy for the education system. In order to minimize risk, project
objectives were targeted predominantly to Maputo. Mozambique's limited experience in
managing education projects and little experience in international bidding processes, project
monotoliir,g, in keeping accounts or perforrming audits was an other risk . This risk has been
adressed through the creation of Proforma (he Project Implementation Unit), now GEPE
(Gabine'>. Tecnico de Gestao de Projectos Educacionais), whithin the Ministry of Education
(MINED). The ojectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were -
1. To improve the quality and efficiency of primary education in the city of Maputo.
2. To strengthen the quality and relevanct of the training system.
3. To strengthen the capacity of the education sector financial management and
planning.
Rua Joaqui n Lapa n. 22-3.- andar - Cx. Postal, 4266 - Tel.: 32424427468-431614 - Fax: 430204/431614 - Telex: 6X53616-792 MO - MAPUTO



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 6
We agree with the ICR assessment of project objectives. Most of the activities were
sucessfuly completed. They are listed on item "project implementation and its achievements".
However, importants activities such traininig of principals had low impact and the
development of accountancy curricula at ICM began too late.
On the other hand there were important aspects that had contributed to the sucessful
implementation of the project and its impact such as the creation of GEPE.
During che project life, GEPE's institucional capacity was reinforced and it has became an
efficient unit for intemationaly financed projects' implementation and execution.
GEPE staff has the capacity to produce tender documents for goods, services and civil
works, and to make evaluations of proposals. GEPE staff also carries out the financial
control of credits funds and the monitoring of Government participation in each Project. It
is important to underscore that GEPE does not receive foreign technical assistance, except
for ocasional short-term consultancies.
As GEPE has a very important construction component, our feeling is that we necd to
contract a full time expert in civil works with long experience in engineering design of
buildings and management of construction works.
The legal covenants reflect this emphasis giveni to management aspects of projects (as we can
see on taMle 10 of ICR)
The other aspect was the undertaking of studies on financing of education; mother tongue
languages; education system management and manpower needs (see table 7 on ICR).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ITS ACHIEVEMENTS
The completion of activities highly exceeded appraisal estimates. Various factors have
contributed to the delays: inexperience of GOM on rules and procedures of World Bank,
training of GEPE staff in this area and performance of BOM, MOF, MOE, etc.
Comparing with project indicators described in the Staff Appraisal Report we verify that in
some it:nns original targets were exceeded:
1. Improve the quality and efficiency of primary education in the city of Maputo
through:
a) renovating and enlarging primary school facilities to reduce overcrowding and improve
the learning environment for pupils currently being taught in make-shift accommodations.



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 6
294 classrooms were built against the 260 estimated, despite some delays caused by poor
performance of a construction company and subsequent annulment of two civil works
contracts.
b) Training for school managers and principals
This activity was coordinated by the "Instituto Superior Pedag6gico" (ISP). This institution
has elaborated training materials in the following matters: building maintenance, supervisory
skills, school finances, health and nutrition,and pedagogical supervision. ISP also trained 250
principals and school managers against an estimate of 360, in two courses, one in Beira and
one in Maputo.
The original conception of having each Principal and School Manager attending a seminar
each year up to 3 times, was not implemented and some training materials were not
distributed.
As mentioned in the ICR, participants considered the course excessively theorical.
The achievment of this component reflects the general feeling that component coordination
was not well placed at ISP. 250 Principals were trained but others activities such as the
distribuition of training materials and the continuity of training were not completed. These
activities should be coordinated by DNEP (Direccao Nacional do Ensino Primario).
This component is now ongoing under Education II. The Edulandia Institute, a mozambican
Consulting Firm, was contracted to undertakc this component. The training i aterial
elaborated by ISP has been reelaborated and improved, and will be distributec to the
participan:s when the training courses start in the provinces.
c) Providing pupils with essencial school supplies.
2000 schools received suplies. The number estimated at appraisal was 25 in the city of
Maputo. Since this component was implemented in 1995, after the peace agreement, it was
decided to include rural areas.
2. Strengthen the quality and relevance of training of the faculties of engineering and
economics at UTEM and of the Commercial Institute of Maputo.
Equipment supplied to the Faculty of Engineering was very important to introduce practical
training through the new equipment and to provide a money-making activity for the faculty.
At the faculty of economics, the project has improved the program by financing specialized
expert assistance in program design and curriculum development.



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 6
Technical assistence to ICM only began in 1994. This component was very delayed in its
implementation. Besides provision of equipment, no activities were carried out to this date.
The ICR mentions the various determinants of Project implementation delays, including,
indecisiveness at SETEP - Secretaria de Estado para o Ensino T6cnico e Profissional.
Technical asssistance for curricula improvement and management strengthening will be
implemented under Ecducation II. Activities such as, elaboration of curricula and nev. study
plans have already been completed by KPMG, a consulting firm . Next activities are:
elaboratior. of instrutional materials and teachers training. These activities must also be
undertaker, by KPMG.
3. Improving education sector financial management and planning
Part of this component has been executed under the technical assistance of FUNDAP, a
Brazilian consultant firm and it is aimed at clarifying and unifying procedures for the
administrative and budgetary roles and tasks in all the Directorates of the Ministry. The
diagnostic phase of an organization and management study has been concluded. The study
looked at the organizational structure and operations of MINED and the Provincial Education
Directorates. It specifically looked at objectives and procedures in five areas: peisonnel
management;  financial  management;  documentation  and  information  retrieval;
computari- tion and management of property.
MINED .,as improved its planning capacity significantly in recent years, including the
construct'i n of a computer model wich it uses to prepare projections of enrollment and
financing costs. A data base was also developed.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
School maintenance depends on MINED's capacity. Schools managers must be prepared,
trained and conscious of management issues.
Those activities started in the faculties of engineering and economics have their continuation
under Education II. At the faculty of economics, support will continue in the fields of
development economics, African economics, development sociology, political economics and
methods of economic research and in providing in-service training sessions for the faculty
through a series of seminars.
Activities are ongoing to enable the faculty of engineering to switch to more practical training
through the equipping of basic laboratories.
The sustainability of these components will depend on the stability of personnel such as
teachers and staff trained to deal with equipment (for example at faculty of engineering
equiped with sofisticated machines). Trained personnel with the skills, knowledge and
abilities to provide the professional, technical and intellectual leadership are the requirements
for sustainable development.



APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 6
BANK PERFORMANCE
During negotiations, assurances were sought from the Bank that it would assist Mozambique
in developing its long-term education sector strategy and support the Government in keeping
essencial services going, improving the quality and efficiency of its operations, and meeting
manpower requirements (SAR, pag.9).
In fact, project implementations reviews on an annual basis were conducted jointly with IDA
in order to discuss annual project evaluations carried out by GEPE; monitor progress made
in achieving project objectives; exchange information among staff responsible for project
implementation and propose solutions to any current problems, and update project timetables
and cost estimates. Bank support in project identification, preparation and supervision was
good.
Maputo, 8th May 1996
(AGIR C     DICTOfR)
(GENE1  DRCOR)









IBRD 26934
. TA,H1  TANZANIAN ,i                .I
I -r     .NLO>  C ,                                                  TANZANIA                  w           Palmo
\   RT ZAF 5W  Of GA5 a    *    *   >           , -                     Muedo
WAZ -0D0                                                                    CABO
SO 5UTH   y          .r'    r\DELGADO
0.    AFRICA                                                                            DEGD
L    >                                                          @ PEMBA
1MALAWI    !        LCy1INGANIASSA                      Montepuez           
ZAMBIA            \   Lilongw     w
\       X                      ~~~~~NAMPULA             ,Ocl
Mocambique
TETE 
\Lake  Atl z5Erc: 1 t s .  Songo   ' {    t  2   Molocue    -
Z  ~~~    1090 -                                                 1t sJ h,    0
- X   -t. TETE   <  t>t ZAMBEZIA  i
MocuboO
Ho -aorrte  3                       P
HrJrare                  )~MANIllCA           >X.> QUELIMANE
MOZAMBIQUE
Gorongosac                                   HEALTH SECTOR
ZIMBABWE                                    @                              RECOVERY PROGRAM
zCHIMOlq 
$OFALA                                       PAVED ROADS
, X W~BEIRA
-  v  +  | RAILROADS
4 ,  +    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
)                                                     .  +    OTHER AIRPORTS
To Rode~,go   2  1                 PORTS OF REGIONAL IMPORTANCE
To R.d-ngo          
LOCAL PORTS
0    SELECTED TOWNS
~~~ ~~~>'/\    t                    i                        sf~~~~~~~~~~~~E  PROVINCE CAPITALS
\    \      \  ~INHAAABANE
\   tNt-lM GANE xNATIONAL CAPITALS
GAZAk  >                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
t   .   /            -/.   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Mess gir                            INHAMBANE
AFRICA             j
_<'  10  100      200       390
XAI-XAI                                                KILOMETERS
Th.e b-dor.es,. colon, de-o -fo-e,Tet,    O A her.HIorh AHOT
r   i fWiPU TO                                sh- - oITh -ep d o. t -ofTohny -   err-o  G or oAt eTdoTsemeTt
SWAZILAND  ffA                                                         -roccePhenofssh b.ndeoHr,
boba1 1 MiPUTO
11,7/1995    w|m  c |oS o1 A          13S1f R   FiTl









IMAGING
Report No:        15697
Type: ICR



