Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1907 MOZ
           (Education and Manpower Development Project)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 16, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1907 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16,  1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Association  has  agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend  the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MINED" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
     (b)  "ICM" means the Commercial Institute of Maputo;
     (c)  "SETEP" means State Secretariat  for Technical and Voca-
tional Training of the Borrower;
     (d)  "UEM" means Eduardo Mondlane University of the Borrower;
     (e)  "PROFORMA" means Gabinete Tecnico de Gestao de Projectos
Educacionais, the unit created  within  MINED by Ministerial Order
No. 34/88, dated February 20, 1988,  and referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement;
     (f)  "DECCM" means the  Education  and Culture Directorate of
the City of Maputo;
     (g)  "ISP" means Instituto Superior Pedagogico, the Institute
for  Advanced  Pedagogical   Training   created  within  MINED  by
Ministerial Order No. 73/85, dated December 4, 1985;
     (h)  "D.P." means MINED's Planning Unit;
     (i)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to  an  exchange  of   letters,   dated  September  29,  1987  and
November 6, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (k)  "Fiscal Year" or "FY"  means  the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  eleven  million  seven  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
Page  3
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15,
commencing November  15,  1998,  and  ending  May  15,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
Page  4
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MINED with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and educational practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this  Section,  the Borrower shall: (i) introduce
in the national budget for FY  1990 a school maintenance line item
and allocate to  it  funds  sufficient  to  carry out annual main-
tenance of schools built,  expanded, rehabilitated and refurbished
under Part A.1 of the Project;  and  (ii) carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain PROFORMA during the
execution  of  the  Project  with  such  responsibilities, powers,
services, facilities and  staff,  whose  experience and qualifica-
tions are satisfactory  to  the  Association,  as are specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than April 30,  in each year, conduct with the
Association annual Project implementation reviews to:
        (i)   discuss annual  Project  evaluations  carried out by
              PROFORMA;
       (ii)   monitor   progress   made   in   achieving   Project
              objectives;
      (iii)   exchange  information  among  staff  responsible for
              Project implementation and  propose solutions to any
              current problems; and
       (iv)   update Project timetables and cost estimates, and
     (b)  promptly, thereafter,  carry  out  those recommendations
arising out of said  reviews,  as  agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and comment:
     (a)  not later  than  March  31,  1989,  and  March 31, 1990,
progress reports  on  the  following  studies:  (i)  the  Study on
Financing of the Education System referred  to in Part C.2 (a) (i)
of the Project; (ii) the  Language  Study  referred to in Part C.2
(a) (ii) of  the  Project;  (iii)  the Education Sector Management
Page  5
Study referred to in Part C.2  (a)  (iii) of the Project; and (iv)
the Manpower Planning Study referred to in Part C.1 (b) (i) of the
Project; and
     (b)  not later than March 31,  1991, the final results of the
studies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1992, prepare the Borrower's  strategy  for financing and managing
the  development  of  the   education  system,  incorporating  the
findings of the studies  referred  to  in paragraph (a) of Section
3.05 of this Agreement  and  including:  (a) a statement on growth
targets for the education  system;  (b)  levels of recurrent costs
needed to increase coverage  of  primary, secondary and university
education; (c) a statement on  priority investments to be financed
during the period 1990-2000; and  (d) a plan for strengthening the
managerial structure and efficient  administration at national and
provincial levels.
     Section 3.07. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than June 30,
1989, take all necessary measures  to  free, of all occupants, the
sites formally attributed to DECCM to carry out the primary school
construction program referred to under  Parts  A.1 (a) and A.1 (b)
of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  Fiscal  Year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
Page  6
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Ministerial Order No.  34/88,  dated  February 20, 1988,
establishing  PROFORMA   shall   have   been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its
obligations under this Agreement; and
     (b)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action  concerning the Borrower's policies on
primary education, ICM or UEM  that would materially and adversely
affect the objectives of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any of  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. Within the meaning  of Section 12.02 (a) of the
General Conditions, the opinion to be furnished to the Association
shall specify that this  Agreement  has  been duly ratified by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers  and  is  legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  Governor   of  Banco  de  Mocambique  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          Caixa Postal No. 423
Page  7
          Maputo
          Republica Popular de Mocambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Valeriano FerrUo
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 5,150,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Furniture                     300,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
Page  8
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Equipment,                  2,210,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures and
     vehicles                                    90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Consultants'                1,110,000       100%
     services,
     studies and
     audits
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Training                    1,110,000       100%
(6)  Operating                     150,000       100%
     costs of
     PROFORMA and
     DECCM (School
     Construction
     Office)
(7)  Refunding of                  480,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                 1,190,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  11,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term   "training"   means   costs  of  fellowships,
conferences, courses, study tours  and  travel to be undertaken as
part of training and other  related  training costs to be financed
under the Project; and
     (b)  the  term  "operating   costs"   means:   (i)  costs  of
maintenance of  equipment,  vehicles  and  buildings  used  in the
execution  of  the  Project;  (ii)  Project  administration costs;
(iii) salary supplements  for  PROFORMA  staff responsible for the
implementation of the  Project;  and  (iv)  other operating expen-
ditures related to the  implementation  of  the Project, as deter-
mined in agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 160,000, may be made  in respect of Category (1) on account
of payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date but after
October 31, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is to strengthen the Borrower's
Page  9
educational system in  order  to  make  it  more responsive to its
manpower needs.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Improving  the   Quality   and   Efficiency  of  Primary
          Education in the City of Maputo
1.   Carrying  out  a   primary   school   (grades  1  through  5)
construction program in the locations  identified in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement:
     (a)  construction, equipping and  furnishing  of about 14 new
schools;
     (b)  rehabilitation, expansion,  equipping  and furnishing of
about 11 existing schools;
     (c)  refurbishing,  equipping  and  furnishing  of  about  90
existing schools; and
     (d)  completion of construction of about 12 schools.
2.   Upgrading the  quality  of  primary  school-level management:
training of about 360 school managers in management, organization,
building  maintenance  techniques   and   supervisory  skills,  as
follows:
     (a)  about  120  school  principals  in  supervisory  skills,
programming and teaching staff supervision;
     (b)  about 120  deputy  pedagogical  principals in curriculum
development, pedagogical support and evaluation techniques; and
     (c)  about 120 deputy administrative principals in managerial
and financial administration techniques.
3.   Provision of school supplies.
Part B:   Strengthening the  Quality  of  Training  and Managerial
          Capacity at Selected Post-Secondary Institutions
1.   Strengthening Training at ICM:
     (a)  Development and  implementation  of commercial curricula
and examinations for accountants.
     (b)  Development and implementation  of courses in commercial
training for office managers, bookkeepers and customs officials.
     (c)  Training and provision  of  fellowships  and study tours
to ICM staff in education and institutional administration.
     (d)  Acquisition of reference materials, textbooks, microcom-
puters, software packages and furniture.
     (e)  Preparation of an administrative manual for ICM.
2.   Strengthening training at UEM:
     (a)  Faculty of Engineering:
          (i)  construction,  equipping  and  furnishing  of about
               four  electronics  laboratories,   and  about  four
               mechanical workshops; and
         (ii)  acquisition   of   vehicles,   printing  equipment,
               microcomputers and related supplies.
Page  10
     (b)  Faculty of Economics:
          (i)  strengthening  of  the   Economics  curriculum  and
               revision of the examination system;
         (ii)  training of  and  provision  of  fellowships to the
               teaching staff; and
        (iii)  acquisition of  books,  microcomputers and software
               packages.
Part C:   Improving   Education   Sector   Financial   Management,
          Planning and Project Implementation
1.   Carrying out management training programs:
     (a)  training of and  acquisition  of  training materials for
high-level  officials  from  MINED  and  the  provincial education
directorates  in  financial  planning,  budgeting  and  accounting
techniques; and
     (b)  strengthening D.P. through:
          (i)  carrying out a Manpower Planning study; and
         (ii)  acquisition of  vehicles,  microcomputers, software
               packages, equipment, books and documentation.
2.   Carrying out:
      (a)  the following studies on:
          (i)  Financing of the Educational System;
         (ii)  mother-tongue languages (the Language Study);
        (iii)  Education Sector Management;
         (iv)  School maintenance; and
          (v)  design and preparation  of  future projects for the
               education sector; and
     (b)  four annual and one final Project evaluations.
3.   Strengthening Project Implementation:
     (a)  establishment, furnishing,  equipping  and  operation of
PROFORMA;
     (b)  training of PROFORMA staff;
     (c)  strengthening DECCM (School Construction Office);
     (d)  construction,  equipping  and  furnishing  of  about  10
houses to lodge the consultants  to be employed under the Project;
and
     (e)  acquisition of vehicles, materials and equipment.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Furniture, equipment  and  materials  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
2.   International or local shopping:
     Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $60,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $600,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Force Account:
     Civil works referred to in  Part  A.1 (c) of the Project, may
be carried out by force account.
4.   Direct Contracting:
     School supplies referred to in Part A.3 of the Project may be
procured under direct  contracting,  in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for works and goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent  of  $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association  pursuant  to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the  Association  prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
Page  12
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants and local counterpart staff
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory  to the Association. The Borrower
shall: (a) not later  than  December  31, 1988, select the consul-
tants referred to in Schedule  7  to this Agreement, in accordance
with principles and procedures  satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the  Bank  in  August  1981;  and  (b) not later than
May  30,  1989,  take  all  necessary  measures  to  appoint  such
consultants.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   PROFORMA (Project Management Unit):
     (a)  PROFORMA established in  MINED  shall be responsible for
          the  overall  coordination  and  supervision  of Project
          implementation, reporting  directly  to  the Minister of
          Education.
     (b)  PROFORMA shall be  headed  by  a full-time Director with
          qualifications and  managerial  experience acceptable to
          the Association.
     (c)  For  the  implementation   of  the  Project,  PROFORMA's
          Director  shall  be  responsible,  inter  alia,  for the
          following:
          (i)  coordination of all  Project activities with MINED,
               SETEP, ICM, UEM, DECCM, the Bank of Mozambique, the
               Ministry  of  Finance,  other  government agencies,
               official entities and the Association;
         (ii)  organization and  supervision  of  PROFORMA and its
               staff;
        (iii)  ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of
               Project documentation and files;
         (iv)  supervision of the  financial  aspects and accounts
               of the Project  and  timely preparation of auditing
               reports;
          (v)  preparation  of   Project   evaluations,  with  the
Page  13
               assistance of D.P., and progress reports;
         (vi)  making  all   necessary   procurement  arrangements
               related to the Project, including calling for bids,
               evaluation of bids and awarding of contracts; and
        (vii)  meeting regularly  with  the Coordinating Committee
               (CC) to oversee Project implementation activities.
     (d)  PROFORMA will include, in  addition to its Director, the
          following key staff:
          (i)  a Deputy Director, who shall assist the Director in
               discharging  his   responsibilities   described  in
               paragraph 1 (c) of this Schedule;
         (ii)  an Engineer, who shall  be responsible, inter alia,
               for supervising the implementation of technical and
               construction aspects of  the Project, participating
               in the selection and appointment of engineering and
               architectural  consultants,  approving  designs and
               other technical studies,  supervising all tendering
               and  contractual   procedures,   preparing  payment
               certificates,   and   giving   his   acceptance  of
               buildings;
        (iii)  two Construction Supervisors;
         (iv)  an   Administrative    Officer,    who   shall   be
               responsible,  inter  alia,  for  providing  overall
               administrative  assistance  to  PROFORMA's Director
               and other staff;
          (v)  an  Accountant,  who  shall  be  responsible, inter
               alia, for  keeping  financial  records  and Project
               accounts and preparing  withdrawal applications for
               the Bank of Mozambique; and
         (vi)  two Procurement Officers, who shall be responsible,
               inter   alia,   for    supervising   all   relevant
               procurement  procedures  for   the  acquisition  of
               furniture and  equipment,  including  tendering and
               contractual   procedures,    order   planning   and
               coordinating reception  and  delivery  of furniture
               and   equipment   with   the   responsible  Project
               agencies.
     (e)  PROFORMA shall also have the necessary support staff.
2.   Coordinating Committee (CC)
     To  ensure  adequate   coordination  of  Project  activities,
     PROFORMA's Director shall be assisted by the CC. CC's members
     and  responsibilities  are   those  described  in  PROFORMA's
     Statutes.
3.   Part A.1 of the Project
     DECCM (School Construction  Office)  shall make all necessary
     repairs and renewals  to  maintain  at  all times the schools
     built, expanded, rehabilitated  or  refurbished in accordance
     with  sound   architectural,   engineering   and  educational
     practices.
4.   Part A.2 of the Project
     Implementation of the  activities  to  carry out the training
     program for  school  managers  and  principals  shall  be the
     responsibility of ISP.
5.   Part B.1 of the Project
Page  14
     Implementation  of  the  activities  to  be  carried  out  to
     strengthen ICM shall be the responsibility of SETEP.
6.   Part B.2 of the Project
     Implementation  of  the  activities  to  be  carried  out  to
     strengthen the Faculties  of  Engineering and Economics shall
     be the responsibility  of  UEM's  Directorate  of Studies and
     Projects.
7.   Part C of the Project
     Implementation of the activities to be carried out to improve
     education sector financial  management  and planning shall be
     the responsibility of D.P.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
Page  15
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the   eligible  Categories  for  the
               Project,  minus  the   amount  of  any  outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to the Project,  shall be equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                    School Construction Program
1.   Part A.1 (a) of the Project
     Urban District          Neighborhood
         No.                    (name)
         3                   Maxaquene D
         3                   Polana Canico B
         4                   Hulene B
         4                   Mavalane
Page  16
         5                   Inhagoia B
         5                   Bagamoyo
         6                   Infulene D
         6                   Boquisso
         6                   1 de Maio
         7                   Bunhica
         7                   Sao Damaso
         7                   Cingatela
         7                   Matola Gare
         8                   Liberdade B
2.   Part A.1 (b) of the Project
     Urban District          Neighborhood         Existing
         No.                    (name)          Schools (name)
         2                   Aeroporto A        Unidade 19
         3                   Maxaquene B        Unidade 25
         3                   Mafalala           Unidade 22
         4                   Hulene B           Unidade 8
         5                   Jorge Dimitrov     Unidade 29
         5                   25 de Junho        Primaria Rua 7
         5                   Luis Cabral        Unidade 5
         6                   Khongolote         Khongolote
         7                   Tsalala            Tsalala
         8                   Matola D           Matola D
         8                   Matola F           Gungunhana
3.   Part A.1 (d) of the Project
     Urban District          Neighborhood
          No.                   (name)
         1                   Guaxene
         3                   Polana Canico A
         4                   12 de Outubro
         4                   Primaria das F.P.L.M.
         5                   Inhagoia A
         6                   Acordos de Lusaka
     Urban District          Neighborhood
          No.                   (name)
          6                  Muhalaze
Page  17
          7                  Mathlemele
          7                  Machava - Bedene
          7                  Bunhica (Km. 15)
          8                  Tunduru
          8                  Liberdade A
                            SCHEDULE 7
               Consultants' Services to be employed
                 in accordance with Section II of
                   Schedule 3 to this Agreement
1.   Expert-Consultants for Designing Training Modules
2.   Accounting Expert for Curriculum Development at SETEP
3.   Commercial Subject Curriculum Expert
4.   Management Strengthening Expert
5.   Curriculum Development for the Faculty of Economics
6.   Economists
7.   Macro Economist
8.   Budgeting and Accounting Expert
9.   Manpower Planning Expert
10.  Education Finance Economist
11.  Economists for the Financing  of the Educational System Study
     (Local experts)
12.  Architect (PROFORMA)
13.  Accountant (PROFORMA)
14.  Management of Education Expert
15   Language Expert
