Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15935-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNANBUCO
November 20, 1996
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1996) -I
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1.00 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = R$1.00
R$1 million= US$1 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Pernambuco)
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Director              Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief        Constance Bernard
Staff Member          Luis Coirolo



GLOSSARY OF ACRON'MS
APCR                   Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the
original Northeast Rural Development Program)
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
EMATER                 Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensac Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP                 World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC                  Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P                Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
GOB                    Governo Federal do Brasil
(Federal Government of Brazil)
IBGE                  Funda,co Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
IERR                   Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA                   Instituto Interamericano de Coopera,ao para a Agricultura
(Inter-American Institute for 'Cooperation on Agriculture)
IPEA                   Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Ministry of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic)
MIS                    Sistema Gerencial de Informag6es
(Management Information System)
NCB                    Licita,ao Nacional
(National Competitive Bidding)
NGO                    Organiza,ao Nao-Governamental
(Non-Governmental Organization)



NRDP                  Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural do Nordeste
(Northeast Rural Development Program)
O&M                   Opera,ao e Manuten,co
(Operation and Maintenance)
PAC                   Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU                   Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
POA                   Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE          Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR                   Physical Performance Review
PRORURAL              Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto no Estado de Pernambuco
(Project Coordinating Unit in the State of Pernambuco)
SEAIN                 Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic)
SEPLAN                Secretaria do Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SOEs                  Presta,ao de Contas
(Statements of Expenditure)
SSMP                  Sistema Simplificado do Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
TORs                  Termos de Referencia
(Terms of Reference)
UT                    Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMIBUCO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST APiD PERNAMBUCO ................1
The Rural Poor and the Economy ..................................................................1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast ..................................................................2
Experience with Past Bank Lending .................................................................... 3
The State of Pemambuco .............................................................                                               6
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) .................7
2. THE  PROJECT ..................................................................................................................10
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................................                                           10
Project Objectives ............................................                                                                  11
Project Components ............................................1                                                                 l
A. Conmmunity Subprojects .............................................11
B. Institutional Development ............................................                                                14
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................  16
Project Implementation Arrangements ............................................                                                 17
Project Technical Assistance and Training Arrangements ............................................    19
Targeting and Graduation ............................................                                                            20
Community Subproject Cycle ............................................                                                          21
Project Costs ............................................                                                                       25
Financing Plan ............................................                                                                      25
Procurement ............................................                                                                         27
Disbursements and Special Account ............................................                                                   29
Accounts and Audits ............................................                                                                  30
Environmental Aspects ............................................                                                               31
Poverty Category ............................................                                                                    31
This report incorporates the findings of an Appraisal Mission uhich visited Brazil between July 1
and 17, 1996. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mnes. Luis Coirolo (Mission Leader) and Mary
Rieth (LAlER); Homi Kharas (LAlCl); Tulio Barbosa, Joao Barbosa and Raimundo Caminha
(Recife Office); Antonio Rocha Magalhaes (LA1BR); and Lorelta Sonn (FAO/CP). It is also based
on the findings of previous Bank and Bank/FAO-CP missions consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Anna
Roumani (LAIER); Jean-Claude Sallier (Consultant, FAO-CP) and Alberto Costa (Consultant,
FAO-CP). The Peer Reviewer is Mr. Johan van Zyl (University of Pretoria, South Africa). The
Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director are Constance Bernard, Orville Grimes
and Gobind T. Nankani, respectively.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Women's Participation ...........................................................     32
Project Benefits ...........................................................          32
Project Risks ...........................................................             33
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. 35
Annexes
A.      Socio-Economic Profile of the State of Pernambuco .37
B.   The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation .42
C.     Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities .70
D.     Institutional Development and Project Implementation .73
E.     Technical Assistance, Training and Institutional Capacity-Building .80
F.     The FUMAC-P Pilot Program                                                            86
G.      Standard Designs and Operation and Maintenance of Subprojects .90
H.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .94
I.     Project Costs                                                                       107
J.  Project Supervision .ill
K.  Project Operational Manual (outline) .114
L.  List of Documents in Project Files .116
MAP: IBRD No. 28070



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJE,CT - PERNAMBUCO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The State of Pernainbuco
Guarantor:                      The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:            PRORURAL, of the State Secretariat of Planning
(SEPLAN)
Beneficiaries:                  Poor rural community associations, including a
beneficiary populatiLon of some 650,000 people
(130,000 families)
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
employs a targeting methodology at the municipal
and community levels to reach poor rural dwellers.
Amount:                         US$39 million equivalent
Terms:                          Repayable over 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:                Not applicable
Financing Plan:                 See paras. 2.43-2.44 and Annex I, Table I.2
Economic Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 15935-BR
Map:                            IBRD No. 28070
Project Identification Number:  BR-PA-42566






- 2 -
Rural Poverty in the Northeast
1.3   The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area of rural poverty in Latin
America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth, accounts for 19% of
Brazil's total land area and almost 30% of its 148 million population (1993). More than
half of all Brazilian poor, and almost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in the
Northeast where, according to a World Bank Poverty Assessment in Brazil, annual per
capita incomes of rural inhabitants reach only US$230 (less than one-tenth of the national
average).' Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the Northeast are the
relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-climatic
conditions which make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the virtual
absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints.
Northeast agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology
adoption. Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other
regions. Overall Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994.
1.4    About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The
"drought polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte,
Paraiba, Piaui, Pernambuco and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other
Northeastern states except Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas
which are generally more humid and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-
prone transitional zone between the coast and the semi-arid area. The rural economy
revolves around food crops including fruits and vegetables, and extensive irrigated
commnercial export cropping and livestock grazing by larger farmers. As a consequence of
limitations imposed by uncertain climate and market fluctuations, the rural poor in the
Northeast, comprising small farm owners, tenants, sharecroppers and landless laborers rely
on a complex of activities including the subsistence cropping of basic foods and small-
scale animal husbandry, cash crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and
non-agricultural work, and remnittances from family members living in cities.
1.5   Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (a) a rate of chronic malnutrition of
children under five at 27% and, in the rural areas, 31%, compared to 15% nationwide; (b)
57% of households without piped water supply, reaching 91% in the rural areas,
compared to 28% nationwide; (c) 30% of households without electricity, more than
doubling to 67% in the rural areas, compared to 13% nationwide; and (d) 73% of all
households and 96% of rural households lacking access to proper sanitation facilities,
compared to 46% nationwide.2
Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
2   World Bank, June 27, 1995.



- 3 -
1.6   Public investment in the Northeast in basic infrastructure --particularly in
transport, electrification and water supply-- has declined dramatically in the past 25 years
because of economic recession and fiscal crisis3. The annual growth rate of public capital
investment in the region was 9.6% in the period 1970-80, 3.1% in 1980-90, but a mninus
9.9% in 1990-93. The distribution of public investment between the Federal, State and
municipal governments, has also evolved significantly since the early 1980s. Comparing
the period 1970-80 to 1990-93, the contribution of the Federal Government to total
capital investment expenditure in the Northeast dropped from 58% to 47% while that of
municipal governments more than doubled from 9% to 19%/0. The State governments'
share remained practically constant at 33-34%. The proposed project would help
compensate for the lack of public investment expenditure in the Northeast. The project
would also reflect the shift in investment expenditure shares from the Federal Government
to municipal governments by concentrating resource allocation decisions for subproject
investments at the municipal level and by leveraging resources of municipal governments
to increase investment in poor rural areas.
1.7   The proposed project would also be a natural comp:lement to important changes in
the political economy of Brazil that were brought about by the Constitution of 1988.
Fiscal resources, priority setting and program implementation responsibilities have been
increasingly decentralized from the Federal Government to the states, municipalities and
local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the financial and
managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered under
centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, have now
shifted to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being redefined to stress
more strategic functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer
schemes to improve equity.
Experience with Past Bank Leirding
1.8   The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing projects to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs
and projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral
operations and a regional rural development program.
1.9   Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first
has involved emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce
water resources, including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of
these projects has been tremendous, their poverty effects hiave been limited and often
3
Formacao Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor Puiblico - Nordeste dc. Brasil: 1960-93, SUDENE, Recife,
1995.



-4 -
temporary. The second approach, that of integrated subregional development programs,
has included initiatives like the Sertanejo Project and the Bank-financed
POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10 POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on
specific microregions within each of the nine Northeast states and the northern part of
Minas Gerais. They were comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve
agricultural efficiency, raise rural incomes and increase employment. They typically
included components for agricultural modernization (extension, research, credit,
marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural water supply, roads and irrigation)
and social investments (education, health and community development). Many important
sectoral initiatives were first piloted under the POLONORDESTE projects: farm
management extension techniques; integrated farm unit research for small-scale
agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land redistribution initiatives
and modern land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school calendar reforms
for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11  Nevertheless, evaluation of POLONORDESTE by the Bank in the early 1980s
showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The micro-
regions supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of the
whole Northeast; poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms
relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies. The Federal Government frequently
failed to provide adequate counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts,
with damaging effects on the projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation.
Consequently, less than one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries, as
seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by administration and overheads.
1.12 Sectoral Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program. These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the
mid-1980s. On the one hand, the lessons learned from some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of
single-sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties
of multiple components. A series of sectoral operations, such as Northeast land titling,
education, health, and irrigation, resulted in the next few years.
1.13  With respect to integrated rural development, this was still considered to be a
viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded
statewide in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be
drastically reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) was established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of
small farm families in the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during
1985-87 individual loans for the ten states in an amount totaling US$826.7 million. But,
through 1993, with the exception of one component supporting small community projects
(known as the APCR), implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and



- 5 -
performance in meeting basic objectives was weak. Some of the main causes were quite
similar to the causes of poor perfornnance under the earlier POLONORDESTE projects:
chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions led to almost constant
counterpart funding shortages and widespread deteriorationi of many of the public
institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP. The Federal Government devolved
some responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were still
highly centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were
generally non-participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local
levels was limited.
1.14 On the other hand, the innovative APCR community-based components (para.
1.13), which stressed community organization and relied on local planning and
implementation, were noticeably more successful. They acknowledged the expressed
needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per family
relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components.
1.15 Reformulated NRDP. On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed into a community-based development program, drawing
both on the successful experience of the APCR small comrnunity projects component and
on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. Performance has since improved markedly. Rural
communities are participating in the identification, financing and implementation of
subprojects that meet their most pressing needs, increase their sense of project ownership,
and have a much sharper focus on poverty alleviation. The reformulated NRDP is
covering all members of poor rural communities and not only those with productive assets,
extending beyond production and income, and based on a 'matching grant" mechanism
linked to beneficiary contributions towards subproject cosl;. The State Governments are
fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the corresponding sense of "ownership" of
the program has also improved.
1.16  Based on implementation in the almost three years since reformulation, as well as
the earlier experience of the APCR components, certain facts are now clear. The program
has generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and favorable multiplier
effects--with replicability evident in other programs--and has mobilized additional funds
from municipalities and communities. As much as 93% of disbursements are reaching
targeted beneficiaries, and diversion of funds for non-intended uses has been sharply
reduced. The NRDP's participatory approach has induced greater community
organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and demonstrated that rural
communities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the municipal level to
alleviate poverty. Investments ifnded by the program have been of satisfactory quality
and less costly than those executed by public agencies. While the reformulated program
was not expected to change the basic agricultural economy in the Northeast, it has
successfully reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries.
Several field investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The



-6-
consensus, from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they
have had a positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects,
on employment and incomes of beneficiaries. In so doing, the NRDP has initiated a
process of local accumulation and, albeit still on a small scale, elevated the socio-
economic standards of beneficiary communities that will progressively allow them to enter
formal market channels. Additionally, the program, by providing essential infrastructure
and social services to these communities, has relieved some of the budgetary burden of the
Northeast states and municipalities. A summary evaluation of the reformulated NRDP is
provided in Annex B.
The State of Pernambuco
1.17 The State of Pernambuco covers a territory of 98,300 km2 whose long east/west
and narrow north/south configuration incorporates a range of agro-climatic regions and
micro-regions which have molded its socio-economic and productive patterns of
development. The state is divided into three major regions: the Mata Atldntica represents
10% of state territory, has an abundant rainfall of up to 2,000 mm per year, fertile soils
and is the main crop-growing region; the Agreste covers 20% of the state, and has rainfall
of 650 to 900 mm per year with a dry period of up to seven months; and, the Sertdo,
which makes up 70% of the state and has an annual rainfall below 500 mm and irregular
dry periods of up to ten months. Some 90% of the state is within the semi-arid "drought
polygon" characterized by severe, cyclical and often protracted drought.
1.18  Certain indicators illustrate the socioeconomic predicament of Pemambuco's 7.1
million inhabitants: (i) 50% of heads of households (73% in rural areas) have a monthly
income less than or equivalent to one minimum wage (currently about US$112); and (ii)
illiteracy affects 25% of the total population and 59% of the rural population (1991).
About one-third of Pemambuco's population lives in rural areas, where access to basic
infrastructure and services is grossly inadequate: 72% of rural households lack access to
proper sanitation facilities, and 92% have inadequate access to safe water (1991).
1.19  As in the rest of the Northeast, poverty in Pemambuco is closely correlated with
geography. The rural poor are primarily smallholders, sharecroppers and wage workers,
who depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating activities in which the subsistence
production of maize, beans, manioc and rice, and small livestock predomninates. Their
well-being fluctuates with changes in the agro-climatic conditions. In the semi-arid and
transition zones, rainfall is scarce and highly irregular, yielding crops of low quality and
income-generating capacity. In addition to the lack of reliable water supply, these small
farmers lack modem production technology and basic infrastructure to store harvests to
take advantage of cyclical price fluctuations. Consequently, family income is highly
variable, and there is little opportunity for savings.
1.20 State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty. The State Government of
Pemambuco is concerned with the socio-economic conditions of its rural population,



-7 -
particularly in the semi-arid region. The Government's strategy is to address poverty
through increased employment and income, social organization, education, natural
resource conservation and greater participation of small, marginalized communities in the
identification of their priorities and the delivery of services. The State Government is
mindful of the lessons from the NRDP which stress decentralization and local
development. The Government is stimulating local economies through support for micro-
enterprise development, including small family farms, and small-scale agro-processing and
manufacturing which also create employment. It also supports the development of
cooperatives, the work of NGOs in organizing community-based productive ventures and
in facilitating access to credit and technology, and aims to provide poor populations with
the physical infrastructure and services necessary to improve the quality of life and
generate income and employment opportunities.
1.21  Experience with Previous Bank Rural Development Projects in Pernambuco.
The State of Pernambuco has undertaken two Bank-financed rural development projects
since 1979 under POLONORDESTE and the NRDP, as well as other rural poverty
projects such as TERRA NOSSA, focusing on land reform. Pernambuco's performance
under Bank-financed projects prior to the 1993 NRDP reformulation was generally
consistent with the integrated rural development and NRDP project experience of other
Northeastern states (paras. 1.8 to 1.16).
1.22  The NRDP-Pernambuco project closed on June 30, 1996, after a six-month
extension of the original closing date. Under the reformulated NRDP, Pernambuco's
performance was initially poor but, thanks to the efforts and commitment of the current
State Government, greatly improved in the past year and a half After reformulation,
US$19.5 million were disbursed and US$3.2 million committed which, together with the
cancellation of US$20 million in December 1994, left a balance of only US$0.8 million.
The annual rate of disbursements after reformulation topped US$9 million, pushed
forward by a US$1 million per month disbursement rate in 1996. By closing, rural
community associations had submitted some 4,159 subproject applications, of which 1,237
were financed and/or completed. 55% of the approved investments were infrastructure
subprojects, 37% were productive and 8% were social subprojects.
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP)
1.23  The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program
(1975-84), a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the
present). The NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, has focused entirely on client-
driven subproject investments implemented by the comnmurdties themselves, with
decentralized project management at the state and municipal levels and more transparent
decision-making and accountability for project performance. Implementation has provided
important lessons for the proposed project (see Annex B for further details):



- 8 -
(a)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to
state and local governments ensures more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly defined
and well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the
misuse of funds;
(b)   Poverty-targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation; and ensure
that project resources do reach the poorest communities;
(c)   Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of
ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation
and maintenance of project investments. Beneficiary participation in the
selection, execution, supervision and financing of project investments
ensures that investments respond to true, perceived needs, generates cost
savings and increases accountability at the local level; the organization of
poor communities heightens their awareness of available programs and
services, facilitates their participation and increases subproject cost-
effectiveness;
(d)   Sustainability of project investments has greater potential wvhen the
municipalities and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-
sharing arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.
For example, the participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal
Council component (FUMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better
selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries. Sustainability is
also promoted when communities themselves assume greater
responsibilities and continue to voice their demands in a concrete fashion to
influence public investment expenditure at the local level;
(e)    A widely disseminated and carefully designed publicity campaign is
essential to ensure transparency and proper knowledge of the program's
objectives and contents by all potential beneficiaries;
(f)    Technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable
them to identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby
augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical
assistance should also be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their
planning, management and financial capacity; and, the quality of the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), whether it provides technical assistance directly
or through partner entities, is a critical factor in project success and may
entail the contracting of local and/or international organizations to
strengthen its institutional capacities;



-9 -
(g)   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit
costs simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process,
facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and
improves the quality of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater
participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks in the
subproject cycle;
(h)   Supervision, both during and after subproject implementation, is an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It has to be
reinforced at all levels and involve local entiities closest to the communities,
particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs; and
(i)    A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the
subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary
information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential
management and planning tool.
1.24 The design of the proposed Pernambuco Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has
taken into account these lessons, which are consistent in rnany respects with lessons
learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based
development programs. The project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot
municipal funds program (para. 2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making and
resource allocation to municipal and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam
resulting from state intervention in the minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage
municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will employ a poverty targeting
methodology based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and
beneficiary levels, and backed by a strong system of operational checks and balances to
thwart mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, an improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce
the targeting mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle (paras.
2.31-2.40). Equally important, for simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation,
evaluation and supervision, the Project Operational Manual will establish standard
subproject designs, technical and financial parameters, and cost indicators for the most
frequently requested subprojects. In addition, funds for technical assistance to rural
communities and municipalities will be facilitated, to actively promote the organization of
the poorest areas to enable their participation, foster comnunity capacity and
empowerment, and encourage the active participation of NGOs and local grassroots
organizations. Finally, the additional resources (and a larger share of Bank financing) will
be allocated specifically to supervision by the PCU and local entities, that would not only
secure the quality of project investments but also ensure that implementation bottlenecks,
if any, are quickly resolved so as to allow smooth and successful operation of the
subprojects.



- 10-
2.   THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1   The proposed project is based on the positive results of the reformulated Northeast
Rural Development Program (NRDP). Evaluation by the Brazilian Government, FAO/CP
and the World Bank has confirmed that the reformulated NRDP, itself the culmination of
two decades of experience, has succeeded in introducing an effective model for rural
poverty alleviation in the Northeast. This model has now been field-tested for about three
years, and the Northeast State Governments are developing projects which would expand
its coverage. The proposed project in Pernambuco would be one of the second group of
follow-on operations, succeeding the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects for Bahia, Ceara
and Sergipe, which were approved by the Board on June 29, 1995.
2.2   The Brazilian administration is preoccupied with the level of poverty nationwide,
but particularly in the Northeast and its rural areas, and has declared the Northeast a
priority for public development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's
effort to combat poverty and hunger in Brazil is the Comunidade Solid6iria program
launched in early 1995, a broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty
programs and projects, focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe.
Implementation is decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment,
and concentrating on four main themes: rural development, income and employment
generation, food and nutrition -- which has tended to receive most of the focus in the early
stages -- and urban services. The proposed Pernambuco Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
is fully consistent with this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported
NRDP experience in Northeast Brazil (paras. 1.12-1.16).
2.3   The project is also fully supportive of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 29, 1995, and updated in the CAS
Progress Report discussed by the Board on June 20, 1996. The CAS identifies poverty
reduction as the central objective of the Bank's assistance efforts in Brazil, and recognizes
that policy dialogue and lending should be directed to the states, given their fundamental
role in the provision of infrastructure and social services. The CAS recommends specific
anti-poverty policies, particularly through the expansion of ongoing efforts to decentralize
and shift expenditure and implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to
the States, municipalities and local communities. The proposed project is an important
factor in meeting the Bank's main objective in Brazil. As the principal donor engaged in a
sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to address rural poverty



- 11 -
issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well placed to support this next phase of
development initiatives for Pernambuco.
Project Objectives
2.4   The project would assist the State Government of Pernambuco to alleviate rural
poverty and its consequences by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure,
and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) decentralizing
resource allocation and decision-making to local levels by supporting community-based
municipal councils and beneficiary associations in investmenl: planning and
implementation; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor during a period of
macroeconomic reform and fiscal adjustment; and (d) leveraging resources mobilized at
the community and municipal levels. The project is expected to lay groundwork for, and
consolidate, participatory institutions and processes at the municipal and community
levels. The project would ensure that funds reach the poorest municipalities and
communities, and would expand the successful strategy of decentralization and
participation tested under the reformulated NRDP.
Project Components
2.5   The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$46.2 million or 90% of total base cost), which would
support small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$2.6 million or 5% of total
base cost), which would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical
assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the
project; and (c) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.6
million or 5% of total base cost), which would finance project coordination and activities
to provide feedback on project performance and impact.
A. Community Subprojects
2.6   The project would provide grants to rural community associations to finance small-
scale subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as priority
investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of many
types, broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural water supply, electrification, local
road improvements, and small bridges), social (e.g., day care centers, school or health post
rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-scale community agro-
processing, communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes). Subproject selection is
demand-driven and based on community preferences. The project would establish a
negative list of subproject types ineligible for financing and, for productive subprojects in



- 12 -
particular, additional and rigorous eligibility criteria4. Subproject proposals would observe
standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in a detailed Project Operational Manual, which sets forth procedures and
guidelines for implementation. The Operational Manual, based on the manual already in
use for the reformulated NRDP project, will reflect the lessons learned during the past
three years of implementation. During appraisal, agreements were reached on the needed
improvements to the NRDP Operational Manual. During negotiations, the Bank reviewed
a complete revised draft of the Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by the
Borrower that all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance
with the Operational Manual (para. 3.1 (a)). Adoption of the Operational Manual would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(a)).
2.7    The identification, preparation and implementation of all subprojects financed
under the project will be the responsibility of the beneficiary rural communities (see paras.
2.31 to 2.40 for a detailed description of the community subproject cycle). Three different
delivery mechanisms will distinguish how the subprojects are approved and the respective
financing arranged:
(a)    State Community Schemes (PAC). PAC was the original subprojects
component of the reformulated NRDP. Under PAC, rural. communities
submit their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU screens, approves and releases funds
for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is
expected that up to US$12.9 million equivalent, or 25% of total base costs,
would be invested under this subcomponent over the four-year project
implementation period;
(b)    Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). FUMAC was tested and
proven successful under the reformulated NRDP. In FUMAC, decision-
making on subproject approval is delegated by the State to project
Municipal Councils, composed of community members and representatives
of civil society and municipal authorities. The Municipal Councils
prioritize the demands presented by rural communities through local
consensus-building and approve subprojects, within an indicative annual
budget, for financing by the PCU. The selection process would be the
basis of targeting in the project since the communities themselves, through
their participation in the project Municipal Councils, determnine where
project resources can best be applied based on their first-hand knowledge
4   Eligible productive subprojects would be those which provide services which benefit a large number
of conununity members and for which a fee is charged for operation and maintenance. Productive
subprojects, as with infrastructure and social subprojects, must be property of the association as a
whole and not of select members. For each type of productive subproject, a set of operational
guidelines (regulamento de uso), developed by the PCU, would be provided to the association and
must be adopted. In addition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of technical
assistance for subproject implementation and subsequent operation.



- 13 -
of local investment needs. It is expected that at least US$29.3 million
equivalent, or 57% of total base costs, would be invested under this
subcomponent.
(c)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This new
subcomponent would be a pilot variant of FIJMAC, in which selected
Municipal Councils would prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by
rural communities and then would finance them within the context of an
annual budget, which the State PCU would clelegate to the Municipal
Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget envelope would be
allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution formula,
based on clear and measurable criteria, such -as rural population and
previous year's performance, for implementation of an Annual Operating
Plan (POA) prepared by each Municipal Council and approved by the
PCU. The Municipal Council would transfer funds to beneficiary
associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is expected
that at least US$4.0 million equivalent, or 8%No of total base costs, would be
invested under this subcomponent.
2.8   Each subcomponent represents a greater degree of decentralization of decision-
making and resource allocation responsibilities. Moving from PAC to FUMAC to
FUMAC-P, the control over project investment planning becomes increasingly local and
rural communities gain greater voice through their representation on the Municipal
Council as well as through their participation in its decisions. This institutionalization of
the participatory process would protect it from political fluctuation, and would eventually
lead to stronger partnerships between communities and Municipal Councils and their
respective municipal governments in determining the use of public resources.
2.9   Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the
course of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents
gradually expanding. The continued existence of PAC would facilitate participation in the
project of those communities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the
political will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. When a municipality is well
organized and receptive to participatory decision-making processes, it enters FUMAC, a
Municipal Council is formed and resource allocation decisions are made at the local level.5
Once the Municipal Council demonstrates effectiveness in prioritization of demands and
subproject supervision and a capacity to manage resources, the municipality is promoted
from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, and henceforth the actual resources are administered at the
local level by the Municipal Council based on locally-determined investment planning.
5  Under the reformulated NRDP in Pernambuco, 15 FUMAC Municipal Councils were formed. These
Councils will continue as FUMAC Councils under the proposed project or may be upgraded to
FUMAC-P Councils.



- 14 -
Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents to
accommodate the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
2.10  In compliance with Brazilian law, beneficiaries must form legally-constituted civil
associations in order to be eligible to receive financing under the project. Disbursements
to the beneficiary associations would occur through agreements (convenios) with the PCU
and/or project Municipal Councils. During appraisal, understandings were reached on
draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community
associations for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC,
FUMAC-P and PAC subcomponents. The final model agreements would form part of the
Project Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject
costs, either in cash, kind or labor, and would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the investments. The minimum level of contributions expected
from the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government would be specified in a
cost-sharing matrix in the Project Operational Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.11   The Institutional Development component (US$2.6 million or 5% of base costs)
will finance appropriate technical assistance and training in order for each group
participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively
carry out its responsibilities (see Annex D). The project is expected to lay the
groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory institutions and processes at the municipal
and community levels through the community subproject approach, described above, in
which well-organized communities with sound, carefully prepared proposals are provided
with financial support for investments, and in which FUMAC Municipal Councils which
demonstrate effective decision-making capacity are promoted to FUMAC-.P and rewarded
with their own investment budget.
2.12  To encourage this process and to accompany the decentralized implementation
framework of the project, technical assistance and training would be provided for the
beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, and the PCU, as well as other participating
entities (Annex E). For example, to derive optimal benefits from subproject investments,
the beneficiary associations will need accessible support for community organization and
subproject preparation and execution, as well as for training in operation and maintenance
techniques. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their decision-
making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot
program, to create capacity for investment planning and financial administration. In
addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range of technical and
managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU
will need training to enhance its own project coordination and supervision skills. Also,
because the fiscal situation of the State affects both project implementation and state
counterpart funding, technical assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve the State's



- 15 -
.capacity to address the inherent causes of its fiscal deficit situation. The instruments for
achieving this capacity building would include a combination of workshops, technical
exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance, drawing upon local
expertise within the state --local extensionists, technical consultants, universities, NGOs,
and other local service providers-- as well as national and international technical assistance
agencies. To this effect, the component would finance consultant services, training
materials and courses, seminars, workshops, and related operational costs.
2.13   The implementation of the institutional development component would be
decentralized, and the provision of and accountability for technical assistance and training
would occur increasingly at the local level. In particular, prcject Municipal Councils will
play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-building activities for community associations
in their jurisdictions. Municipal Councils, provided with model terms of reference
prepared by the PCU, would contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with
the PCU, which would then release funds for that purpose. Institutional development
activities can be broadly categorized into five areas: (a) mobilization assistance and
training for participating communities. Organized and contracted by the PCU and
Municipal Councils, assistance would be provided for the organization and strengthening
of community associations, identification of viable investments, subproject preparation,
and operation and maintenance of investments; (b) capacity-building programs for
Municipal Councils. Organized by the PCU, the programs would include intensive
training on the role of Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational Manual,
subproject evaluation and supervision and related topics such as environmental assessment
of subprojects for each Municipal Council under the project, as well as participatory
planning and financial management training for FUMAC-P Councils; (c) specialized skills
training for all participating entities. Based on needs, expert advice and "on-the-job
training" by local providers would be contracted by the PCU, Municipal Councils and
groups of community associations, in areas such as the use of standard designs,
monitoring techniques, and financial administration as well as technical support (e.g., for
groups of community associations on water use); (d) technical assistance for State reform.
The Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through the PCU, will have access to technical
assistance funds (US$0.6 million or 1% of base costs) for co:nsultant services and studies
required for administrative and other state reforms. During appraisal, agreements were
reached with the State on the content and implementation arrangements for this Technical
Assistance subcomponent; and (e) workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils
and beneficiary associations, to exchange experience under the project. These "best
practice" exchanges could also extend to seminars joining all PCUs of the ten
Northeastern states to disseminate successful experiences across states.



- 16 -
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
2.14 This component (US$2.6 million, or 5% of total base costs) would support overall
project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the effectiveness and
quality of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the
PCU, for overall coordination of project activities, and a statewide information campaign
to disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary
communities, to increase awareness, transparency and participation. For this campaign,
the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and development of
the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including posters, leaflets, radio spots and
videos. The preparation of a statewide information campaign. acceptable to the Bank.
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(b)).
2.15  Given the importance of supervision to the overall impact of the program, project
supervision (Annex J) will be intensified under the project and, accordingly, will be
allocated half of the component's resources (US$1.3 million, or about 3% of base costs).
Project supervision will provide the PCU with the necessary information on project
performance to make managerial decisions, such as the provision of technical assistance or
training, the correction of departures from project guidelines, and the promotion of project
municipalities from FUMAC to FUMAC-P. In line with the decentralized implementation
of the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the state and local levels will
correspond to the PCU and the project Municipal Councils, respectively. Supervision
activities to be financed under the project include operational expenses for field visits and
subcontracted services from NGOs and other participating agencies.
2.16  This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a Management Information System (MIS). To
function as an efficient management tool, the project MIS (Annex H), originally designed
under the NRDP, would be improved and made more user-friendly and performance-
oriented. It would contain key technical, financial and socio-economic information on
subprojects, as well as cost and other physical indicators. MIS-generated project reports,
including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress reports, would facilitate
subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance. Project
performance and impact indicators would be regularly updated to take stock of project
implementation and included in the semi-annual progress reports. A Project
Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project Performance Indicators were finalized and
agreed at appraisal. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the
project would finance experts in information technology and project management: (i) to
improve the MIS; and (ii) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical
parameters from the most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a
range of values for these indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly.
These adjustments would then be incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.



- 17 -
2.17  Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and
sustainability of common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of
community-based procurement; (b) an implementation review, carried out at the mid-term
of project implementation, which would include beneficiary consultations to generate an
evaluation of project performance and impact as perceived by the ultimate beneficiaries;
and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline evaluation to
establish indicators of socio-economic impact and a final evaluation of the project using
these indicators. Annex H contains a detailed description of the studies to be financed
under the project.
2.18  During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would
be maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly
information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject
activities and performance of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year
(para. 3.1(b)); a baseline impact evaluation study would be completed within one year of
loan effectiveness, a mid-term review would be carried out at the end of the second year
of the project, and a full impact evaluation would be executed at project completion
(para. 3.1(b)). The establishment, by the State. of effective project monitoring and
evaluation arrangements would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2 (c)).
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.19  Project Coordinating Unit. The Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria do
Planejamento - SEPLAN) of the State of Pernambuco would implement the project
through the PCU, represented by PRORURAL, which is the focal point for project
administration and for communication with the Bank and the State Government.
PRORURAL is the project's principal liaison for the Municipal Councils and for those
community associations located in PAC municipalities. Under the proposed project,
PRORURAL will shed some of the executive responsibilities, that it held under the
reformulated NRDP, delegating these to Municipal Councils and other participating
entities at the local level, and will concentrate on its monitoring, technical assistance and
supervision responsibilities.
2.20 PRORURAL boasts over a decade of experience in rural development, having
headed the POLONORDESTE and NRDP projects as Technical Unit. Currently, to
strengthen its field presence PRORURAL is in the process of restructuring and will
establish ten regional offices, each with three or more technical staff, in function of the
demand presented, in addition to its headquarters in Recife. This increased field presence
reflects the TU's focus on monitoring and supervision and will provide needed additional
support to Municipal Councils. Under this new structure, the Supervisor and three
Department Directors (Planning, Operations, and Administration and Finance) would be



- 18 -
supported by 8 section chiefs and about 80 professional staff, of which at least 30 would
be in the field, and corresponding administrative staff.
2.21  PRORURAL's principal tasks under the project would include: (i) project planning
and coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project's MIS; (ii) promoting the project and encouraging participation
of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and private sector entities; (iii) preparing
project implementation reports and organizing evaluation exercises; (iv) ensuring timely
and adequate provision of loan and state counterpart funds; (v) appraising and approving
all PAC subproject proposals; (vi) entering into subproject agreements with community
associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils (FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements
with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to transfer subproject funds and monitor their use;
(vii) overseeing all monitoring and supervision activities under the project to ensure
compliance with project guidelines and to improve the quality of subprojects and project
interventions; (viii) ensuring that environmental guidelines for subproject approval and
implementation are followed; (ix) providing technical assistance to the FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (x) preparing statements of expenditure (SOEs) and
applications for reimbursement; and (xi) ensuring that procurement, disbursement and
auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are followed.
2.22  Assurances were provided by the State of Pernambuco at negotiations that
proposed POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to the Bank in
October of each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as
soon as they are approved by the Borrower's Legislative Assembly; and that adequate
counterpart funding would be made available for the project in a timely manner by the
State (para. 3.1 (c)). Approval of targets for any given year will be contingent upon
performance in the previous year, including a thorough analysis of the actual demand from
communities, of subproject costs actually observed, and of the number of uncompleted
subprojects.
2.23  Project Municipal Councils. Municipal Councils are the key entity for the
targeting of project benefits and the allocation of resources under the proposed project.
By their nature as open and representative bodies which build consensus on priorities, the
project Municipal Councils instill transparency into the decision-making process for
FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments. The Councils would comprise representatives
from: (a) rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious
organizations and rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and
municipal government officials. While the composition of these Councils may vary from
one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities and civil society
would make up at least 80% of the Councils' membership. PRORURAL would participate
in the Councils in an advisory capacity.
2.24  The Councils would receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the
beneficiary associations during regularly scheduled meetings which are widely publicized



- 19 -
and which the public is encouraged to attend. The Councils would deliberate and
prioritize the subproject proposals presented according to their determination of the needs
of the different communities, based on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing
infrastructure of each community in relation to the rest of the municipality, the type of
subproject to be financed and its potential to improve the quality of life of the beneficiary
population; and the demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the
identification of the subproject and its commitment to the operation and maintenance of
the subproject. Decisions to approve subprojects would be raade by majority of votes and
based on pre-established technical criteria and/or standard designs. Detailed criteria, rules
and procedures for the Municipal Councils' structure and operations are included in the
Project Operational Manual.
2.25  The Municipal Councils would be entrusted with the following responsibilities: (a)
promoting the project in their areas; (b) facilitating assistance to the communities for
organizational strengthening and subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they
have approved to PRORURAL for financing; under FUMAC-P, the Councils will
themselves be responsible for managing the funds allocated to them and signing the
subproject agreements with the respective beneficiary associations (Annex F). Under
FUMAC and FUMAC-P, the Municipal Councils foster partnerships among the
community associations, the municipal governments and the State Government to share
the costs of the subprojects and therefore leverage the loan fimds to finance increased
numbers of subprojects.
2.26  Community Associations. Community associations are the foundation of project
implementation. These associations are responsible for formulating ideas for subprojects
and submitting these proposals to the Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-
P) or PRORURAL (under PAC) for approval. Once a subprcject has been approved, the
community association enters into a legally binding agreement with PRORURAL and/or
Municipal Council through which the funds to implement the subproject are passed to the
association. The association is responsible for all procurement6 and record-keeping during
the implementation of the subproject, as was practiced successfully in the reformulated
NRDP. Beneficiary associations contribute to subproject costs, either in cash, kind or
labor, and are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the investments.
Project Technical Assistance and Training Arrangements
2.27  Technical assistance and training to beneficiaries is an indispensable input to
successful and sustainable subproject investments. Technical assistance and training
would be provided to beneficiary communities via two mechanisms (see Annex E): (a) the
6  Beneficiary associations may request assistance from the PCU for procurement under subprojects.



- 20 -
institutional development component (paras. 2.11-2.13); and (b) a percentage of
subproject costs targeted to technical assistance. The Institutional Development
component provides flexibility and is not tied to any particular subproject(s), so that
communities can receive assistance even prior to subproject preparation and after
subproject completion. The component also allows for savings because of economies of
scale at the local level, since assistance can be contracted for several comrnunities at once
(e.g., retainer contracts for operating expenses of local extensionists). Finally, the
operation of the component is decentralized and encourages local-level accountability.
Municipal Councils will be responsible for applying resources from the component toward
assistance to communities in their jurisdictions and all technical assistance and training
agents hired by the Municipal Councils or by PRORIJRAL and approved by the Councils
(in FllMAC) would be held accountable to the Councils for their performance.
2.28  Complementary to the Institutional Development component, each community
association has the option of directing up to 8% of the cost of each subproject to hire
technical assistance and training support tailored to its particular subproject. A proposal
for the use of this percentage would be included in the subproject application. In addition,
because technical assistance should extend into the operation and maintenance period of
their subprojects, particularly for productive subprojects, community associations should
include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out of O&M funds
maintained by each association. As part of their regular supervision efforts, PRORURAL
and the Municipal Councils would monitor the frequency and quality of technical
assistance and training provided to beneficiaries.
Targeting and Graduation
2.29  Beneficiary targeting would occur at three levels: (a) geographically by poverty
level and other characteristics of the municipality; (b) geographically within municipalities
to target rural settlements and communities; and (c) community-based selection of poor
beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area. The project area includes
all municipalities outside of the metropolitan region of Recife, the state capital. Project
beneficiaries, however, include only those rural communities located in settlements of less
than 7,500 people, resulting in a project target population of about 2.6 million people.
The target population therefore lives in small, more isolated rural areas with greater
representation of the rural poor. The third and principal level of targeting is community-
based. Increased decentralization of subproject selection through the expanded FUMAC
and FUMAC-P programs will further strengthen the project's capacity to reach the most
needy communities in the project area. The Municipal Councils' prioritization process is
the basis of targeting in the project since the communities themselves, through their
majority participation in the Councils, determine where project resources will best be
applied based on their first-hand knowledge of community socio-economic conditions and
local investment needs. The clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils'
functioning, are also important for targeting poor beneficiaries at the lowest level. The



- 21 -
effectiveness of the targeting methodology in directing project benefits to the poor would
be assessed through the project monitoring system and through annual performance
reviews and the implementation review (Annex H). Details on targeting mechanisms are
included in Annex C. During appraisal, agreements were reached with the State of
Pernambuco on these targeting mechanisms; these understandings would be reflected in
the final Project Operational Manual.
2.30 Graduation of Communities and Municipalities. The demand-driven
community development model presented in the proposed project is expected to increase
the income-generating capacity and standards of living in the beneficiary communities.
Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest rural communities, certain
communities with better socio-economic standing relative to others would gradually
receive fewer investment resources during the course of project implementation. These
communities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and other benefits from this
and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access to other sources of
financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary. In order to
formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community graduation
strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for sustainable asset-
accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and community
organization, would progressively be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage (para.
2.45) and then eventually cease to be eligible for project matching grants (see Annex C).
To make this determination, profiles of beneficiary communities would be developed and
would include information on benefits from the reformulated NRDP and other public
programs, existing infrastructure and access to social services, indicators of
accumulation/savings (e.g., farm animals and equipment) and other indicators of
community well-being. The information would be collected from subproject proposals
submitted by the communities, incorporated into the MIS, and regularly updated through
monitoring and supervision exercises (see Annex H). The point at which a community
would provide a higher counterpart contribution and the subsequent "take-off' point, the
point at which a community would graduate from the project, would be estimated at the
end of the second year of the project, based on a study comparing community profiles and
indicators from the baseline impact evaluation. Using this analysis, PRORURAL (for
PAC) and the Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), with the support of
PRORURAL, would graduate those communities having reached the "take-off' point. As
communities graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities would
gradually receive less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate from the
program as well. During appraisal, agreements were reached with the State of
Pernambuco on a community graduation strategy; these understandings would be reflected
in the final Project Operational Manual.
Community Subproject Cycle
2.31  Mobilization. The critical juncture in the community subproject cycle is the initial
stage when communities mobilize existing associations or form new associations which



- 22 -
can then benefit from the project. At the outset of and throughout the project, a publicity
campaign, carefully programmed and targeted to participating communities by
PRORURAL to create a level playing field for access to project funds, would disseminate
information about the project and its procedures to stimulate demand from potential
beneficiaries across the state. Some communities already have significant levels of
organization, either traditionally or from previous development projects in the area, and
are poised to benefit immediately from the project. However, for those less organized
communities, the project, through the Institutional Development component, would
actively extend mobilization assistance through the services of NGOs or accredited state
agents (e.g., EMATER extension agents) who know the communities well and can serve
as catalysts for organization. These NGOs or accredited agents would mobilize the
communities and provide them with technical assistance for identifying and prioritizing
their needs and demands, preparing subprojects and forming associations, in order that all
communities in the project area can participate in project benefits. Through the MIS and
regular supervision, PRORURAL and project Municipal Councils would monitor the ex-
post allocation of project benefits, which would then facilitate targeting assistance to those
municipalities which had not yet received support.
2.32  Prioritization and Preparation. Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. Standard documentation for
subproject proposals, developed by PRORURAL, would be distributed to the beneficiary
associations to facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process. To ensure the
quality of the investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when
preparing subprojects, the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized
technical designs, including simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters (e.g.,
cost per physical unit or per beneficiary) for the most frequent types of investments.
Beneficiary associations may request technical assistance for more sophisticated or less
common subproject types.
2.33  Various standard designs already exist, and others would be developed under the
project (Annex G). In some cases, specialists would be contracted to prepare the designs,
based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank. In others, PRORURAll would gather
and adapt existing designs (e.g., for pipes or box culverts, retaining walls, fords, and decks
of bridges) and make them available to the Municipal Councils and associations. Standard
designs will include the following considerations, where appropriate: (a) engineering
aspects; (b) technical, financial and economic feasibility; (c) operation and maintenance;
(d) recommendations on environmental impact; and (e) social demand. This process will
be facilitated by the ongoing Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in Bahia, Ceara and
Sergipe, and by the fact that other Northeast States will be developing similar projects
and, hence, there will be considerable scope for dissemination and exchange of designs
among the professionals of PRORURAL and the other State PCUs.
2.34 Appraisal. The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or PRORURAL (under PAC). The
appraisal procedures would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines



- 23 -
and eligibility criteria, including those related to the technical, environmental and cost
specifications contained in the Project Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary
association's commitment to provide the required contribution and to take full
responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the investments to be
funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from other
subprojects, assessment of past performance. Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from
standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal for review by
the Municipal Councils and/or PRORURAL, as would proposed investments which fall
outside the range of standardized costs.
2.35  Financing. In order to disburse funds for subprojecl: implementation, agreements
(convenios) would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between F'RORURAL, the Municipal
Council and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b)
under FUMAC-P, between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject
funding and implementation, and between PRORURAL and the Municipal Council for
release of project funds; and (c) under PAC, between PRORURAL and the beneficiary
association for subproject funding and implementation. Such agreements would spell out
the terms and conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and
maintenance of the approved subprojects (para. 2.10). The final model agreements would
form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.36  Subproject Supervision. Direct supervision and administration of the subprojects
are carried out by a community-elected Supervision and Control Committee (Annex D),
which oversees subproject execution, including contracting. This Committee of 3 to 4
persons is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and non-
members within the community. PRORURAL, the Municipal Councils or other
contracted groups, would visit the subproject sites during subproject execution to liaise
with the Supervision Committee and monitor physical and financial progress.
PRORURAL would have overall responsibility for supervision of the entire subproject
cycle through the project Management Information System (MIS) (Annex H), which
would track subproject progress from initial submission to completion, and through
accounting and auditing arrangements.
2.37 Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of
project funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M
programs and techniques. Experience to date under the NRDP has been positive with
respect to O&M of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.38  Operational Checks and Balances. Operational checks and balances, included in
the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in the use
of project funds. Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making to
beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by the State
through audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by PRORURAL, is central to



- 24 -
the project strategy. However, this advancement would be accompanied by operational
disincentives, based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort,
penalties, to deter potential departures from project guidelines such as misappropriation,
mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M. Positive incentives for adherence to
project guidelines and or superior performance include the promotion of Municipal
Councils from FUMAC to FUMAC-P and, in FUMAC-P, a potential increase in the
Councils' budget envelope.
2.39 Project Monitoring and Supervision. Analysis of implementation will depend
on a database of subproject information from the project MIS, created under the
reformulated NRDP and to be improved under the project (para. 2.16). Inputs to the
database would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle
(e.g., identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement. See also Annex H).
Periodic processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the
characteristics and evolution of project implementation. PRORUIRAL, with project
Municipal Councils, will be responsible for meeting and reporting on the project
performance indicators (para. 2.16). The Bank's Recife Office would monitor project
performance indicators through the MIS, which the Recife Office will maintain and update
on a regular basis with inputs from the states, and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries. The Recife Office will also supervise subproject implementation
progress on a sample basis in the field (see Annex J for Supervision Plan).
2.40 Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual (Annex K) would
be adjusted and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on
experience to date. Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the
following points to update and/or include in the Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and
qualitative targets to be tracked with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria
used to select the municipalities included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of
municipalities among the three components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the
criteria for future redistribution; (d) guidelines for the pilot component (FlUMAC-P); (e)
arrangements for institutional strengthening and project administration, monitoring and
evaluation; (f) PRORURAL's new structure and additional technical support agreements
with other state agencies and non-governmental organizations; (g) FUMAC and FUMAC-
P Municipal Councils' composition, responsibilities and modus operandi, notably in
relation to FUMAC-P; (h) clear identification and description of responsibilities of
beneficiaries and municipalities in the implementation of subprojects; (i) guidelines for
environmental assessment of subprojects; (j) model agreements to be signed between
PRORURAL, the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (k) new standard
agreements between PRORURAL and the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between
the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and the beneficiary associations; (l)standard forms for
proposals to be submitted by potential beneficiaries; (m) the cost-sharing matrix for the
various types of subprojects; (n) the fund release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-
P; (o) operational incentives and penalties; (p) monitoring arrangements, including a new
classification of the various categories of subprojects; (q) standard project designs and
their role in the appraisal of proposals submitted by beneficiaries; (r) a revised standard



- 25 -
form of acceptance of completed works (ata de recebimento); and (s) targeting
mechanisms and a community graduation strategy.
Project Costs
2.41   The total project cost, calculated in July 1996 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$52 mnillion. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$11.3
million, equivalent to about 22% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at
US$51.4 million, and contingencies at US$0.6 million. Contingencies are low because
they apply only to the two components of institutional development (except for costs
associated with technical assistance for state reform) and project administration,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. For these activities, physical contingencies of
10% and 5% have been included, as well as annual price increases for local and foreign
costs (both expressed in US dollars). No contingency provisions have been applied to the
community subprojects component. Since the number of cormmunity investments is not
defined ex ante, it was considered preferable that any change in physical or price attributes
of subproject investments would be accommodated by a change in the number of
subprojects approved and implemented.
2.42  Investments in subprojects are expected to represent some 90% of the total base
cost (57% for FUMAC, 8% for FUMAC-P and 25% for PAC). The distribution among
different categories of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the four-
year implementation period, are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate
funds from the PAC to the FUMAC or FUhMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils
gain experience.
Financing Plan
2.43 The Borrower would be the State of Pernambuco. The loan wouldL be guaranteed
by the Federative Republic of Brazil. In accordance with the Progress Report on the CAS
reviewed by the Board on June 20, 1996, and in reference to the strategy to be adopted
for special assistance to poor States, the State of Pernambuco qualifies as a Borrower in
the context of this loan. The State Government of Pernambuco has formulated and is
adopting measures for administrative and other state reforms that will improve its fiscal
situation and ensure its capacity to contribute required counterpart funding to the project
and to repay the loan.7
2.44  The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan of US$39
7  An annex on Fiscal Sustainability and Technical Assistance for State Reform is available to the
Executive Directors upon request.



- 26 -
million equivalent would finance about 75% of the total project cost, and would disburse
against 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies,
75% of expenditures for community subprojects, 50% of expenditures for supervision
(except salaries) and 20% of incremental project administrative costs (except salaries) and
monitoring. The State Government would be responsible for the remaining 25% of total
project cost, with beneficiaries and their respective municipal governments contributing to
these counterpart funds. The State Government of Pernambuco is expected to meet its
counterpart funding obligations without difficulty. The State has consistently met all of its
counterpart funding obligations under the reformulated NRDP. The level of annual
funding required under the new project would be similar, and would be equivalent to less
than one percent of the State's total budget. Beneficiaries would provide a minimum of
10% of the total costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor or kind,
amounting to US$4.6 million. To enable the early start-up of project activities, retroactive
financing would be provided up to a maximum of US$3.9 million in respect of eligible
expenditures incurred up to twelve months before loan signing, but after July 1, 1996,
when the project was appraised. In addition to training for new Municipal Councils, the
State already has a substantial pipeline of community subprojects for review and financing
for which it can utilize this retroactive financing facility. Detailed project costs and the
financing plan are presented in the table below.
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs                 Local      Foreign        Total   % of Total     % of
(US$ Million)                                                   Baseline Costs  Foreign
A. Community Subprojects
1.FUMAC                          23.3         6.0         29.3       57           20
2. FUMAC-P                        3.2          0.8         4.0        8           20
3. PAC                           10.3          2.6        12.9       25           20
Subtotal                         36.8          9.4        46.2       90           20
B. Institutional Development/     1.4          1.2         2.6        5           46
Technical Assistance
C. Project Administration,        2.1          0.5         2.6        5           19
Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs             40.3         11.1        51.4       100          22
-Physical Contingencies           0.3         0.1          0.4       --          22
- Price Contingencies            0.1          0.1          0.2       --           50
Total Project Costs              40.7         11.3        52.0       --           22
Financing Plan
- State/municipal                 8.4          --         8.4a'      --           --
Governments
- Beneficiaries                  4.6           --          4.6       --           --
- IBRD                           27.7        11.3         39.0       --           --
- Total                          40.7        11.3         52.0        -           22
'/ Including US$1.7 million in local taxes



- 27 -
2.45  Cost Sharing and Sustainability. The cost estimates and average size of
community-managed subproject investments have been determined based on the
experience gained under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and
FUJMAC components. On this basis, the project is expected. to finance some 1,660
community-managed subprojects over four years. Counterpart contributions by the
beneficiary communities and their respective municipal governments would be made
according to a cost-sharing matrix, to be agreed with the State Government at appraisal
among the improvements to the Operational Manual (para. 2.40) and to be included in the
project Operational Manual. The minimum contribution of beneficiaries would be 10% --
to increase for beneficiaries from select communities as a first step toward graduation
from the project-- and of municipal governments would be 5% (recommended but not
required). The relative share contributed by each community and municipal government
would be based on agreement between the two parties with the Municipal Council. As in
the existing NRDP, ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the
sustainability of community investments. A key element would be the establishment of
sound arrangements under the project for the provision of operating, mainitenance and
capital replacement expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly
among types of subprojects and the availability of which would vary by municipality and
community association. The Project Operational Manual and the subproject agreements
(convenios) (para. 2.10) would contain specific guidelines concerning the funding of these
costs.
2.46  Experience since reformulation indicates that the sustainability of the proposed
projects is generally good. The community-based subprojects would finance relatively
small investments which can easily be maintained by the comamunities themselves, both
technically and financially, as demonstrated under the NRDP, even prior to the 1993
reformulation with the APCR component (see para. 1.13). Equally important is the fact
that client-driven subprojects, identified and implemented by the communities, have
demonstrated a high degree of ownership by the beneficiary groups and their consequent
willingness to maintain project investments. Under the reformulated NRDP, commitment
by each community group for operation and maintenance was a condition for the approval
of subprojects, and formed part of the subproject agreement: to be signed with the
beneficiary community. Compliance has been good and these same featu:res are built into
the proposed project. Finally, the formation and strengthening of project Municipal
Councils, which have been piloted successfully under the re-formulated NRDP and will
continue under the proposed project, stimulate grassroots participation in local
development, and thus foster longer-term project sustainability.
Procurement
2.47  Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct
contracting, and under subproject agreements signed between the Project Coordinating
Unit (PRORURAL) and the community. This procurement procedure is appropriate



- 28 -
because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote
areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed
directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work through the donation of
unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of willingness of the
beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (d)
would provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in the local development
process. There may be cases when the community lacks the capacity to make the
necessary purchases of equipment and materials. For such subprojects, PRORURAL
would make purchases on behalf of the communities, packaging the procurement for
several subprojects whenever possible. Procurement by PRORURAL would follow: (i)
National Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures acceptable to the Bank for
procurement of small works under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of price quotations (under US$ 100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.1 million
for goods and US$1.1 million for small works); or (ii) National Competitive Bidding --
NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB the standard bidding documents agreed between the
Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be used. ICB is not anticipated for any
goods or works under the project. Although the costs of individual subprojects may not
exceed US$50,000, the average size of the subprojects is expected to be less than
US$30,000. Approximately 420 subprojects are expected to be implemented yearly using
these procurement methods.
2.48 Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it
would be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community
contracting would be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of
reference agreed during appraisal. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would
be conducted using the project MIS (para. 2.16) in order to detect possible procurement
problems. Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex H) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be
conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.49  Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and PRORURAL would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts, short lists, and selection
procedures for technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank
when the value of the contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000
or more for individual consultants. All consultant terms of reference would be subject to
Bank prior review. During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of
Pernambuco that: (a) the above procurement arrangements would be followed (para.
3. 1(d)); and (b) the study of procurement by community contracting referred to in para.
2.48 would be carried out during the first year of the project and any agreed
recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 3. 1(d)). Procurement arrangements are
summarized in the table below.



- 29 -
Disbursements and Special Account
2.50   The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000, and the project's Closing Date
is June 30, 2001. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex I) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural development
projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated NRDP
and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The allocation of
loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex I.
2.51   During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Pernambuco that it
would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$3.5 million,
adequate to cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the
project. Disbursements for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), except for goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above
US$50,000.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Category                  NCB           (Other          Total Cost
Community Subprojects
Small Works 1                                         23.2              23.2
(under US$50,000)                                     (17.4)            (17.4)
Goods and Materials                                    18.5             18.5
(under US$50,000)                                     (14.0)            (14.0)
Small Works                             2.2                              2.2
(over US$50,000)                        (1.7)                           (1.7)
Small Works 2                                          1.1               1.1
(under US$100,000)                                    (0.9)             (0.9)
Goods and Materials 2                                  1.1               1.1
(over US$50,000)                                      ('0.9)            (0.9)
Consulting Services                                     3.7               3.7
(3.7)            (3.7)
Project Administration                                  2.2               2.2
(0.4)            (0.4)
Total                                    2.2            49.8             52.0
(1.7)        (:37.3)           (39.0)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank
Direct contracting
2 Shopping



- 30 -
2.52 The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by
PRORURAL in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by PRORURAL to
the Bank in Washington. Simultaneously, PRORURAL would send to the Bank's Recife
Office a copy of SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in
Washington, as well as updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a
rapid review of subproject eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and
PRORURAL management to maintain a cumulative account of the progress of project
implementation.
2.53 The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convenio) between PRORURAL and the community association (for PAC),
between PRORURAL, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between
the Municipal Council and the community association (FUMAC-P). Any contributions by
Municipal Governments would also be defined in the subproject agreements. Both
contributions would be computed as part of counterpart finance of the project.
Disbursements to the beneficiary associations would be made in one single installment to
facilitate the disbursement process. Simple, standard records, whose format would be
included in the Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community
representative. They would be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor
inputs, and would be subject to project audit procedures.
Accounts and Audits
2.54 PRORURAL would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts
of the Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community
associations would also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample
basis. Finally, independent auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.51).
Copies of the audit reports would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of
each state fiscal year. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comment
as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of
expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and
internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of Pernambuco provided assurances
during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to
withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to
whether the SOEs, together with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the
related withdrawals; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 3. l(f)).



- 31 -
Environmental Aspects
2.55  The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
Because of their relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects
would not have a significant effect on the environment. The project would, however,
ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types
of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing :negative effects on the
environment. The Operational Manual would specify key environmental criteria and
screening and enforcement procedures to be followed.
2.56  Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental
assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard format. For standard
subproject types, environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the
responsibility of PRORURAL and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types,
for which technical standards have not been developed, PRORURAL would screen the
subproject proposals in detail for environmental impact, contracting technical assistance
when necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent recommendations would be
incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P subprojects, the Municipal
Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with either PRORURAL or
with contracted technical assistance, such as NGOs. PROR-URAL has identified expertise
within the state for technical assistance purposes and would. include environmental
education and awareness as part of its training to Municipal. Councils. Enforcement of
environmental criteria would be ensured via subproject supervision by PRORURAL and
Municipal Councils.
Poverty Category
2.57  The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions.
Project municipalities in Pernambuco were determined based on poverty-related indicators
and other key parameters (see Annex C), which will ensure that project resources reach
those municipalities which contain a high concentration of rural poor. The project's
targeting mechanism is then centered on community-based selection, with the assumption
that local communities can best judge what their investmenrt priorities are in each
municipality. In particular, project Municipal Councils wouild be charged with targeting
poor rural dwellers and especially vulnerable groups, based on criteria including the socio-
economic situation of participating communities, their level of organization and the
availability of infrastructure and services. The transparency of rules and procedures for
Municipal Councils also would facilitate targeting under the project by permitting rural
communities to monitor local resource allocation decisions, Finally, communities which
eventually are determined to have capacity for sustainable asset-accumulation (savings)
and access to adequate social and economic infrastructure, would progressively be



- 32 -
charged a higher cost-sharing percentage and then would be graduated out of the program
(para. 2.30).
Women's Participation
2.58  The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong
correlation between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and
family units in general. Interestingly enough, they also show that community leaders in the
Northeast favor women's participation due to their willingness to provide assistance and
services, receptiveness to change, and greater likelihood of repaying debt. Responding to
lessons concerning women's participation, this project will seek to ensure that women's
activities (both traditional and innovative) are included; to support subprojects which
foster maternal/child health and day care facilities (the latter have proven invaluable under
the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in freeing rural women for income generating
activities); to target groups and activities in which female participation has proven
constructive; to provide technical assistance for women's subproject proposals and
implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the project and its benefits.
Project Benefits
2.59  The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 650,000
people (130,000 families) (23% of the target population8), by providing improved access
to water supply and other basic social and economic infrastructure and services, and by
contributing to an increase in production, incomes and employment. Project-financed
rural water supply and minor irrigation works will be particularly important in reducing
vulnerability to drought. Productive subprojects will provide a vehicle for financing
improvements in input use, technology and value-adding activities, thus raising
productivity and incomes. Female community members will benefit especially from
subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and social investments
which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and contribute to increased family cash
incomes. Annex B provides an assessment of the kind of benefits which have been
achieved to date for the most common types of subprojects under the reformulated
NRDP. These are illustrative of the kinds of benefits to the target population which are
expected, albeit on a larger scale, from the proposed project.
2.60  The proposed project will provide a safety net for some of the poorest segments of
Pernambuco's rural population who will likely continue to be affected by decreased public
investments for services during the period of fiscal adjustment and macroeconomic reform.
s  Assumes 10% of the beneficiaries are "repeater" beneficiaries and benefit from more than one
subproject.



- 33 -
Another important project benefit will be the strengthening of the capacity of poor
municipalities and their communities to define and address priority needs, and to plan
execute their own development projects. It is expected that the new project will have a
similar impact on the mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as
has the reformulated NRDP thus far (about 15% of resources invested by the program),
and this will improve the longer-term sustainability of investments. Project-related benefits
can potentially generate savings for state and municipal governments as well by reducing
certain budgetary obligations to rural areas, such as emergency water supply through
water trucks (carrospipa) or medical services. Finally, as aL result of benefits from the
project which lead to an overall improvement in community organization and well-being
and capacity to save, it is expected that a small number of beneficiary communities will
graduate from the project and gain access to alternative sources of financing.
Project Risks
2.61   Bank experience in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources of
risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular counterpart funding, which can
erode community confidence and interest in participating; (b) technical weaknesses and
inadequate supervision of large numbers of widely dispersecl subprojects; (c) mistargeting
of program resources; and (d) undue political interference in subproject selection, which
often has the corollary effect of depressing local initiative anid community involvement.
The funding risk will be mitigated by several distinguishing :features of the projects. The
Bank loan, which will finance 75% of total project expenditares, will be taken directly by
the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays previously encountered at the
Federal level and minimizing the overall counterpart funding obligation of the State. In
addition, counterpart funding responsibilities would be shared to a larger extent by the
municipalities, decreasing the relative proportion of the State's own participation, and,
unlike in the reformulated NRDP, beneficiary contributions under the proposed project
will be counted toward the global counterpart requirements The project will also help
address the State's fiscal deficit situation with technical assistance funds for administrative
reforms, thereby reducing the risk of counterpart funding difficulties. Finally, and perhaps
most importantly, the strong sense of ownership by the State, municipalities and
communities should help to protect project counterpart funding needs during the process
of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesi'gn and weak supervision at
the subproject level would be substantially reduced with the establishment of standard
technical designs and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component with speciiic resources allocated to
technical assistance for community associations. Increased delegation of supervision
responsibilities by PRORllRAL to Municipal Councils and contracted public and non-
governmental agencies, will increase supervision coverage and will minimize the risk of
mistargeting of program resources. In addition, the project design has introduced a
system of strong operational disincentives against mistargetiing and other departures from
project guidelines. For instance, a community or municipality would be obligated to
redress the problem, or be cut off entirely from the prograni6 in cases of misappropriation,



- 34 -
mistargeting or insufficient participation. Finally, an information campaign targeted to
potential beneficiaries and the expansion of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P programs, will
stimulate greater community participation and increase transparency in the selection of
subprojects and thereby work against negative political influence in the allocation of
project resources.



- 35 -
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED kND RECOMMENDATION
3.1   During negotiations, assurances were provided by ithe Borrower that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance
with the Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and format
agreed with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project period.
The Bank would receive monthly information on disbursements of project
funds and mid-year reports on subproject activities and performance of
project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year; a baseline
impact evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness; a mid-term review would be carried out at the end of the
second year of the project, and a full impact evaluation would be executed
at project completion (para. 2.18);
(c)   proposed POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to
the Bank in October of each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of
the final plan and budget as soon as they are approved by the Borrower's
Legislative Assembly; and that adequate counterpart funding would be
made available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.22);
(d)   (i) the indicated procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 2.49);
and (ii) the study of procurement by comnmunity contracting referred to in
para. 2.48 would be carried out during the first year of the project and any
agreed recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 2.49);
(e)   the State would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (,para. 2.51); and
(f)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be established,
maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) with respect
to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a
separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the procedures
involved in their preparation, support the r elated withdrawals; and (iii)
certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would



-36 -
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 2.54).
3.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   the preparation of a statewide information campaign, acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.14); and
(c)   the establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and
evaluation arrangements (para. 2.18).
3.3   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$39 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
November 20, 1996



- 37 -                          Annex A
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
A. PERNAMBUCO: A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
Geography and Climate
1.    The State of Pernambuco covers a territory of around 98,307 km2 and is bordered
on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the north by the states of Ceara and Paraiba, on the
west by Piaui and on the south by Minas Gerais and Alagoas. The state's long east/west
and narrow north/south configuration incorporates a range of agro-climatic regions and
micro-regions which have molded its socio-economic and productive patterns of
development. The state is divided into three major regions: (i) the Mata Atldntica
represents 10% of the territory, has an abundant rainfall of up to 2,000 mm per year,
fertile soils and is the main crop-growing region; (ii) the Agreste covering 20% of the
state, and with rainfall of 650 to 900 mm per year with a dry period of up to seven
months; and (iii) the Sertdo comprising 70% of the state, with annual rainfall below 500
mm and irregular dry periods of up to ten months; some 90% of the state is within the
semi-arid "drought polygon" characterized by severe, cyclical and often protracted
drought.
Demographic and Social Situation
2.    The population of the state is about 7.1 million (1991), of which 29% is rural and
71% is urban. Between 1980 and 1991 the population grew at about 1.4% per year --
compared to 1.8% for the northeast and 1.9% for Brazil overall--, a rate which has been
declining steadily in the past several decades principally due to reduced birthrates and
better medical assistance (mainly in urban areas), as well as reduced outmigration. The
Census of 1991 indicates a significant rate of return migration from outside the state,
combined with a continued exodus from rural areas to cities within the state. The average
annual rate of growth of the urban and rural populations in the period 1980-1991 was
respectively, 2.7% and -1.2%. Rapid urbanization, without a corresponding increase in
public investment in infrastructure - housing, sanitation, transport - has seen a visible
decline in standard of living both in the state capital Recife, and in urban centers in the
interior.



- 38 -                            Annex A
3.    The severity of rural poverty in Pernambuco is borne out by the following
indicators': (i) about 73% of rural heads of households earn one minimum salary
(currently about US$112 per month) or less, compared to 41% in urban areas; (ii) around
92% of all rural families have inadequate water supply, compared to 31% in urban areas;
(iii) some 72% of rural families lack any form of sanitation, compared to 12% in urban
areas; (iv) illiteracy affects about 59% of rural dwellers and some 34% of all persons over
15 years; (v) about 50% of the rural population is indigent2; (vi) infant mortality --an
important indicator of standard of living-- is 68.7% overall (1990 data), compared to the
average for Brazil of 45.3%; in certain rural zones such as the Agreste Meridional, Mata
Umida, Mata Seca and Vale do Ipojuca, rates are up to three times the national average,
ranging from 108.5/1,000 live births to 137.8/1,000; (vii) rural housing is grossly
inadequate in many zones and contributes to the elevated incidence of Chagas disease,
while water-borne diseases such as verminose (worm) schistosomiasis and leshmaniasis
are also prevalent; (viii) available data on health services in rural areas indicates that,
outside the metropolitan area of Recife, there is one physician to every 3,015 inhabitants
and one dentist to 5,503 inhabitants3. As in other northeastern states, medical services are
concentrated in the capitals both of the state and its municipalities and in some large
centers, with rural services grossly deficient. Vaccination programs have been successful
in reducing and/or eradicating certain important diseases of childhood.
The State Economy
4.    The economy of Pernambuco has historically been based on the production of
primary products for export. In the 1970s important changes occurred consonant with
surging national economic expansion. The state economy registered important rates of
growth as a positive response to incentives provided by Government to stimulate private
investment. The process of agricultural modernization and industrialization caused
development to follow a marked regional pattern, characterized by a growing
concentration of productive activities and populations. The state's industrial infrastructure
became interdependent with the rest of Brazil, and thus vulnerable to the successes and
failures of the national economy. Almost 60% of the state work force is now
concentrated in the Metropolitan area of Recife, where some 70% of industrial value-
added is generated.
I1BGE, Census 1991.
2 Indigence is defined as the level of income that corresponds, at the maximum, to the value of a "basic
food basket" that meets a family's minimum nutritional requirements, as defined by FAO/WHO.
Source: Mapa da Fome, IPEA, March 1993.
3 Municipal Profile of the Interior of Pernambuco, FIAM 1994.



-39-                             Annex A
The Agricultural Sector
5.    The Agricultural Census of 1985 shows that small farms under 10 hectares account
for some 76% of all fann establishments, but only 11% of farmland; moving up the scale
to farms of 100 hectares or less (classified as small farms in terms of productive capacity
under semi-arid conditions in the absence of inputs), the percentage rises to 96% of total
farm establishments and 42% of farmland. Conversely, some 4% of farms hold 58% of
farmland. It is likely, given the increase in larger-scale commercial farming in the past
decade, that this concentration has intensified. In terms of land tenure, the 1985 Census
shows that 62% of producers owned their land (and presumably had title), while 9.5%
were renters, another 5% were sharecroppers and the balance of 23.5% were squatters4.
As in other states of the Northeast, perverse incentives limit access of the poor to land,
even on a temporaiy basis. For example, legislation on renting and sharecropping, typical
forms of temporary access to land, sets ceilings on rents and crop shares, providing almost
permanent rights to tenants after a few years but making such arrangements unattractive
to owners and reducing access for those the law was intencled to protect. Similarly,
agricultural land is a tax haven for wealthy investors, thus increasing its price and reducing
access for the smallholders and landless workers unable to take advantage of tax laws5.
6.    Several decades of policies seeking to modernize the agricultural sector have
shown a differentiation in terms of population and area (IICA, 1995). Strategies of
technological modernization, subsidized credit and minimum price guarantees have tended
to favor commercial production for export, the expansion of agro-industry, medium and
large producers and the concentration of landholding, to the exclusion of small producers
and rural labor which have been further marginalized and unable to share the economic
benefits of growth associated with these policies.
7.    The agricultural economy is based primarily on sugar cane, cotton and livestock,
export crops including grapes, melons and tomatoes and basic food crops including beans
manioc, corn and sweet potato. Cotton and basic foodcrops are traditionally grown by
smallholders. The sector has undergone important changes in recent years with a distinct
zonal focus and with critical impact on poorer rural populations: in the Zona da Mata,
which generates almost one-half of state agricultural production, the stimulus provided by
the PROALCOOL program has witnessed a doubling of sugarcane production to 23
mnillion tons per year between 1970 and 1990, accompanied by an intense process of land
concentration, and the conversion of employment opportunities to temporary and
irregular. The recent crisis in the subsector has seen the closing down of processing
facilities and dismissal of large numbers of workers with little or no prospect of finding
alternative, formal and permanent employment.
4 Annual Statistics for Pernambuco, CONDEPE, 1992.
5 Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.



- 40 -                          Annex A
8.    Cotton, the principal cash crop of small producers, has declined to the point of
extinction due to the impact of low prices, drought, disease and credit access problems;
area under cultivation decreased from 378,000 hectares in 1970, to just 45,000 hectares in
1990, and production decreased in the same period by about 93%, from 66 tons to just 5
tons. In marked contrast, irrigated agriculture for export has shown great dynamism with
production of grapes, tomatoes and melons increasing by huge margins each year since
1970. In the Agreste, livestock husbandry has benefited from official assistance programs
designed to modernize breeding, health and sanitary practices; however, in other regions
which have not had this service, recurrent drought has impacted heavily on herd size and
consequently on the standard of living in municipalities dependent on this activity.
Further, much land formerly under cotton has converted to livestock with important,
negative implications for labor absorption and income potential. A significant by-product
of these trends has been the major increase in participation of rural women in the labor
force.
9.    The rural poor, mostly smallholders, sharecroppers and wageworkers, as in the
rest of the northeast, rely on diverse sources of income -- traditional subsistence
agriculture and small-scale animal husbandry, cash crops (mainly cotton), casual work on-
and off-farm, and remittances from family members living in cities. Basic foodcrops and a
large part of the cotton crop are grown by small producers. Yields fluctuate greatly due
to the impact of erratic climate, insecure land tenure, the poor natural resource base and
inability to purchase inputs or to store water, intensive cropping on unsuitable lands and
generally low levels of technology. The implications of this decline are clear given that
cotton has been the principal source of cash income for the majority of the poorer rural
population. Foodcrops are grown mainly for household subsistence; their production has
also fallen steadily since 1970. The average rural income per capita in Pernambuco in
1990 was estimated at around US$240 per year, corresponding to 57% of the nation-wide
poverty line of around US$417 (Estrategia de Desenvolvimento e Combate a Pobreza,
INAE, July 1994).
State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty
10.   The State's Multi-Year Plan for 1996/99 focuses on sustainable development and
stresses: (i) reducing inequality and combating misery; (ii) economic growth which
recognizes the difference in ecosystems, and addresses the structural aspects of
development; and (iii) institutional improvements permitting greater efficiency and
transparency in the provision of services. Poverty is a central preoccupation to be
addressed through increased employment and income, social organization, education,
natural resource conservation, and greater participation of poor, marginalized rural
communities. The Government is mindful of the lessons from the NRDP projects which
stress decentralization and local development. The Government intends to stimulate local
economies by strengthening and modernizing micro-enterprises, including small
commercial and entrepreneurial family farms, agro-processing and manufacturing, and
employment creation. It is supporting the development of cooperatives, and the work of
NGOs in organizing community productive ventures and would facilitate access to credit



- 41-                           Annex A
and technology for small productive enterprises. The Government is also addressing the
situation of the semi-arid regions through rationalization of water resource use, especially
in the sertdo through construction of water storage infrastructure, the organization of
water users and the institutional development of involved agencies.
Experiences with Bank-Financed Development Programs
11.   The history of the State's involvement with Bank-financed rural development
programs is consistent with that of the other northeastern states: under
POLONORDESTE the Pernambuco Rural Development T'roject (Loan 1728-BR) met its
physical targets but implementation and disbursement delays occurred due to Federal
counterpart funding and rural credit problems, drought, over-centralized project
administration and limited beneficiary participation in project planning and execution.
Poor coordination, duplication of effort and competition for scarce funds were also key
factors. But the project did strengthen state institutional capabilities, and established
services and infrastructure which contributed to agricultural modernization and laid the
groundwork for further rural development programs.
12.   The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), initiated between 1985 and
1987, was largely unable to improve on the performance of POLONORDESTE but did
successfully launch the community-based rural development methodology through the
small APCR component; Pernambuco's experience also conformed to this pattern. The
NRDP, like POLONORDESTE, also did make other important contributions: it paved the
way for adrninistrative decentralization, a more strategic approach to rural development,
the involvement of NGOs and a greater role for communities in project planning and
execution. The NRDP projects in each of the northeast states were reformulated in 1993
by essentially converting the successful APCR component into the primary model.
State Performance under NRDP
13.   The NRDP-Pernambuco project closed on June 30, 1996, after a six-month
extension of the original closing date. Under the reformulated NRDP, Pernambuco's
performance was initially poor but, thanks to the efforts and commitment of the current
State Government, greatly improved in the past year and a half. After reformulation,
US$19.5 million were disbursed and US$3.2 million committed which, together with the
cancellation of US$20 million in December 1994, left a balance of only US$0.8 million.
The annual rate of disbursements after reformulation topped US$9 million, pushed
forward by a US$1 million per month disbursement rate in 1996. By closing, rural
community associations had submitted some 4,159 subproject applications, of which 1,237
were financed and/or completed. 55% of the approved inviestments were infrastructure
subprojects, 37% were productive and 8% were social subprojects.



- 42 -                        Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
B. THE REFORMULATED NORTHEAST RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP): PERFORMANCE AND
EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    With more than half of all Brazilians living in poverty and almost two-thirds of the
country's rural poor, the Northeast --covering nine States and a part of a tenth'-- has long
constituted the single largest rural poverty pocket in Latin America. Rural development programs
for this region have been financed by the Federal and State Governments since the early 1970s,
but all achieved limited success in alleviating poverty -- including the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP), which was established in 1985 to improve living standards of
small farm families and reduce poverty in the Northeast. Through 1993, with the exception of
one component supporting small community projects, implementation of the NRDP lagged behind
sclhedule, and performance in meeting basic project objectives was weak. However, its innovative
community-based component, Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais (APCR.), relying on
community planning and organization and acknowledging the expressed needs of the
communities, produced very encouraging --and replicable-- results: the poverty alleviation impact
of the APCR was positive, the cost per family relatively low, and its disbursement and
commitment rates far exceeded those of other components. In 1993, drawing both on the
successful experience of the APCR component and on lessons learned with similar schemes
elsewhere in Latin America, the NRDP was reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a
community-based development program. This reformulation, concomitant with the administrative
and fiscal decentralization embodied in the new Brazilian constitution of 1988, decentralized
decision-making, program counterpart funding and implementation, from the Federal Government
to the States and local levels. It allowed rural communities to identify their own needs and
execute their own subprojects, while committing themselves to contributing to the cost of the
investments and taking charge of their operation and maintenance (O&M). Reformulation was
effective in late 1993 and became frilly operational in all states in January 1994.
2.    Under the reformulated NRDP, matching grants are provided to rural community
associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by these groups as priority investments to
improve community well-being. Choosing among eligible subprojects, the beneficiaries solicit
investments which respond to their most critical needs. There are two different delivery
The Northeast Region includes the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pemambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



- 43 -                        Annex B
mechanisms for screening, approving and implementing community subprojects: (i) State
Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural communities submit their subproject investment
proposals directly to the State Project Technical Unit (TU). The TU screens, approves and
releases funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and (ii) Pilot Municipal
Community Schemes (FUIMAC), in which subprojects identified and prepared by rural
communities are presented to project Municipal Councils for review. The Councils, composed of
community members, local government representatives and representatives of civil society,
promote local-level consensus-building on priority needs through open "town meetings", and
screen and submit subprojects to the State for subsequent approval and financing. This pilot was
designed originally to reach only 10 municipalities per state but, due to its early success, it has
surpassed this initial target.
3.    This Annex presents a performance and impact analysis of almost three years of
implementation of the reformulated NRDP, as a result of an evaluation undertaken by FAO
(United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization) and the Bank between October 1995 and
February 1996, and updated at appraisal of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation project.
Certain aspects of the analysis, based on the most recent information from NRDP's Simplified
Project Monitoring System (SSMP) as well as findings of earlie:r studies, cover the overall
program in the ten participating states. Other aspects, in particular the socio-economic impact of
subproject investments, have been analyzed specifically for the state of Pernambuco. Featured
below are: (i) the information base used for the evaluation; (ii) the status of implementation to date in
all ten states, with respect to NRDP subprojects and disbursements; (iii) an impact analysis of the
reformulated NRDP at the state and municipal levels for the ten states, and at the local level for the
state of Pemrnambuco; (iv) the advantages of FUMAC over PAC, the two delivery mechanisms
available in the NRDP; (v) a technical assessment of subprojects; (-%i) an assessment of institutional
performance in the program, and (vii) conclusions and recommendations for design improvements for
follow-up projects.
4.    Results of different evaluations of NRDP since its reforrmulation show that after several
years of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of success
has been achieved in effectively reaching the rural poor through targeted interventions. However,
some aspects of program implementation and its innovative features are still in need of
improvement, which could be addressed by modifications to project design. The design of follow-
up projects should explicitly take into account the lessons derived from this and other evaluations
of the NRDP, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin
America and other regions with similar community-based development programs.
INFORMATION BASE
5.    The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:
(a)   The Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMP) of the Bank's Recife Office,
which is the major data base for the reformulated. NRDP from which the
performance of the project in each state is monitored. The SSMP is updated



- 44 -                        Annex B
monthly and stores key information, including the number and types of community
subprojects at the different stages of implementation, number of beneficiary
communities, subproject costs, procurement and disbursement information;
(b)   Impact evaluation findings from surveys by the Bank/FAO in October
1995/February 1996, of the most common types of subprojects found in
Pernambuco. The surveys focus on the following aspects: (a) the process of
subproject identification, implementation, technical assistance and supervision; (b)
the nature of the subproject (investments funded); (c) socio-economic
results/impact of the subproject; and (d) special qualitative and quantitative
information;
(c)   A desk review of: (i) special evaluation studies of FUMAC, conducted by the
Technical Units (TUs) of each of the ten states, based on their implementation
experience and specific case studies; (ii) the University of Michigan's "Baseline and
Popular Participation Study", initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, and followed
by a community impact evaluation analysis based on field surveys covering 38
communities in 23 municipalities of 9 states (Minas Gerais was not included) in
July-October 1994; (iii) a series of studies under the "ARIDAS Project on
Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of the Northeast"; (iv) an
evaluation of NRDP, commissioned in 1994 by the Federal Secretariat of
International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; and (v) reports from several
Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated NRDP; and
(d)   The World Bank/FAO evaluation, "The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and
Evaluation", carried out in February 1995 and presented in the SARs of the new
Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects for Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe (nos. 14390-BR,
14394-BR, and 14395-BR, respectively). In addition to the above mentioned
sources of information, this overall socio-economic impact evaluation based its
analysis on a group of 52 sample subprojects of 8 different types implemented in
the 10 states, obtained by using a random sampling methodology.2
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
6.    Statistical information from the SSMP on the performance of all ten states participating in
t;he reformulated NRDP is presented in Tables 1 to 6. As of June 30, 1996, about 41,000 PAC
amd FUMAC subproject proposals had been submitted by communities in all ten states. Of the
2  This methodology was built on statistical random sampling procedures from a universe of all subprojects
under implementation and/or completed at the beginning of 1995, as obtained from the SSMP. The
distribution of the sample for a given type of subproject among the states was based on the distribution
frequency of such subprojects.



- 45 -                       Annex B
total, 59% or 23,910 subprojects had been approved, of which 1.3,758 were completed and/or
under implementation (Table 1). Negotiations with intended beneficiary associations on the terms
of agreement and other issues were in process on the other 10,202 approved subprojects.
7.    To date, the reformulated NRDP has reached nearly 40% of rural poor families in the ten
Northeast states, including "repeater" families which have benefited from more than one
subproject. Based on the experience of Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Norte, it is estimated that
only 10% of community associations are repeater associations and, because some associations
may represent more than one community, that the number of repeater communities is even
smaller. Those with more than one subproject typically are better organized than others or, as in
the case of Rio Grande do Norte, are supported by NGOs or other technical assistance agencies.
Accumulating benefits from different subprojects has a significant impact on local development
and would be an important element of a graduation strategy (paira. 20). Nevertheless, it is equally
important that TUs strengthen their outreach program to reach previously unattended
communities, particularly those lacking organizational strength.
8.    Overall, some 120 different types of subprojects have been proposed by rural
communities, a large majority of which relate to basic rural infrastructure, followed by productive
subprojects (mostly small-scale agro-processing and communal itractors) and, to a lesser extent,
investments of a social nature (e.g., day care centers or house improvement). Table 2 shows
community demand for the most common types of subprojects for the NRDP as a whole, and
separately for the states of Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Norte and Piaui. While it is clear that
water supply and rural electrification are in great demand everyvhere, communities in certain
states like Rio Grande do Norte, encouraged by the state TUs, also tend to favor productive
investments. The nature of subprojects eventually financed generally corresponds to community
demand: out of the total number of subprojects that were completed or under implementation as
of end-June 1996, 58% were for rural infrastructure, 36% were productive subprojects and only
6% were social subprojects (Table 1).
9.    Local screening of subprojects accelerates processing; thus, in the FUMAC mode, there
are more subprojects per municipality than in PAC, more beneficiaries per subproject and lower
costs per beneficiary. In the ten states, subprojects approved under FUMAC represent about 20%
of the total, even though the pilot nature of this component limit:ed it to some 11% of recipient
municipalities. On average, 16.6 subprojects have been implemented per municipality under
FUMAC, compared with 10.1 under PAC (Table 3). Although the costs of PAC and FUMAC
subprojects are similar (Table 4), FUMAC subprojects involve at least 10% more beneficiaries,
resulting in a lower implementation cost per beneficiary. Among the ten states, Paraiba has the
highest proportion of FUMAC subprojects (62% of all subprojects approved in the state) while
Alagoas finds itself at the other extreme, having only 6% of all subprojects implemented under
FUMAC. Indeed, depending on the local political situation, conditions favorable to the FUMAC
process, as promoted under NRDP, differ from state to state.
10.   The average cost per subproject varies among project types, ranging from US$14,200 for
rice processing to US$32,500 for tractors and implements (Table 5). The overall average cost is
about US$24,000. As the nature and technical specification for a particular type of subproject



- 46 -                       Annex B
often differ substantially between states, there can also be large variations in the corresponding
costs.
Disbursements
11.   Analysis of the progress of loan disbursements (including funds already committed) as of
July 19, 1996 (Table 6) shows that the program's disbursement rate has been significantly higher
than its historical equivalent before reformulation. In about two years and a half, a total of
'US$267.3 million of loan funds has been disbursed or committed under the program, or US$8.6
imillion per month, as compared to only US$3.5 million per month during the whole
implementation period of the original NRDP (1986-late 1993). It should also be noted that
municipalities in some states like Paraiba and Piaui have frequently contributed counterpart funds
in light of shortages at the state level. Overall, it is estimated that 93% of project funds disbursed
have reached the beneficiary communities directly, as compared with only 44% under the original
]NRDP. There is now a total outstanding loan balance of US$78.7 million, four of the loans
having closed on December 31, 1995 (Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia and Ceara), two
mnore on June 30, 1996 (Pernambuco and Piaui), and one on September 30, 1996 (Alagoas). The
remainder are scheduled to close on December 31, 1996.
EVALUATION
S3tate and Municipal Levels
12.   Based on conservative estimates derived from SSMP data and information provided by the
State TUs, there is ample evidence to show that the reformulated NRDP has been cost-effective in
attending to the rural poor in the Northeast and has a large potential to produce tax revenue for
the State and Municipal Governments. In particular:
I13.   NRDP investments are potentially cost-saving for State governments, in terms both of
construction costs of subprojects and water supply. First, with respect to construction costs, it
has been shown that infrastructure projects implemented by government agencies are, on average,
about 30% more expensive than projects implemented by communities. Merely assuming that half
of all subprojects implemented are effectively 30% cheaper than what they would have cost had
they been implemented by government agencies, the savings to the ten State governments in this
regard would be equivalent to US$51 million for the whole program as implemented to date (the
total investment cost of the approximately 13,700 subprojects financed as of June 30, 1996
amounts to about US$340 million).
14.   Second, NRDP investments in water supply create savings with respect to State and
rnunicipal budgetary resources spent on provision of water (by carropipa or water bowser) to
rural communities, which is necessary not only in periods of drought but also in years of "normal"
precipitation in the serni-arid region of the Northeast. NRDP rural water supply projects
mainimize that recurring expenditure and liberate these savings for other purposes. Thus, for



- 47 -                        Annex B
municipalities which have benefited from the 1,900 NRDP-financed water supply projects to date,
the actual annual savings to their respective budgets from not having to provide the
corresponding carrospipa are estimated to range --for all municipalities-- from about US$5
million in a year of normal precipitation to more than US$11 million in a drought year. In periods
of severe drought, savings can also accrue to the Federal Governrment, which normally provides
substantial emergency funds to the states in these periods.
15.   NRDP investments also generate tax revenue3 for the State and Municipal governments on
marketed outputs of productive subprojects. For example, the 4.7 manioc mill subprojects
financed in Pernambuco as of mid-1996 are estimated to generalte about US$63,000 of tax
revenues per year.
Local Level
16.   At the community level, NRDP subprojects have begun tlo generate significant
improvements in the local economy and in the quality of life of the beneficiaries. Beyond its
impact at the state and municipal levels, the reformulated NRDP, as found in the overall socio-
economic impact evaluation carried out in February 1995 (para. 5(d)), has resulted in a much
improved quality of life for the beneficiary communities. In most cases, it has also started to
generate increases in income and employment opportunities, which would expand further as
productive subprojects --most of which have been operating for less than two years-- come to full
maturity. And as subproject benefits are largely concentrated in the beneficiary communities, they
are leading to savings accumulation (both at household and community levels) and to
improvements in the local economy. These, in turn, contribute to preventing communities from
migrating elsewhere and, in some cases, to encouraging them to start small businesses and/or
other activities locally. Most of these findings are confirmed by the more recent (late 1995-early
1996) state-specific evaluation which was undertaken in Pernambuco and two other states. In
Pemambuco, more than 30 subprojects completed to date were surveyed in detail and six major
types of investments financed under the reformulated NRDP analyzed, accounting for more than
70% of all subprojects approved in this state. An abbreviated description of these main subproject
types is presented below. For each, aggregate SSMP data on the number of subprojects
completed and/or under implementation, total beneficiaries and average cost per beneficiary are
shown in Table 7, while Tables 8 and 9 present the results of the financial/economic analyses
undertaken for a number of representative productive subprojects in Pernambuco.
3  ICMS is the principal tax applicable to all marketed products, of which 75% goes to the State and 25% is
divided among the municipalities. Depending on the state, the rate of ][CMS varies according to the product.
In some states, as in Rio Grande do Norte and Pemambuco, some agricultural products (particularly staples
like manioc) are totally exempt of ICMS.



- 48 -                            Annex B
The reformulated NRDP in Pernambuco
Implementation period:                30 months (Jan. 1994-June 1996)
Total no. of subprojects financed:    1,237
of which          1,073 PAC and 164 FUMAC
and               55%  infrastructure subprojects (e.g., rural
water supply, rural electrification), 37%
productive  subprojects  (e.g.,  communal
tractors, manioc mills, small-scale irrigation)
and  8%  social subprojects (e.g., house
improvement, day care centers)
Total no. of beneficiary families:    136,855
representing 24 % of poor rural families in
the state
Total no. of municipalities
with approved subprojects:            161
or 96% of eligible municipalities (167)
Total investments:                    US$30.0 million
or US$220 per beneficiary family
Total beneficiary contribution:       US$3.0 million
I-firastructure Subprojects
(a)    Rural water supply. Drought, a frequent occurrence in the Northeast, can have a
devastating impact on the lives of communities in this region. In periods when this
phenomenon occurs, there is great demand for this type of subproject. Due to
variation in physical conditions among the different areas, works implemented
differ according to the source of water (surface or groundwater) and the type of
infrastructure required (new or rehabilitated well, reservoir, fountain, etc.). Rural
water supply projects provide a precious resource which previously was obtained
only through long hours of walking or had to be supplied by the municipality by
carropipa (para. 14). They lead to savings in time, effort and cost, and often to
improved health through better sanitation with cleaner water than obtained
previously. However, these gains are difficult to quantify. In Pernambuco, it is
estimated that nearly 23,000 families are benefiting from the 121 subprojects
already --or soon to be-- completed in this category.
(b)    Rural electrification. Providing electricity to streets and households as well as
community shops and small-scale processing units, rural electrification subprojects
contribute to improving the quality of life of the local inhabitants by giving them



-49 -                         Annex B
access to radio, television and the use of domestic appliances, and in some cases
generating additional employment and incomes from the increased operation of
local businesses and industries. In Pernambuco, a total of about 30,100 families
are benefiting from the 482 rural electrification subprojects under implementation
and/or completed, with more than 30,000 houses connected to electricity. Rural
households are charged an electricity fee, which varies slightly between the states.
Productive Subprojects
(a)    Tractors for communal use. Community-owned tractors with implements are a
very popular type of productive subproject. Tractor use has facilitated increases in
the areas cultivated with different crops (especially manioc, maize, beans,
horticultural crops and dry season rice) as well as in their yields and productivity,
often resulting in significant gains in the producfion and incomes of the
beneficiaries. As elsewhere in the world, tractors are labor-intensive when used
primarily in pre-harvest production activities. They are also used for farm
transport, which can reduce costs substantially for the producers. The 151 tractor
subprojects completed and/or being executed in Pernambuco are benefiting about
9,400 families with increased incomes of about UJS$320 per beneficiary family per
year. They are creating some 3,400 jobs (including the equivalent of additional
person-days for crop cultivation) and resulting irn a total incremental crop area of
32,900 ha (on average 3.5 ha per family)4.
(b)   Manioc flour mills. Casas defarinha are a familiar structure in all rural areas of
the Northeast, where manioc is a major food crop consumed primarily in the form
of flour. The main benefits from this type of subproject are reduced processing
costs (plus, in some cases, savings in transport to other mills located outside the
project area), leading to increased production both for sale and family
consumption. Where there is no other mill in the area, community-owned casas de
farinha replace home-made processing which is done in an artisanal, time-
consuming fashion and often produces poor quality flour. Because faster
processing allows the producers more time for p].anting and harvesting, the
installation of manioc mills is associated with an increase in the crop areas.
Additional jobs are also generated both for men and women working in the mills,
whose mechanization generally results in better working conditions. The 47 casas
defarinhia which have been completed and/or are under implementation in
Pernambuco are expected to benefit about 2,400 families, produce average
incremental incomes of US$270 per family per year and generate the equivalent of
some 480 jobs, including additional farm employment, with a total incremental
crop area of 1,800 ha (about 0.8 ha per family).
(c)    Small-scale irrigation. In Pernambuco and other states such as Minas Gerais,
irrigation infrastructure and equipment (kits) for small, communal schemes are
4  Usually cultivation is done on rented land or through sharecropping with the land owner.



- 50 -                             Annex B
increasingly in demand by rural communities. The size of these schemes can vary
from 10 to 60 ha (benefiting between 30 and 100 or more farming families each),
where surface or groundwater is used for gravity or, more frequently, sprinkler
irrigation to produce high-value fruit and horticultural crops (e.g., pitanga,
inhame, etc.). It is estimated that the 30 small-scale irrigation subprojects
completed and/or currently executed in Pernambuco are benefiting about 2,500
farming families, whose incomes would rise significantly by US$1,300 per family
per year.
Social Subprojects
(a)    Health-related House improvement. The dwellings of many rural families in the
Northeast, and in particular Pernambuco, are in poor condition and often
associated with lack of hygiene which can lead to very serious health problems
(e.g., the often fatal Chagas disease, which is spread by an insect favoring wall
materials of traditional rural houses in the interior). It is estimated that the 85
house improvement subprojects under implementation and/or completed in
Pernambuco are benefiting some 8,800 families in total, and indications are that
consequent improvements in the living conditions of these families have an
important beneficial impact on their health.
17.    Generally, the analysis of sample cases surveyed indicates that the NRDP has made a
positive impact on the quality of life and, in the case of productive subprojects, on employment
alnd incomes of beneficiary communities or associations (Table 8). Results of financial and
economic analyses of productive subprojects show that internal economic rates of return (IERRs)
are high, investment per job created is low and benefit-cost ratios are satisfactory. For this
category of subprojects, all IERRs5 exceed 50% in financial as well as in economic terms. Both
analyses were made assuming constant benefits over an eight-year subproject life cycle. In most
cases, the estimated economic IERRs are higher than the financial ones: while the economic cost
of labor --which is the most important input in smallholder agriculture-- is very low due to severe
unemployment, economic prices of outputs, produced in small quantities and all traded internally
except for rice, are virtually the same as their financial prices. In addition, an analysis was carried
otut to determine the sensitivity of the IERRs to the distortionary effects of publicly-funded grants,
stemming from the costs associated with raising these funds (i.e., taxation). While using the
shadow price of public funds necessarily reduced the respective IERRs, these remained,
5   Methodology: Based on the results of interviews conducted in October 1995 with subproject beneficiaries and
other local stakeholders in the state, a methodology similar to the one used in the earlier, overall evaluation (para.
5(d)) was applied. Additionally, IERRs were estimated using economic as well as financial values to assess the
impact of the subprojects not only on the beneficiaries and their associations, but also on the community at large as
well as on the local economy. The economic analysis used specific conversion factors to translate financial prices of
both inputs and outputs into economic terms. For each project type, the total number of subprojects implemented or
completed, the total number of beneficiary families and the cost per beneficiary were derived from state SSMP data,
while quantitative benefits in terms of net incremental income, incremental crop area and jobs created, were
assessed, and IERRs and cost-effectiveness indicators estimated, from averages obtained from the subprojects
surveyed in that category.



-51 -                         Annex B
nonetheless, significantly positive and exceeded 17% in all cases. Cost-effectiveness results --in
terms of both employment creation and benefit-cost ratios-- were also very satisfactory. Cost-
effectiveness was determined by estimating, where appropriate, the total investment cost per
additional job created by the various types of productive subprojects, as well as benefit-cost
ratios. For all subprojects analyzed in Pernambuco, the initial investment per additional job
created is notably low (at least 10 times lower than in the industiy and service sectors) and
benefit-cost ratios are satisfactory (between 1.3 and 2.3). However, given the sampling nature of
the exercise and the variations that exist among subprojects in terms both of costs and
performance, results thus quantified should be taken as illustrative only.
18.   Analysis of selected productive subprojects shows that cost recovery through user fees by
the average beneficiary association is sufficient for operation and. maintenance, including
replacement of worn-out equipment. The financial sustainability analysis of selected productive
subprojects (manioc mills and farm tractors) shows that while beneficiary associations receive a
one-time investment grant from the program, this investment is financially sustainable because
cost recovery through user fees by the average beneficiary association is adequate to cover both
O&M and replacement of the original investment by the end of ilts useful economic life (Table 9).
In the case of tractors, the net income of the associations owning the tractors and implements,
after deduction of all operation and maintenance expenditures, is sufficient to cover the initial
investment after a period of 5 years, as compared with an average useful economic life of 10
years. Likewise, the comparison between receipts and operating and maintenance costs
associated with manioc mills indicates that this type of investment is financially sustainable,
leaving the associations with enough funds to amortize the mill and its equipment in 7 years,
which is significantly less than its average useful economic life of 12 years.
19.   By improving the quality of life and economic and social conditions of beneficiaries, the
NRDP has initiated a process of accumulation at both the local and household levels, thereby
ensuring a degree of sustainability that previous development efftrts in the Northeast were not
able to provide. As found in the University of Michigan study (para. 5(c)), socio-economic
conditions in the communities that have been reached by the program have improved notably. In
particular, NRDP-funded investments accelerated the post-1993 drought recovery of these
communities, and provided them with incentives to use land more intensively. While rural
infrastructure and social subprojects have ameliorated, sometimes dramatically, living standards of
beneficiary families, they also have, along with productive subprojects, generated employment not
only for heads of rural households but also other members including women, and led to improved
welfare and increased, more stable, family incomes. As a result, ithe program has contributed to
elevating the economic conditions of beneficiaries above those generally found with rural
communities in the Northeast, providing them with initial start-up funds and allowing them to
start generating savings both for financing their own investments and eventually accessing formal
credit. In addition, a notable feature of the NRDP has been to encourage resource mobilization at
the municipal level, as demonstrated by the increasing financial participation of municipalities in
the program (para. 11).
20.   Given the relatively high EERRs of some productive subprojects, it could be argued that
these cases would be better attended through credit rather than through a grant mechanism.
However, the rural poor in the Northeast --the target group of the reformulated NRDP--



-52 -                        Annex B
generally have limited access to credit for such micro-ventures. As an alternative to credit, the
grant mechanism provides the NRDP beneficiary communities with the means to accumulate
benefits at the local level and generate savings, which they could use to leverage with the financial
sector to obtain credit for investments and eventually graduate out of the program. However,
deternmination of the critical variables which would be applied to decide when a given community
or municipality should graduate from the program requires careful study.
ADVANTAGES OF FUMAC OVER PAC
21.   While the pilot nature of FUMAC under the reformulated NRDP necessarily limited its
area of intervention, experience to date demonstrates that this component has been successful and
should be expanded. First, as seen in para. 9, the data collected on subprojects implemented
under the program show that FUMAC has outperformed PAC in terms of number of beneficiaries
per subproject and costs per beneficiary.
22.   Second, the FUMAC approach has clearly achieved greater community participation and
transparency than PAC and has helped strengthen the capacity of communities to select and
implement subprojects. While socio-economic benefits produced by the two components are
similar in many respects, there is enough evidence, as found in Kottak and Costa's follow-up study
(1994), to assert that greater community participation and transparency in decision-making have
been achieved through FUMAC, since subproject proposals are deliberated not only by the
community but also by the project Municipal Council at open public meetings. Not only does
awareness of the program and its requirements appear to be stronger with FUMAC communities
tihan with PAC communities, but participation in decision-making has also been found to be higher
with the first group. Generally, as a result of better selection and prioritization by the
beneficiaries through the Municipal Council forum, FUMAC subprojects are able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects. This more rigorous process in. FUMAC also
contributes to an increased capacity by communities in FUMAC municipalities to identify, plan
and implement subprojects. In addition, the stronger and more capable Municipal Councils served
as catalysts to increase community organization.
23.   Third, local governments and communities are committed to the FUMAC approach. The
suLccess of FUMAC can be gauged by the large degree of acceptance and commitment of both
local governments and communities, which have, in most states, adhered to its principles of
consensus building and local development planning, albeit in embryonic form. This has
translated, as in Maranhao and Paraiba, into the establishment in PAC municipalities of"FUMAC-
like" Councils, where local priorities are discussed and collective decisions are made on
subproject submissions to be forwarded to the TUs.
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT OF SUBPROJECTS
24.   NRDP investments are generally of good quality. In most PAC and FUMAC subprojects
executed in the ten states, a technical evaluation carried out by the Bank in late 1994 found that
works were generally of good quality, particularly when implemented by private contractors (75%
of subprojects). With the remaining 25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with



- 53 -                        Annex B
unskilled labor often provided by beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities
themselves), the quality varied but remained generally fair to good. Only for a very small
proportion (less than 5% of all subprojects) was construction quality rated as poor.
25.   However, some shortcomings have been detected in a number of subprojects, namely the
overdesign of works due to lack of technical criteria and/or competent technical assistance, and leading
to discrepancies in investment size and costs per beneficiary for the same type of projects. In addition,
technical assistance provided by TUs or other entities to communities in planning and executing
projects, has sometimes been found to be inadequate. Despite the availability of funds under NRDP to
hire professional assistance with planning or implementation, such assistance is hard to secure in rural
areas -- in part because under the reformulated NRDP the cost of technical assistance for preparation
and implementation of a subproject is included in its cost estimate and funds cannot be released to
remunerate contracted professionals if the association's proposal has been rejected.
26.   Because of their relatively small size, PAC/FUMAC subprojects generally do not produce
significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their very nature,
produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g., from the processing of manioc) or lead to
increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact (fertilizers and
pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in cassava and rice mills, etc.).
Additional consideration would have to be given to these aspects under follow-up projects.
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
27.   Institutional analysis of the reformulated NRDP as it is implemented in the ten states, and
of the role played by the various actors in the program, yields a generally favorable picture.
28.   Once mobilized and legally established, community associations generally function well,
apart from some cases of apathy or of takeover by individuals trying to monopolize benefits.
Collective responsibilities such as appointment of office-holders, payment of dues or user fees and
accounting are generally met by the members, particularly of those associations which are well
organized, as in Minas Gerais where many date back to the start of the original NRDP. Some
community associations are newly-formed, having been mobilized with the objective of requesting
financing for a needed subproject, and do not have significant organizational experience at the
outset. While the potential for political influence exists in the organization of these community
associations, the outcome is generally favorable as these mayors facilitate the spread of
information about the project and provide the conditions necessar-y for communities to capitalize
on project benefits which meet their basic needs. In all ten states, community associations share a
common need for technical assistance. Not only is this essential for the organizational
development of newly-formed associations, but it is needed to assist all associations during the
whole subproject cycle, from preparation to implementation and ID&M of subprojects. While
training and technical assistance is a critical input for all subprojects, the need for assistance is
more acute for productive subprojects where inadequate O&M is often the result of lack of
technical know-how on the part of the communities in the absence of follow-up by the TUs.
Better access to organizational and management training will also contribute to the sustainability
of both community organizations and subprojects.



- 54 -                       Annex B
29.   The FUMAC Municipal Councils are the focal point of the project's decentralization
strategy and must be protected from political interference which would undermine the demand-
dlriven nature of the project. In FUMAC, the Municipal Councils review and discuss in a public
forum the communities' subproject requests and forward these to the TU in priority order for
financing. The Councils are generally chaired by the mayors and comprise representatives from
both public and non-governmental agencies and community associations. Development and
performance of the project FUMAC Municipal Councils are affected by the attitude of the local
political power base, especially that of the mayor. Usually, mayors are supportive and the
dlisparate interests represented in the FUMAC councils have found a modus vivendi. For instance,
nmayors of the municipality of Afogados de Ingazeira in Pernambuco or that of Tibau do Sul in
Rio Grande do Norte are working hand in hand with their respective FUMAC Municipal Councils
and the community subprojects that have been financed are performing very satisfactorily. In fact,
mnayors in some states have adopted the FUMAC approach and applied it to decision-making on
allocation of non-project resources as well. On the other hand, in Pemambuco in the municipality
of Brejo da Madre de Deus, a rural water supply subproject financed for the community of Sitio
Calderao in late 1993, was never discussed within the FUMAC Municipal Council, and the mayor
hlas attempted to undermine the Council's autonomy. Similarly, in Piaui in the municipality of Jose
dLe Freitas, the FUMAC Council was not involved in the selection and implementation of two
subprojects --electrification and small-scale irrigation-- approved for the community of Ema,
neither of which has become fully operational. Therefore, while political influence can work to
the advantage of the Councils by facilitating the subproject approval process and forging mutual
bienefits for project Councils and municipal governments, this same influence can undermine the
dlemand-driven nature of the project if left unchecked.
30.   The participation and support of rural municipal governments is important for
sustainability and should be encouraged, but with sufficient safeguards against negative political
influence. While the project Municipal Councils act independently of municipal governments, the
participation and support of the latter is nonetheless important. Rural municipal governments
have limited financial resources with which to invest in rural communities and, hence, the
reformulated NRDP has served as an important source of funds at the local level to bridge the gap
in public resources for investment in poor rural communities. Experience under the reformulated
NRDP has demonstrated that the mayors and municipal leaders view the project as a welcome
source of additional resources for investment to meet basic community needs to which their
rmunicipal budgets cannot realistically attend. For the most part, mayors, municipal legislature
rmembers (vereadores) and municipal administrations have supported and participated in NRDP;
in some states, such as Piaui and Paraiba, the municipal governments have even provided the
counterpart funds which the financially strapped state governments were unable to supply. At
times, however, mayors or legislators have attempted to subvert the program to their own ends.
For example, in the municipality of Agua Branca in Piaui, a local politician has promoted
subprojects for different communities to improve his own local standing and attract supporters;
and in the municipality of Carnaiba in Pernambuco, a tractor subproject approved for a
community ended up being used by the prefeitura and not the community. Cases such as the
latter, where political manipulation directly penalized the communities through unrealized
subproject benefits, are rare. The former case, where communities benefit from subprojects
despite political influence, is much more common. Moreover, where local political leadership



- 55 -                        Annex B
openly opposed the FUMAC approach, the PAC component allowed the community associations
to bypass the municipal authorities and submit proposals directly to the state TUs.
31.   Technical Units need assistance to streamline operational procedures and strengthen
project supervision. The TU is the focal point for project administration and is the project's
principal liaison for the Municipal Councils and for those community associations located in PAC
municipalities. The TUs are located within the Planning Secretariat of each state, with the
exception of Rio Grande do Norte where the TU falls under the responsibility of the State
Secretariat of Labor and Social Action (SETAS). Most have established several field offices,
each with one or more technicians. In some cases TUs also harndle other development programs
in the state, but usually these are programs of minor importance. That the TUs have generally
been successful in promoting NRDP is obvious from the overw]helming comnmunity response.
However, despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), TUs find it hard to process the large
number of subproject proposals and to provide technical assistance for the preparation and
implementation of subprojects. Because the process of appraising subprojects and, in particular,
that of negotiating terms of agreement with beneficiary associations is time-consuming, not all of
the approximately 10,000 subprojects approved yearly are actually funded the same year. In
addition, supervision of subprojects is weak given the logistical constraints of visiting a large
number of subprojects. Project technical assistance is provided to the TUs and is mostly
contracted from international agencies, such as the Instituto Interamericano de CooperaVilo para
a Agricultura (IICA) and FAO.
32.   The successful cases of NGOs and other technical assistance providers participating in the
reformulated NRDP need to be replicated. One solution to the problem of the TUs' inability to
provide sufficient technical assistance and to supervise the large number of subprojects, has been
for the TUs to forge alliances with NGOs to provide technical support to communities and
monitoring services, as has been done successfully in Rio Grande do Norte with FETARN
(Federaqao Estadual dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura do Rio Grande do Norte), AACC and
other local NGOs, or to forge alliances with other technical assistance providers as in Minas
Gerais. In this latter state, for instance, EMATER provides high quality agricultural extension
services and has been more supportive and successful than in other states in contributing to
income-generating productive subprojects. However, even where there is no official alliance
between the TU and EMATER, individual extensionists may still support NRDP adpersonam. In
general, NGOs have played a mixed role. In certain states, churches, rural labor unions and some of
the more technical NGOs are playing a useful part in the implementation of subprojects -- stimulating
and helping with the initial formation of community associations or providing assistance with
submission or execution of community proposals. This has been the case, in particular, of Rio Grande
do Norte where NGOs, grouped together under the Forum do Campo, have part'icipated actively in the
project. In other states, some of the NGOs contacted through initiad publicity campaigns were unsuited
or unwilling to become involved in the reformulated NRDP, while others would only participate if
project funds were channeled through them.
33.   The World Bank Recife Office is fundamental to the implementation and supervision of
the reformulated NRDP. The World Bank's office in Recife (Pernambuco) has three task
managers dedicated exclusively to working with the ten states u:nder the project. By delegating all



- 56 -                        Annex B
supervision activities to the Recife Office, including procurement reviews and field visits, World
]Bank support is better tailored to the decentralized structure of the reformulated NRDP.
34.   Institutional analysis shows that, by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local
level organizations and municipal government, the reformulated NRDP's primary achievement has
been to support a decentralized approach to resource allocation in the rural areas of the
Northeast. Even at this early stage in the implementation of the approach adopted by the
reformulated NRDP, it is possible to draw certain conclusions about its institutional arrangements
and performance. The capacity of both communities and municipal governments to prioritize
investment decisions is strengthened by the program's subproject development and approval
process. The program has provided a fiscal incentive to decentralized decision-making, since
local level decisions are backed by inflows of project resources. The FUMAC approach, in
particular, has not only placed the power to prioritize community investment proposals with local
level organizations, but has also introduced transparency into the resource allocation process for
rural investments at the municipal level, thereby minimizing the traditional clientelistic approach.
FlUMAC provides a forum, which did not exist before, for local government representatives and
community representatives to discuss investment needs and priorities. As FUMAC spreads
beyond its current pilot phase and as municipalities gain more years of experience with the
mechanism, municipal governments will become more accustomed to participatory decision-
mnaking processes, and rural community associations will continue to exercise their voice
35.   The reformulated NRDP is nonetheless vulnerable to political interference, particularly
where local level organizations such as community associations and FUMAC Municipal Councils
are newly formed, lacking sufficient information, or without adequate technical assistance and
training, which need to be addressed in follow-up projects. Experience under the reformulated
TNRDP demonstrates that there is a fine line between participation of local political leaders in the
program, which is strongly encouraged, and politicization of the program. Politicization occurs
when transparency breaks down, which can happen if information about the project is not widely
and carefully disseminated, or when project internal controls are not enforced, such as with weak
supervision by the TUs or insufficient external support from NGOs or other third parties to
rnonitor project implementation. As municipalities increase their contributions to the financing of
NRDP investments, greater vigilance will be required to ensure that the demand-driven nature of
the project is not sacrificed. Also, the FUMAC approach which instills greater transparency into
the program's resource allocation process can fall prey to political interference if community
representation on the Councils is insufficient. In addition, where technical assistance and training
i's inadequate, sustainability of the investments is more precarious since operation and maintenance
of the investments requires certain skill sets which may not exist in some communities. Increased
"on the job" training to community associations is vital to ensure their sustainability, particularly
of newly-formed associations.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
36.   The generally satisfactory performance of the reformulated NRDP and its favorable impact
on the lives and incomes of beneficiaries show that after several years of experience with rural
development efforts in the Northeast, a good measure of success has been achieved in effectively



- 57 -                       Annex B
reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. Some of the most positive results can be
summarized as follows:
* The reformulated NRDP has put in place objective conditions for the organization of
poor communities in the ten participating states. In some of these states, organized
rural communities have shown that they can influence the allocation and use of
municipal financial resources in such a way as to favor the rural poor.
* The program has fostered the institutional and financial commitment of local
governments to its decentralized approach of addressing the needs of the rural poor.
A large number of municipalities, although not legally required either under PAC or
FUMAC, have provided financial and other types of assistance to approved
community projects. In addition, in some states, mayors have adopted the FUMAC
approach and instituted it for decision-making on non-project investments at the
municipal level.
*  Investments funded by the program have, to a large extent, (i) satisfied real
community needs; (ii) been of good or satisfactory quality and (iii) been relatively less
costly than those executed by public authorities (municipal, state and federal).
-  Beneficiary communities have adhered enthusiastically to the program; such
enthusiasm has translated into participation in the execution and in contributing to the
costs of operation and maintenance of the investments, enhancing their sense of
ownership of the subprojects.
-  Although the reformulated program does not incorporate instruments for structural
changes in the agricuiture of the Northeast, it has proven to be a valuable approach
for reaching and assisting a large number of landless families -- usually excluded from
the target groups of many other programs, including the original NRDP. Further,
land reform beneficiaries have become a very active clientele of the reformulated
program, as it provides them with opportunities to satisfy investment needs other than
those received through the government's land reform program.
* In the majority of FUMAC participating municipalities, there are encouraging signs
that the "clientelistic" approach traditionally used in the Northeast to satisfy
community needs is gradually giving way to a more genuinely participatory and
transparent approach. This transparency in decision-making has allowed a built-in
mechanism of "social control" over investments made with public funds.
37.   Nevertheless, the program could be further improved by introducing modifications to its
design, which would rectify those deficiencies that have been identified and would improve
project implementation and performance. The specific evaluation carried out in the state of
Pemambuco shows that the reformulated NRDP has raised the living standards and incomes of
beneficiaries in this state, significantly in certain cases as demonstrated by the financial and
economic results obtained by some of the sample productive subprojects (Table 8). In a number



- 58 -                       Annex B
of subprojects surveyed, however, and in particular those implemented at the start of
reformulation (late 1993-early 1994), under the previous state administration, a number of
institutional and operational shortcomings were detected: lack of beneficiaries' contribution and
participation, insufficient field supervision and monitoring by the TU, and inadequate provision of
technical assistance. Conscious of these problems, the TU has made serious efforts to correct the
course of these "problem" subprojects through the strengthening of subproject supervision,
appropriate technical assistance and training to Municipal Councils and to beneficiary associations
in operation and maintenance and revision and adjustment of faulty subproject design, where
necessary. These efforts would have to be pursued and the identified flaws corrected in the
follow-up project for the state.
:38.   Proposed modifications to the design of follow-up projects to the NRDP stemming from
these lessons, and others derived from the evaluations of the program, are as follows:
:39.   Expand FUMAC. The projects should expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal
fiunds program (FUMAC-P), to promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal
and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The
appraisal and subsequent approval of community subprojects by Municipal Councils under
IFUMAC and FUMAC-P would significantly reduce the role played by TUs in approving
subprojects --and the bias that this implies-- in the existing program. Also, FIJMAC tends to be
more effective in thwarting political interference because of the increased transparency of its
subproject approval process over that of PAC. Increasing community representation on the
Councils to at least 80% of all voting members will help Councils resist overpowering political
influence.
40.   Supervision. By the same token, supervision of subprojects by the TUs should be more
rigorous, including by contracting external assistance as in Rio Grande do Norte where FETARN
was contracted for this purpose. Supervision, both during and after implementation of the
subprojects, is an indispensable determinant of their success and sustainability. Increased supervision
would improve the quality of implementation of subprojects and would help identify and resolve
potential problems in subproject operation and subsequent maintenance.
41.   Standard Designs and Appraisal Criteria. For simplicity and efficiency in subproject
preparation, evaluation and supervision, as well as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project
Operational Manuals should establish standard engineering designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Standardization of
subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and
evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves
the quality of subprojects, encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and reducing
bottlenecks in the subproject cycle. Also, environmental assessment criteria should be part of the
Operational Manual and routinely monitored during subproject supervision.
42.   Technical Assistance and Training. Funds for technical assistance and training should
be channeled to rural communities and project Municipal Councils to enable participation of the
poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active



-59 -                         Annex B
participation of able and competent NGOs and local development agencies. ][ncreased technical
assistance to rural communities also will enable them to identify, prepare and implement their own
subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds and to operate and
maintain the subprojects appropriately. In addition, technical assistance activities should be targeted to
project Municipal Councils to improve their planning, management and financial capacity. Finally, the
quality and capacity of the Technical Unit is a critical factor in project success, and thus its institutional
strengthening, which may entail the contracting of international or bilateral aid-funded entities such as
IICA or GTZ, as is currently practiced, should receive increased attention. The TUs should actively
organize all technical assistance and training arrangements under the project and oversee the
quality of said activities.
43.   Participation and Transparency. In addition to the above measures, participation and
transparency should be further enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus
operandi of project Municipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from
community representatives and the local civil society. In addition, greater efforts by the TU to
organize and mobilize poor communities are fundamental in orcler to enable these communities to
participate in the benefits of the project.
44.   Transparency also should be promoted by incorporating a system of operational incentives
and penalties into the project design. Incentives for positive performance and penalties against
departures from project guidelines --misappropriation of resources, mistargeting of project
benefits, faulty subproject design, insufficient comrnunity participation or lack of proper O&M--
should accompany the increased decentralization of resources and decision-making responsibilities
to beneficiaries and project Municipal Councils through FUMAC and FUMAC-P. This
framework of incentives and disincentives would require backing by the TUs through ex-post
control of subproject activities through auditing of accounts, and supervision and monitoring.
45.   Finally, to minimize the risk of political manipulation and increase participation, the ten
states must better tailor their information campaigns to the rural poor and ensure that information
about the project, particularly its objectives, operational guidelines and procedures for soliciting
financing, is widely disseminated to all potential beneficiaries. Better and more widely
disseminated information campaigns will also increase transparency -- stimulating the role of
public "watchdogs" -- and will put all communities on a level playing field with respect to access
to project benefits.
46.   Sustainability. Through a system of matching grants to poor rural community associations,
the reformulated NRDP is improving the quality of life and the economic and social conditions of its
beneficiaries. By providing an initial jump-start to poor communities previously without investment
capital, the reformulated NRDP has initiated a process of local accumulation at the beneficiary and
community levels and laid the groundwork for sustainable local development. This sustainable local
development will be further encouraged through greater financial participation of municipal
governments in subproject investments, a process already underway in the ongoing projects but which
should be expanded. Sustainability ofthe subproject investments themselves also has greater potential
when the municipalities and communities contribute to the subproject financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation. Beneficiary counterpart
contributions should be better quantified and should count toward the global counterpart fund



- 60 -                        Annex B
requirements. Furthermore, increased technical assistance and training to rural communities as
well as stronger supervision by the TUs will improve the quality of implementation of subprojects
and stem potential problems in subproject operation and maintenance, which can impede
sustainability.
47.   Cost Sharing and Graduation. A strategy should be formalized to graduate
municipalities and communities from the program, once a certain level of accumulated benefits has
been reached. A fundamental element of a feasible graduation strategy would be the criteria
adopted to determine the point of graduation, backed by appropriate data which can be collected
to implement such a strategy. The strategy would need to carefully consider beneficiaries' access
to credit as well as monitorable indicators of income levels and local capacity to manage funds, as
would be demonstrated through mastery of the FUMAC-P approach.
48.   Monitoring and Evaluation. A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates
the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve targeting
and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool. To bolster the measurement
of overall project impact, the monitoring and evaluation system would need to expand the range of
project impact indicators and performance benchmarks. Examples include: increased employment for
women; improved health and related "savings" to State/municipal budgets; resource mobilization at the
local/municipal level; and indicators of migration. In addition, as mentioned above, the project
monitoring and evaluation system must be geared to collect the information necessary to support a
graduation strategy. Therefore, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the monitoring and evaluation
system of the projects should be improved to reinforce the mechanisms for targeting and to secure
reliable data for evaluating subproject impact, as well as to facilitate better control and project
nmanagement throughout the subproject cycle by the TUs.
49.   "Best Practice" Exchanges. Across the ten states of the reformulated NRDP, there exist
numerous successful interventions that could be replicated to the benefit of the whole program,
such as the experience with EMATER in Minas Gerais or with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte. In
addition, certain states have adopted technical parameters or have developed training materials
which have produced positive results and should be disseminated throughout the program. Thus,
"best practice" exchanges should be arranged among the TUs to share successful experiences and
tc, reward innovation. More importantly, at the state level, community associations with
successful subprojects or possessing certain skills should also be encouraged to share these with
other associations through training seminars and workshops.



- 61-                                                  Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 1. PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by State
(as of June 30, 1996)
State        Number of Community Proposals1'                Implemented                               Subproject Types 3/
Total      PAC       FUMAC          Total 6/     PAC       FUMAC        Infrastructure Productive   Social    Total
Sergipe-4              1,565       1,321       244            600         501        99              398            80       122         600
Rio Grande do Norte 4'  1,972      1,827       145             769        694        75              183           572        14         769
Pemambuco5'            4,573       3,942       631           1,237       1,073      164              688           455        94        1,237
Bahia4'               14,076      12,502      1,574          2,701      2,297       404            1,523         1,167         11      2,701
Piaui 5                3,945       3,451       494           1,569       1,417      152            1,068           320        181       1,569
Ceara4'                4,651       4,194       457           3,025      2,695       330            1,698         1,185       142       3,025
Paraiba                1,814       1,162       652             442        166       276              308           129          5        442
Minas Gerais           3,276       2,035      1,241          1,173        669       504              738           327        108       1,173
Maranhao               4,323       3,267      1,056          1,786       1,076      710            1,075           582        129       1,786
Alagoas                  870        812         58             456        429        27              334           101        21         456
Total                 41,065      34,513     6,552          13,758     11,017     2,741            8,013         4,918       827      13,758
1/  Community subproject proposals received by the State Technical Units.
2/  Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation.
3/  Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation, by type.
4/  Loans closed on December 31, 1995.
5/  Loans closed on June 30, 1996.
6/ In addition, negotiations with beneficiary associations were in process on 10,202 other approved subprojects in the 10 states.



- 62 -                            Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 2. Community Demand - Percentage Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type
(as of June 30, 1996)
Total NRDP     NRDP           NRDP         NRDP
Type of Project    (All states)  Pernambuco   Rio Grande     Piaui
do Norte
Water supply             15.6          8.0           9.8           2.2
Rural electrification   27.5          40.0           5.7          18.4
Farm tractor             5.9          11.0          11.3           4.7
Manioc flour mill        6.7           3.0           5.0           3.2
House improvement        2.7           8.0           0.0           8.9
Small-scale irrigation   1.8           2.0           3.6           1.3
Sanitation               1.2           4.0           4.7           0.0
Clothes-making           2.3           1.0          10.6           1.7
Bridges                  2.3           2.0           0.4           2.1
Brick-making              1.0          0.7           0.5           0.0
Rice processing           1.1          0.0           0.0           2.1
Localized road           3.1           0.3           0.0          10.7
rehabilitation
Maize processing          1.1          0.4           0.6           0.0
Child day care centers   0.5           0.0           0.0           0.1
Cashew processing        0.4           0.0           2.7           0.6
Other                   26.8          19.6          45.2          44.0
Total                  100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0



- 63 -                                                        Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 3. Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
(as of June 30, 1996)
State                   Number of Municipalities t'
in the     In the        With implemented               Number of approved             Subprojects / municipality
State  Project Area         subprojects                     subprojects
Total    PAC   FUMAC           Total     PAC    FUMAC           Total     PAC    FUMAC
Sergipe                75        74          74        67        7          600       501       99            8.1       7.5      14.1
Rio Grande do Norte    159       158        136       127         9         769       694       75            5.7       5.5       8.3
Pemambuco             174        167        161       145        16        1,237     1,073     164            7.7       7.4      10.3
Bahia                 415       264         264       237        27        2,701     2,297     404           10.2       9.7      15.0
Piaui                 148        123        117       107        10        1,569     1,417     152           13.4      13.2      15.2
Ccara                 178       176         195       168       27         3,025    2,695      330           15 5      16 0      1212
Paraiba               171        109         82        61        21          442      166      276            5.4       2.7      13.1
Minas Gerais           50         50         50        32        18        1,173      669      504           23.5      20.9      28.0
Maranhao              136        135        121        94        27        1,786     1,076     710           14.8       11.4     26.3
Alagoas                97         57         58        55         3         456       429       27            7.9       7.8       9.0
Total               1,603      1,313      1,254     1,093      165        13,758   11,017    2,741           10.9      10.1      16.6
1/  The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the Project Area because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.



-64-                                                      Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 4. Average Cost of Subprojects Implemented per Project, Type and State
State                                                       Average Cost (US$)
PAC                                               FUMAC                                  Total
Infrastructure  Productive   Social    Total     Infrastructure  Productive    Social      Total
Sergipe              28,122      23,209      22,452    26,211         25,533        21,199      23,358       24,569           25,940
Rio Grande do Norte   24,926     30,228      28,614    28,951         23,854         32,214     ..............    29,134      28,969
Pernanbuco           27,251      29,347      26,332    28,022         29,317         28,505     25,105       28,782           28,123
Bahia                19,457      22,217      20,660    20,654         20,911         22,620     21,600       21,652           20,803
Piaui                20,151       19,327     35,368    21,752         19,153         22,797     26,461       20,546           21,635
Ceara                20,608      30,837      26,214    24,926         23,735        31,393      28,386       27,330           25,188
Paraiba              10,460        9,415     16,184    10,271         14,463         24,259      17,869      17,208            14,603
Minas Gerais         31,800      28,100      31,000    30,788         28,700         26,200     29,400       27,988           29,585
Maranhao             28,551       16,043     24,489    20,648         26,165         23,840      33,036      26,804            23,095
Alagoas              23,590       12,565     14,250    20,684         23,620          8,975      13,420      20,695           20,685
Total                                                  23,793                                                25,081           24,044



-65 -                                             Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 5. Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type
STATE                                                         (US$)
Manioc  Farm  Water supply   Water   Small   Rural    Rice         House    Small-scale         Clothes
Type of Project:    flour  tractor  (simplified   supply    dam   electrif.  process.  improvement  irrigation  Bridge making
mill           system)   (all types)
Sergipe             11,300 29,035    30,500     29,601     -----  23,692     -----     24,437       ------  25,935    ------
Rio Grande do Norte   18,692 33,700    17,200   22,172   28,603  19,407      -----      ------     25,020   18,337  20,796
Pernambuco          24,000 31,000    29,000     30,000   29,000  28,000   30,000       28,000      29,000   28,000  25,000
Bahia                7,416 19,918    14,544     14,500   13,154  20,514   10,897       18,870      18,970   20,391  22,727
Piaui                5,843 30,825    16,800      8,722   22,343  26,383    8,859       30,897      17,701   27,969  18,428
Ceara               18,526 37,676    -------    21,840   27,324  22,650   24,273       25,298      29,616   28,114  26,910
Paraiba              9,314 38,954     8,275      8,413   22,463  17,074    2,339           ---     11,711      ---  13,423
Minas Gerais        27,600 31,800      ------    27,400   25,800  31,800     -----     33,000      17,000   33,800  23,500
Maranh-a             7,530 31,988    19,537     24,30s   23n98AR  2R817R   17901      29,500      21,192   15,739  20,353
Alagoas             12,425 18,735    16,050     23,625    9,615  27,202    -------      ------     27,970   28,850    ------
Total               17,036 32,535    19,450     17,387   23,225  24,555   14,217       29,121      24,127   25,625  22,857



- 66 -                                               Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 6. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, US$ million
(as of July 19, 1996)
State           Original Loan    Disbursement at    Cancellations          Actual             Already           Outstanding
Amount        Reformulation '                        Disbursement      Committed after        Balance
after         Reformulation 3/
Reformulation
Sergipe5'                    61.3              39.9                1.0               20.4                0.0                 0.0
Rio Grande do Norte          61.4              36.1               10.0               15.1                0.0                 0.2
Pernambuco6'                 92.0              51.8              20.0                19.5                3.2                 0.8
Bahia                       171.0              59.4              60.0                47.8                0.0                 3.8
CearAn'                     122.0              45.1              30.0                39.8                0.0                 7.2
Piaui 6'                     78.0              34.0              25.0                17.7                1.1                 0.3
Paraiba                      60.0              24.0                0.0               19.0               14.4                 3.5
Minas Gerais                 55.0              14.1                0.0               15.6               13.6                12.3
Maranhao                     84.0              25.0                0.0               19.6                8.2                33.4
Alagoas                      42.0              12.6                0.0                4.9                7.5                17.3
Total                       826.7             342.0             146.0               219.3               48.0                78.7
1/     Refornulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2/     Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994.
3/     Loan amounts received by the States; part of them already subject to Applications sent to the Bank, part subject to SOEs sent by the States to STN and
the remaining being used for later SOEs to be presented to STN by the States.
4/     Deducting the amounts already committed - see 3/ above- plus the balance of the Special Accounts.
5/     Loan closed on December 31, 1995.
6/     Loan closed on June 30, 1996.



- 67 -                                  Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 7. SSMP Selected Data on Major Types of Subp rojects in Pernambuco
Total No. of
Subprojects
being
Implemented      Total No. of       Cost per
and/or        Beneficiaries    Beneficiary
Subproject Type               Completed         (Families)         (US$)
Infrastructure
Rural water supply (10%)"/                   121            22,806              159
Rural electrification (39%)"l                482            30,107              445
Productive
Manioc mills (4%)!'                           47             2,350              168
Tractors for comnmunal use (12%)"/           151             9,362             409
Small-scale irrigation (2%/o)"'               30            2,457              362
Social
Health-related house improvement (7%/o)"8     85             8,840             228
" Percentage of all subprojects approved in the state.



-68-                                                               Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 8. Socio-economic Benefits of Representative Productive Subprojects in Pernambuco
Subproject Type     Total     Total Net       Net          Total        Internal Rate of Return          Cost Effectiveness
No. of   Incremental  Incremental  Incremental
Jobs    Income per   Income per   Crop Area                                        Total
Created      Year      Beneficiary                                             Investment per     Benefit-
(US$'000)    per Year                   Financial     Economic       Job Created     Cost Ration'
(US$)        (ha)          (%)            (%)            (USS)
Manioc mills (47)2     483        634           270          1,786         >50             >50            1,535             1.3
Tractors for         3,443      2,979           318         32,918         >50             >50            1,095             1.3
communal use (151)2?
Small-scale irrigation    1,145  3,290        1,339           840         >100           >100              457             2.3
(3)21 3/
(30)-
l' Real discount rate is 10%.
2/ Total no. of subprojects implemented (see Table 7).
3' Only one subproject could be surveyed in this category.



-69 -                          Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Table 9. Financial Sustainability Analysis of Selected Productive Subprojects in Pernambuco
Item/Subproject Type                        Manioc Mill   Farm Tractor
Number of associations                      47             151
Average net income per association (US$)/   2,227          4,685
Average cost of subproject (US$)            21,195         31,124
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)             12             10
To build replacement fund (years)2'         7              5
Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent
costs.
2/     Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace
the original investment, which is much less than the useful econoniic life of the
investment. The real interest rate is assumed to be 10%.



- 70 -                           Annex C
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
C. TARGETING MECHANISMS AND PROJECT
MUNICIPALITIES
1.    Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is
proposed that targeting occur at three levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the
municipalities;
(b)   geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and
communities; and,
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly
vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
2.    Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area.
All municipalities, with the exception of the metropolitan area of Recife', are included in
the project area, bringing the total project municipalities to 180, including 8 new
municipalities to be created as of January 1, 199, through the subdivision of existing
municipalities. Targeting of these municipalities takes into consideration the concentration
of income and economic activity in the metropolitan area and the higher incidence of
poverty in the municipalities of the interior, manifested by such indicators as the rate of
indigence2, availability of municipal resources, and other socio-economic indicators (see
Table). According to IPEA (1993), 89% of the project municipalities suffer a rate of
indigence greater than 40%, and 37% have an indigence rate greater than 50%. In
The metropolitan area of Recife comprises the municipalities of Jaboatao, Olinda, Paulista and
Recife.
Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by
IPEA divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA,
March 1993.



- 71-                            Annex C
addition, since rural poverty in Pemambuco is closely correlated with the poor natural
resource base, the harsh agro-climatic conditions and concentration of land ownership, the
project area includes the entire semi-arid region of the state (90% of the state falls within
the "drought polygon") and includes the area currently assisted by the reformulated
NRDP, characterized as small farm areas, both in the semi-arid region and more humid
Mata Atldntica region (para. 1.17) with primarily smallholdlers, sharecroppers and wage
workers, who depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating activities in which the
subsistence production of maize, beans, manioc and rice, and small livestock
predorrinates.
3 .    Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP,
estimation of the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and
"progressiveness" of the mayor and municipal administration. The criteria for selection of
FUMAC-P municipalities is included in Annex F. As an incentive and basis for a
reasonable rate of development for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils, a minimum of 5
subprojects would be financed annually for each of these Councils. Adopting this rule and
based on the average unit cost of NRDP subprojects in Pernambuco , amounts initially
allocated to the two subcomponents would permit the establishment of 60 FUMAC
Councils and 10 FUMAC-P Councils during the project period.
4.    Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, that within
municipalities, focuses on rural settlements and communities. Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population under 7,'500 people.
5.    Community-based Selection. The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge
which community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality
and/or each community. The process of consensus-building at the local level by project
Municipal Councils helps to ensure that only poor communities benefit from the project.
During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria such as the socio-economic situation of
the participating communities, including existing infrastructure and availability of services,
would be discussed as part of the ranking of subprojects within the municipality. The
composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80% are representatives from rural
communities and local civil society, as well as the clear and transparent rules and
procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which facilitate targeting
poor beneficiaries. Finally, indicative targets set for social subprojects and those which
benefit women in particular, should be considered by the PMunicipal Councils as criteria for
subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide ranking
decisions.
6.    The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the
project monitoring system and though ex-post evaluation studies. For example, annual
physical performance reviews (Annex H) would monitor the targeting of project benefits.
Also, the project implementation review (Annex H) would measure the ability of the



- 72 -                          Annex C
project to target and reach the poor. Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting
methodology would be based on these ex-post reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
GRADUATION STRATEGY
7.    The demand-driven community development model presented in the proposed
project is expected to increase the income-generating capacity and standards of living in
the beneficiary communities. Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest
rural communities, certain communities with better socio-economic standing relative to
others would receive fewer investment resources during the course of project
implementation. These communities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and
other benefits from this and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access
to other sources of financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary.
In order to formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community
graduation strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for
sustainable asset-accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and
community organization, would no longer be eligible for project matching grants.
8.    To make this judgment, baseline profiles of beneficiary communities would be
developed using indicators of community well-being collected from community subproject
proposals. Each subproject proposal would be accompanied by a 'fact sheet' to be filled
out by the community which would provide indication of the community's socio-economic
standing. The questions asked would extract information on benefits from previous
subprojects as well as from NRDP and other public programs, existing infrastructure and
access to social services, and indicators of accumulation/savings, such as: (a) the average
income of families in the community, in terms of minimum wages; (b) the average portion
of this income which families dedicate to buy food; (c) the average portion of family
income dedicated to buying medicines; and (d) the percentage of community households
which have electricity, which have secure access to water and/or treated water, and which
have access to a health post. The information contained in the baseline community profiles
would be incorporated in the MIS, and regularly updated through monitoring and
supervision exercises.
9.    At the end of the second year, the project would finance a study to determine the
point at which a community would be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage as well as
the "take-off' point, the point at which a community would graduate out of the project.
The study would be based on a comparison of community profiles and on information
from the baseline impact evaluation (see Annex H). Using this analysis, PRORURAL (for
PAC) and the Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), with the support of
PRORURAL, would graduate those communities which have reached this "take-off'
point. As communities graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities
would gradually receive less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate
from the project as well.



- 73 -                          Annex D
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
1.    The success of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project in Pernambuco in meeting its
stated objectives depends primarily on the strength of four organizations: (a) community
organizations; (b) Municipal Councils; (c) the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (d)
participating governmental and non-governmental agencies.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
2.    Community associations are the legitimate represerLtatives of the beneficiaries
before the Municipal Councils and the State under the project, and the project will only
benefit those communities organized into legally-constituted civil associations. This
prerequisite helps ensure that the project meets the needs of a representative group from a
given community and not simply the needs of its more vocal or politically influential
constituents. Due to the rather cumbersome legal process in Brazil for forming
associations, the project only requires that the association be legally constituted once the
subproject proposal has been approved.
3.    Under Brazilian law, the leadership of community associations consists of the
Executive Board of Directors, the General Assembly and lhe Fiscal Council. The
Executive Board of Directors comprises the President, Secretary, and T'reasurer and the
Coordinators of any special working groups within the Association. These fixed-term
positions are filled by the vote of the General Assembly which meets regularly every three
months to discuss and vote on the Association's work program and internal procedures.
All decisions made by the General Assembly are registered in official documents (atas)
and signed by all members present. This procedure is reflected in the identification and
prioritization of subprojects: a subproject proposal addresses the needs of a majority of
the association, as voted by its members, and therefore is accompanied by an ata signed by
the association members. The fiscal council, normally cornposed of three members,
supervises all of the association's activities and functions as internal auditor of all financial
transactions made by the association. The principal source of resources for most
associations is monthly dues paid by members.
4.    Community associations are the foundation of project implementation. The
associations are responsible for formulating ideas for subprojects and submitting these
proposals to the Municipal Councils or PCU for financing. The General Assembly



- 74 -                          Annex D
deliberates and votes on each subproject proposal thereby ensuring that these subprojects
attend to the needs of the majority of the association members. The signed ata which
accompanies each subproject proposal attests to the association's commitment to the
subproject. Once a subproject has been approved, the community association enters into a
legally binding agreement with the PCU and/or Municipal Council through which the
funds to implement the subproject are passed to the association. The association, in most
cases, is responsible for all procurement and record-keeping during the implementation of
the subproject. This agreement also binds the association to provide the necessary
counterpart contribution to implement the subproject (which can include labor, materials
or cash) and the future operation and maintenance of the subproject, which in the case of
certain infrastructure projects the association can transfer to appropriate public sector
agencies (e.g., the electricity company, for rural electrification subprojects).
5.    Implementation of subprojects therefore implies significant responsibility for the
community associations and the communities which they represent, and is a source of
empowerment for them. Charging the communities with the primary responsibility for the
implementation of their own subprojects assures better quality and reinforces their sense of
ownership. The supervision and administration of the subprojects is carried out by an
elected Supervision and Control Committee, which oversees the subproject from start to
finish and reports back to the association on progress. This Committee of 3 to 4 persons
is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and non-
members within the community. The members of the Committee are elected by the
beneficiaries-at-large and are recognized as having some experience or knowledge in the
area of the proposed subproject. The Committee visits the subproject regularly and
monitors subproject implementation, costs, procurement, and community contribution, as
well as any potential problems.. The Supervision and Control Committee therefore acts as
a "'community watchdog" to ensure that subproject funds and the community's
contribution are invested in accordance with the subproject agreement and that the
investment is of a high quality.
MUNICIPAL COUNCILS
6.    Under the proposed project, FllMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may be
formed as legally-constituted civil organizations or may be established through Municipal
decree. In the latter case, the Council must nonetheless be granted administrative and
financial autonomy from the local municipal government. The size of the Municipal
Councils will vary across municipalities (usually between 10 and 15 members) and their
profile will be representative of the beneficiary communities. 80% of the voting power of
the Council is granted to representatives of community associations and of local civil
society, such as NGOs, labor unions and religious organizations. The remaining 20%
represent Municipal Government and other public institutions such as EMATER. The
PCU has a seat on the Council with the right to voice but not vote. Members of the
Council are elected for one-year terms (which can be renewed once) by a community
assembly.



- 75 -                          Annex D
7.    While the Municipal Councils act independently of the Municipal IGovernment, the
participation and support of the latter is nonetheless quite important. Experience under
the reformulated NRDP has demonstrated that the mayors and municipal leadership
welcome the project Municipal Councils as an instrument to meet basic community needs
to which their municipal budgets cannot realistically attend. The participation of the
mayor is fundamental in creating a synergy between the priorities of the Council and the
Municipal Government's investment program. In this sense, the project Municipal
Council is not seen as a parallel institution to Municipal Government but as a counterpart.
8.    Municipal Councils are the key organization for the targeting of project benefits
and the allocation of resources under the proposed project. The Councils have a
fundamental role in mobilizing communities and fomenting community participation in
decision-making at the municipal level. By their nature as open, representative and
democratic bodies which build consensus on priorities, the Municipal Councils instill
transparency into the decision-making process for FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments.
The Councils receive, prioritize and approve subproject pro-posals from the beneficiary
associations. The monthly meetings of the Municipal Councils are widely publicized and
the public is encouraged to attend them. At these meetings, the beneficiary associations
present their subproject ideas to the Council. The Council cdeliberates and prioritizes the
subproject proposals based on its determination of the needs of the different communities,
and on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing infrastructure of each
community in relation to the rest of the municipality; the type of subproject to be financed
and its potential to improve the life quality of the beneficiary population; and the
demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the identification of the
subproject and its commitment to the implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance of the subproject. The Municipal Councils' pri.oritization process is the basis
of targeting in the project since the communities themselves through the Councils
determine where project resources will best be applied based on their first-hand
knowledge of local investment needs. The Council ranks the subprojects in priority order
based on the vote of the Council members. The subproject approval process is based on
technical and eligibility criteria. The Municipal Council screens the FUMAC/FUMAC-P
subprojects based on pre-established technical, environmental and cost/financial standards
(see Annex G) and either approves or rejects the proposals. Rejected subprojects are
returned to the beneficiary association with recommendations to improve the proposal.
Decisions for approval or rejection of subproject proposals are also determined by vote.
Approved subprojects are either sent by FUMAC Councils to the PCU in order of priority
for financing or, in the case of FUMAC-P, financed directly by the relevant Councils.
9.    A FUMAC-P Council bases its investment decisions on an Annual Operating Plan
(POA), developed with the assistance of the PCU at the start of every fiscal year. This
POA, which is voted on by Council members after detailed deliberations, establishes the
development priorities of the municipality to be addressed with project resources. Based
on the POA, the PCU transfers the allotted budget to the Council who, on the basis of
subprojects approved, will transfer the resources to the beneficiary associations on the
basis of signed, legal agreements. This concept of approving subprojects within a budget
envelope enhances the Council's capacity to program and prioritize investments. If, on



- 76 -                          Annex D
the other hand, the Council's performance is unsatisfactory, it will run the risk of seeing its
budget envelope reduced the following year.
10.   Municipal Councils also supervise the implementation of subprojects in the
communities and work closely with the Community Control and Supervision Committee in
this respect. The Councils are well placed to provide this assistance. Given their
proximity to the communities and their lines of communication both with the PCU and
with the communities themselves, Municipal Councils are effective trouble-shooters for
subproject implementation problems.
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
11.   The PCU is the focal point for project administration and for communication with
the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's principal liaison for the
Municipal Councils and for those community associations located in PAC municipalities.
In Pernambuco, the PCU is PRORURAL, an entity under the State Secretariat of Planning
(see Organizational Chart at the end of this annex). Under the proposed project,
PRORURAL will shed some of its executive responsibilities that it held under the
reformulated NRDP and increase its monitoring, technical assistance and supervision
responsibilities. It will promote decentralization and community participation in the
project by delegating tasks to Municipal Councils and participating state and non-
governmental organizations.
12.   The organizational structure of PRORURAL reflects its new role of advancing
project implementation rather than direct execution of project tasks. PRORURAL is in
the process of restructuring to strengthen its field presence and will establish ten regional
offices with at least three technical staff, in function of the demand presented, in addition
to its headquarters in Recife. Under this new structure, the Executive Director and three
Department Directors (Planning, Operations, and Administration and Finance) would be
supported by 8 section chiefs and about 80 professional staff, of which at least 30 would
be located in the field, and corresponding administrative staff. This increased field
presence reflects the PCU's focus on monitoring and supervision and will provide needed
additional support to Municipal Councils who, together with contracted NGOs, will take
over the majority of PRORURAL's field supervision and trouble-shooting tasks.
PRORURAL's principal tasks under the project will include: (i) project planning and
coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project's Management Information System (MIS); (ii) promoting the
project and encouraging participation of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and
private sector entities; (iii) preparing project implementation reports and organizing
evaluation exercises; (iv) ensuring timely and adequate provision of loan and state
counterpart funds; (v) appraising and approving all PAC subproject proposals; (vi)
entering into subproject agreements with community associations (PAC) and Municipal
Councils (FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils,
to transfer subproject funds and monitor their use; (vii) overseeing all monitoring and



-77-                            Annex D
supervision activities under the project to gauge compliance with project guidelines and to
improve the quality of subprojects and project interventions, ensuring that environmental
guidelines for subproject approval and implementation are followed; (viii) providing
technical assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (ix) preparing
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and (x) ensuring
that procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are
followed. To increase PRORURAL's capacity to undertake some of these tasks,
particularly with respect to stimulating the mobilization and organization of communities
and providing technical assistance to them, training in specific areas will be organized for
PRORURAL staff under the institutional development component of the project (para.
15). In the area of environmental impact assessment, PRORURAL will be provided
training as well as assistance from specialized state agencies such as the Environmental
Secretariat (SMA) and the Water Resources Council (CPRH:).
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
13.   The project, through the community subproject methodology, is expected to lay
the groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory institutions and processes at the
municipal and community levels. Formed into community associations, the rural
population is gaining a voice and a role in political participation which it did not have as
individuals. When communities organizes themselves to receive benefits from the project,
and then contribute to and operate and maintain the investments, this sense of ownership
of the investments empowers the communities and their organization and commitment are
being rewarded. When this level of organization is apparent at the municipal level, and the
official municipal leadership supports participatory decision-making, the municipality
enters FUMAC. The project Municipal Council in FUMAC formalizes the communities'
voice in the establishment of investment priorities at the municipal level. FUMAC also
forges a partnership between the communities and municipal leadership as both groups
contribute to the financing of investments, thus leveraging project funds. As Municipal
Councils gain experience and capacity, progressing from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, they
increase their bearing and influence on public resource programming at the municipal level
while also reinforcing a sustainable participatory process. In Serra do Mel, for example, a
highly organized municipality in the northeastern state of Rio Grande do Norte where the
FUMAC program has operated with great success, members of the Municipal Council
declared that the participatory process engendered by FUMAC had become so ingrained
in the public decision-making process that changes in municipal administration could not
undermine it, but only support it.
14.  Implementation capacity is central to the successful performance of the community
subprojects subcomponent and, hence, of the project's development objectives. The
implementation capacity of the various institutions participating in the project --
beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, public and non-governmental agencies, and
PRORURAL -- is specifically addressed by the institutional development subcomponent.
This subcomponent provides resources to finance appropriate technical assistance and



- 78 -                            Annex D
training in order that each group acquire the capabilities needed to effectively perform its
functions under the project (for operational details, see Annex E).
15.   The institutional development component will give community associations access
to funds for community mobilization and organizational strengthening. Beneficiary
associations will also have access to expertise on subproject preparation and execution, as
well as training in operation and maintenance techniques to derive optimal benefit from
subproject investments. By providing training in financial administration, the project will
also prepare these groups to manage productive activities which open doors for future
income-generating endeavors. To fully develop their potential leadership role at the
municipal level and to fulfill their role within the project, Municipal Councils will require
assistance to orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community
investments and, in the FUMAC-P program, to develop their capacity for investment
planning and financial administration. Municipal Councils will also themselves serve as a
source of technical advice for comrnunity associations. PRORURAL, in its refined role as
project facilitator, will require training to master effective monitoring and supervision
techniques as well as enhanced project management and other skills. Where PRORURAL
subcontracts its responsibilities to NGOs or other state agencies, these institutions may
also receive specific training under the project. Also, because the fiscal situation of the
State affects both project implementation and state counterpart funding, technical
assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues surrounding the reform of the State
and to identify measures to improve the State's capacity to address the inherent causes of
its fiscal deficit situation.



- 79 -                                              Annex D
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE STATE rCU
PRORURAL
PERNAMBUCO
State Secretariat of
Planning
(SEPLAN)
Superintendent
(PRORURAL)
Technical                                                 Deputy
Administrative                                          Superintendent
Council
Special Advisory
Office
Legal Advisory                                              Project
Office                                               Management
_________________________________________Office
Planning                                    Operations                                   FinanciaV
Department                                   Department                                 Administrative
I   ~~~~~~~~~D                 e p a rtm e n t
L   Regional
Offices



- 80 -                           Annex E
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING AND
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY-BUILDING
1.    Technical assistance and training are fundamental inputs into the subproject cycle
and overall project implementation. Evaluations of the reformulated NRDP highlight the
importance of technical assistance and training to community associations, project
Municipal Councils and Project Coordinating Units (PCUs), in order to ensure higher
quality planning and implementation and greater sustainability of subprojects and to
augment the development impact of the project. Under the proposed Pemambuco Rural
Poverty Alleviation project, technical assistance would be provided in two forms: (a) the
Institutional Development component; and (b) a percentage of subproject cost targeted to
technical assistance. Details on the operational aspects for the provision of technical
assistance are included in the project Operational Manual.
2.    The Institutional Development Component. The Institutional Development
component is an important resource for the strengthening of PRORURAL, Municipal
Councils and community associations. This component directs technical assistance and
training, primarily community mobilization and preparation assistance, to Municipal
Councils and community associations. Since the component is not tied to the subproject
cycle, communities and Municipal Councils can receive assistance independent of whether
they have an approved subproject or approved portfolio of subprojects, respectively. The
resources of the Institutional Development component would finance a variety of
capacity-building programs, such as:
(a)   Mobilization assistance to beneficiary associations: PRORURAL (for
PAC) and Municipal Councils (for FUTMAC and FUMAC-P) would
formulate and fund strategies to extend mobilization assistance to those
communities lacking in organization and thus not initially in a position to
benefit from the project. Such assistance would include community
workshops to determine priority needs, training to community groups in
organization skills and helping them with the process of forming legal
associations, etc.;
(b)   Introductory Municipal Council training program: PRORURAL would
organize this program which would train FUMAC Municipal Councils on
the project philosophy, subproject cycle and Operational Manual
guidelines, and FUMAC-P Councils on budgeting and administration;



- 81 -                           Annex E
(c)    Specialized skills training: PRORURAL, the project Councils, and groups
of community associations, would receive, on a demand basis, practical
"on-the-job training" in areas such as monitoring techniques, financial
administration, as well as specific technical topics in support of subproject
implementation and operation and maintenance (e.g., for groups of
community associations on water use);
(d)   Standard subproject design training: standardized projects will reduce the
need for intensive technical assistance in subp:roject preparation for the
majority of subproject types requested. The standard subproject models
are especially helpful to communities lacking experience in subproject
preparation. Workshops organized at the municipal level with Municipal
Councils and community leaders would provide technical assistance in the
use of standard subprojects;
(e)   "Best Practice" exchanges: PRORURAL and Municipal Councils would
finance technical exchanges among community associations with similar
subprojects. These exchanges have proven to be an effective way to
transfer know-how on subproject operation and maintenance from
community associations with successful subprojects to associations
initiating new subprojects. In addition, exchanges among Municipal
Councils within the state and among PCUs throughout the Northeast could
be financed to disseminate successful experiences across states; and
(f)    Technical assistance for State reform. Because the fiscal situation of the
State affects both project implementation and state counterpart funding,
technical assistance at the state level is needecl to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve
the State's capacity to overcome fiscal crisis and address its underlying
causes. The Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through PRORURAL,
will have access to technical assistance funds .For consultant services and
studies required for administrative and other state reforms.
3.    For access to funds from the Institutional Development component., PRORURAL
and each Municipal Council would prepare, as part of the Annual Operating Plan (POA), a
technical assistance and training proposal indicating proposed beneficiaries (by type),
numbers of activities (e.g., events, consultants, etc.), expected subject matter and
estimated costs. The aggregate dollar amount of technical assistance included in each
proposal would be based on a series of parameters, such as the number of subprojects
expected, the estimated number of new Municipal Councils, the estimated number of
communities needing mobilization assistance or general technical support, etc. During the
course of the year, each actual technical assistance and training event would require
detailed terms of reference, outlining the objective and contents of each event.
PRORURAL would provide the Municipal Councils with a framework for the annual
technical assistance and training proposals and with model terms of reference to facilitate
their access to Institutional Development funds.



-82 -                           Annex E
4.    Types of contracts under the Institutional Development component would range
from short-term contracts for single training events, to longer-term retainer contracts for a
series of training or technical assistance activities to be performed over a period of time.
For example, Municipal Councils may contract the services of a local extension agent to
follow-up and provide technical assistance to all community subprojects within the
municipality. Also, training in basic accounting and recordkeeping may be needed by a
number of community associations with productive subprojects and would best be handled
by having PRORURAL contract a specialized NGO to conduct in situ training with
various community associations over a period of a year. The flexibility of contract types
reflects the diversity of technical assistance and training needs of the various entities
participating in the project. However, to reduce the administrative task of processing a
series of contracts and to take advantage of economies of scale, technical assistance and
training events would be packaged whenever possible.
5.    The funds for institutional development at the project level will be administered by
PRORURAL. PRORURAL will contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC
program and in cases of packaging or upon request by the Municipal Councils within the
FUMAC program. FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may contract technical
assistance and training for themselves or, upon request, for beneficiary associations, with
the assistance of PRORLURAL and on the basis of standard terms of reference.
PRORURAL would monitor the use of institutional development funds by the Municipal
Councils and likewise by beneficiary associations through review of statements of
expenditure (SOEs) and periodic supervision.
6.    Percentage of subproject cost targeted to technical assistance. At the
discretion of community associations, subproject proposals may include an allocation of
the total amount to be directed to the contracting of technical assistance for preparation
and/or implementation of the subproject. The percentage would vary from 2% to 8% of
the subproject cost, and would be subject to criteria such as the complexity of the
subproject, whether a standard subproject exists, and other factors, with the final
determination made by the Municipal Councils (FUMAC and FUMAC-P) and
PRORURAL (PAC).
7.    For technical assistance and training financed as a percentage of the subproject
cost, each proposed program would need to be described in detail in the subproject
proposal. For technical assistance during subproject preparation, the service provider
would necessarily work in an "at-risk" situation, since the reimbursement for services
provided would only be provided if the subproject is indeed approved and funded under
the project. However, to avoid the risk of hampering the provision --under this mode-- of
technical assistance for subproject preparation, community associations can request
Municipal Councils to use resources from the institutional development component instead
to contract the required assistance. For technical assistance provided as a percentage of
subproject cost after subproject approval, the funds allocated to technical assistance would
be disbursed to the beneficiary association directly. The beneficiary association would



- 83 -                            Annex E
contract the extensionist/entity under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank and
described in the Operational Manual. For "turn-key"-type contracts, where the technical
assistance provider helps prepare and then implement the subproject, a smaller percentage
would be paid for the preparation assistance vis-a-vis the implementation assistance, in
order to direct the financial incentive toward the successful irnplementation of the
subproject.
8.    For greater effectiveness, technical assistance to subprojects should extend into the
post-implementation (i.e., operation and maintenance) period, particularly for productive
subprojects where success depends on the association's capacity to operate and administer
the small enterprise. Therefore, as a prerequisite for approval of productive subprojects,
community associations would have to provide a satisfactory technical assistance plan with
the service provider identified. In addition, as part of their commitment to sufficiently
operate and maintain their subprojects, the community associations should include
technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out of the O&M funds
maintained by each association. PRORURAL and the Municipal Councils would actively
encourage this practice during routine monitoring and supervision.
SERVICE PROVIDERS
9.    The identification and mobilization of technical assistance and training providers is
a crucial complement to the availability of resources. The most important lproviders of
technical assistance would continue to be PRORURAL and the project Municipal
Councils. Other service providers are readily identifiable frorri their participation in the
reformulated NRDP:
(a)   Multilateral and bilateral technical assistance agencies--international
technical assistance organizations contracted by PRORIURAL can provide
technical assistance to PRORURAL and the M[unicipal Councils at the
project level;
(b)   EMATER extensionists--in each municipality, local accredited agents
would be identified by PRORURAL to be contracted by individual
community associations for work on a particular subproject, or by
Municipal Councils, on a retainer contract, for clearly-specified work with
several communities. As a rule, the project would channel resources (only
for incremental operating costs; not salaries) directly to the local level and
not to the central, state-level agency, thereby stimulating greater local
participation, rewarding effective agents and penalizing those that do not
effectively provide the assistance needed; and,



- 84 -                           Annex E
(c)   NGOs--staff from local grassroots organizations can serve as accredited
agents, as described in the paragraph above, or the NGOs themselves can
enter into contracts with associations, the Municipal Councils or
PRORURAL for global or specific technical assistance and training
activities.
10.   PRORLTRAL and Municipal Councils would be charged with developing lists and
contacting other potential sources of technical assistance, such as: university students,
local private organizations, private extensionists, and state agencies. These lists would be
updated annually and would be available at the local level.
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
11.   To create institutional incentives in PRORURAL to promote accountability for
technical assistance and training activities, technical assistance would need to be a more
visible and effective line function within PRORURAL. PRORURAL would therefore
nominate from among its staff a high-level Technical Assistance Coordinator. The
Coordinator would be responsible for overseeing the Institutional Development
component and the technical assistance arrangements stemming from the percentage
method, described above. The main tasks of the Coordinator would be to: (a) develop
the technical assistance and training framework under the project; (b) identify and contact
potential technical assistance providers and maintain updated lists for each municipality
and for the project as a whole; (c) identify and prepare potential local accredited agents;
(d) prepare the annual technical assistance and training proposal for the project; (e) assist
the Municipal Councils in the preparation of the annual technical assistance and training
proposals and review the proposals presented by each Municipal Council; (f) develop
model terms of reference for specific technical assistance activities and training events; (g)
encourage replication of successful technical assistance and training activities wherever
possible; and, (h) based on supervision findings, measure and report on the progress of
technical assistance arrangements and their effectiveness.
12.   As part of their regular supervision efforts, PRORURAL and the Municipal
Councils would monitor the frequency and quality of technical assistance and training
provided to each subproject. SOEs presented by Municipal Councils and community
associations for technical assistance and training expenditures would be closely monitored
by PRORllRAL to ensure that resources are used exclusively for that purpose and in a
cost-effective manner. As further incentive for their effective use, loan funds allocated to
the Institutional Development component will not be permitted to be re-allocated to
finance community subprojects or any other expenditure under the project. To give
Municipal Councils greater incentive to promote and achieve successful technical
assistance arrangements in their respective municipalities, the provision of technical
assistance, both by the Councils and other providers, would be considered a parameter by



- 85 -                          Annex E
which to judge the overall performance of project Municipal Councils and would factor
into decision-making on the promotion of FUMAC Councils to FUMAC-P. Technical
assistance would also be monitored through the project's monitoring and reporting
arrangements (see Annex H). Information from the MIS would identify active technical
assistance contracts which will then be followed up during subproject supervision visits.
The mid-year and annual project progress reports, compiled by PRORURAL for the Bank,
would contain specific sections pertaining to the quantity, quality and effectiveness of
technical assistance provided. The project implementation review (Annex H) would also
evaluate the quality and cost-effectiveness of technical assistEmce and thus provide the
beneficiaries' assessment of technical assistance arrangements. The Bank's Recife Office
would evaluate the project's technical assistance arrangements during regular supervision
visits.



- 86 -                          Annex F
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
F. THE FUMAC-P PILOT PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
1.    Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under
the reformulated NRDP with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC
programs, will be further advanced in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will
expand significantly under the project. Second, a further step towards decentralization
will be taken through a pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of
financial management responsibilities to several FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.    Generally, municipalities which have participated in FUMAC to date tend to be
those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is more favorable, which
distinguishes them from more traditionally-run municipalities with a strong "cientelistic"
approach. This environment has been the result of a conjunction of cultural/political
factors, such as the emergence of a movement for the development of civil society (usually
induced by religious organizations, NGOs and more recently by some political parties) and
of a new generation of more open-minded political leaders.
3.    Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience under the
reformulated NRDP. First, it has proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for
identifying and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for
investments by needy communities. Second, it has provided the opportunity to experiment
not only with increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects,
from the State-level Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing
communities, but also with the management of community subproject funds by these very
Councils. This experience is reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC
and, in particular, FUMAC-P, where the feasibility of financial management at the
grassroots level will be tested.
FUMAC-P: MAIN FEATURES
4.    The FUMAC-P pilot would account, initially, for about US$4.0 million -- or 8% of
the total base cost of the project -- over the four-year implementation period. As it is
considered that, in order to motivate project Municipal Councils (both FUMAC and



- 87 -                          Annex F
FUMAC-P) and have them participate in the project in a sustainable manner, each Council
--and its communities-- should benefit from a minimum of 5 subprojects per year, the
initial amount allocated to this subcomponent would allow the installation of some 10
FUMAC-P Councils by the end of the project period. However, if this pilot approach
proves successful with the communities and meets its objectives of local-level investment
selection, execution and financial management, FUMAC-P would be expanded with funds
initially earmarked for the FUMAC and PAC subcomponents (see para. 10) and more
FUMAC-P Councils than initially foreseen could be set up during project implementation.
5.    Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities from among the best
FUMAC performers under the ongoing NRDP, i.e., those with the best record in
administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other municipalities
which have a favorable environment for participatory work (extensive community
organization, municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and are
interested and can commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included.
There should also be some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial
resources, for instance in communities or existing associations already managing small-
scale businesses (on an individual or group basis) and whose members could potentially
form part of FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. As the proposed project gets underway, and
the FUMAC-P approach proves successful, other well-perfornming FUMAC municipalities
could gradually be upgraded into FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.    Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on a
number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned. These criteria may include
several of the following:
(a)   ratio of rural to total population;
(b)   rate of indigence;
(c)   number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(d)   availability of public resources per capita;
(e)   number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small
discriminatory factor);
(f)   performance in the previous year; and
(g)   willingness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.    FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex D). They would be responsible for:
(a)   assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating
them into investment proposals;



- 88 -                          Annex F
(b)   screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet
eligibility criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;
(c)   monitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of
approved subprojects;
(d)   providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training
to beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of
project-financed investments;
(e)   managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary
associations with approved subprojects; and
(f)   preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and
approval by the PCU. The POA would contain a list of community
investment priorities, indicative targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the
indicative budget and the technical assistance required to implement the
proposed program. The PCU would review and approve the POA at the
end of the year preceding implementation.
8.    An agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with
respect to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state
counterpart funds) would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would
be withdrawn solely upon formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would
screen community subproject proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds
made available by the PCU. An agreement (convenio) between the Municipal Council and
the beneficiary association would be required.
9.    Regular supervision of the operations of the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would
be the responsibility of the PCU, focusing in particular on the administrative and financial
arrangements made by the Councils to effectively control and release project funds to the
community associations and on progress in the implementation of the POA agreed for
each FUMAC-P Council. Municipal Councils would be aided in their tasks, both for
management and accounting as well as subproject appraisal, monitoring and supervision,
by appropriate technical assistance under the guidance of the PCU. Unsatisfactory
performance of a Council would have to be carefully assessed by the latter, including the
weighing of penalties, if necessary. If unsatisfactory performance is not rapidly corrected,
it may lead to a reduction of the budget envelope allocated to it the next year (para. 6) or,
in the case of serious wrongdoing such as misappropriation or misuse of funds, to legal
remedies, combined with restructuring of the Council or even its expulsion from FUMAC-
P back to FUMAC. On the other hand, built-in incentives would encourage positive
performance. Positive performance, for example, would be rewarded with a potential
expansion in the budget envelope allocated each year.



- 89 -                          Annex F
10.   In addition, the project implementation review to be carried out at mid-term would
include a specific evaluation of the FUMAC-P program. The basic purpose of this
evaluation will be to assess performance under the pilot program and, if necessary, to
adjust its design and mechanisms in order to improve its procedures and ilmpact on
beneficiaries. If the pilot program is found successful and its expansion is justified, part of
the PAC and FUMAC funds under the project could be transferred to the FIUMAC-P
program.



- 90 -                           Annex G
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
G. STANDARD DESIGNS AND OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF SUBPROJECTS
STANDARD DESIGNS
1.    Experience under the NRDP has shown that the technical elaboration of
subprojects can be a difficult task for rural community associations. In some cases,
especially where competent technical assistance is not available locally, this has resulted in
inappropriate design, cost overruns and subprojects left incomplete or unoperational.
Under the proposed project, preparation of subprojects by associations, as well as
appraisal of the technical proposals by Municipal Councils and/or the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), will be facilitated with the adoption of standard designs developed by the
PCU for the most common types of subprojects found in Pernambuco. The use of
standard designs will ensure that, at least for those subprojects most in demand by
communities, project investments follow recommended technical specifications, both for
construction and operation and maintenance (O&M), meet reasonable cost parameters so
as to be financially viable, and comply with all necessary environmental requirements. At
the same time, the risk of "directing" community demand towards subprojects for which
standard designs will be made available would be reduced by the project's information
campaign which advises communities, inter alia, about the variety of subprojects that are
eligible for financing.
2.    Different standard designs (projetospadrao) or appropriate standard
documentation will be prepared for the various types of investments: productive,
infrastructure and social subprojects. The main items to be included in each of the
relevant documentation are indicated below.
3.    For productive subprojects:
(a)   a summary of the existing situation, including considerations on demand,
supply of raw materials, as well as markets;
(b)   a set of considerations and parameters to carry out simplified feasibility
studies, in particular: a presentation of subproject objectives and potential
benefits; the technical production process and type of equipment required;
technical parameters such as expected yields, coefficient of utilization,
range of output; range of costs of production, depreciation, maintenance



- 91 -                            Annex G
etc.; expected benefits and number of beneficiaries; indicative internal rates
of return, benefit/cost ratios, and other such indicators;
(c)   technical aspects, including a description of civil works, technical
specifications, bill of quantities, and the list of suppliers of equipment
required to operate the subproject;
(d)    guidelines for O&M; and
(e)    environmental considerations and recommendations for specific measures
to mitigate the negative impact, if any, of the proposed subproject.
In addition, a set of operating rules (regulamento de uso) will accompany the
documentation for each of the proposed productive subprojects.
4.    For social subprojects:
(a)    a methodology for establishing the profile of social demand in order to
properly tailor the size of the required facility;
(b)    design considerations, e.g., services to be delivered by the proposed
subproject, and technical, legal and administrative aspects;
(c)   technical aspects as for productive subprojects;
(d)    O&M features, including an evaluation of the delivery cost:s of the
proposed social service; and
(e)    environmental considerations where relevant.
5.    For infrastructure subprojects, whose size can vary widely depending on the local
context, intended number of beneficiaries and other factors, the concept of standard design
as such is not totally adequate. However, it is possible to develop:
(a)    generic terms of reference for engineering of different types of subprojects,
e.g., water supply systems, road rehabilitation, etc.; and
(b)    "typical" engineering (projetos tipicos) of small works such as pipes and
box culverts, retaining walls and typical decks for small bridges.
6.    Standard designs will be available for those types of subprojects that most respond
to the needs and demand of communities. By project effectiveness, a first group of
standard designs will have been prepared by the PCU, and listed in the project Operational
Manual, for the following types of subprojects: manioc mills, agricultural machinery
(communal tractors, etc.), small-scale irrigation, sheep/goat raising, animal traction farm
machinery, health-related house improvement, water supply systems, communal washing
facilities, earth-made fords and electrification. A second group of standard subproject



-92 -                            Annex G
designs for other types of subprojects that are requested by at least 10 different
communities, will be elaborated by the end of the first year of project implementation.
7.    Careful field supervision and monitoring of standard subprojects by the PCU will
be necessary in order to: (i) avoid mistakes to be replicated on a large scale, and (ii) fine-
tune and adjust the standard designs that have been developed. The need for the different
participating states to share experience on standard designs of subprojects has also been
identified. In particular, those that have been prepared by the first three states (Bahia,
Ceara and Sergipe) could be shared by Pernambuco and others. Workshops should be
arranged in which standard subproject documentation developed by the different states
would be used for discussions to compare and evaluate the different solutions that have
been found to the same problem.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
8.    Although the reformulated NRDP has financed many of the same types of
community investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that
have been supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its
innovative features has been to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained
by the beneficiaries themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the
prospects for sustainability of the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature
will be maintained and strengthened.
9.    Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements
(convenios) with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for
O&M would vary according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries
would be fully responsible for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects
and some social subprojects, such as day care centers or home improvements for health
purposes (e.g., for control of Chagas disease). In the case of schools or health posts
rehabilitated under the project, and most infrastructure subprojects, the responsibility for
O&M would normally be shared between the communities and the relevant State or
municipal institution. In exceptional cases of relatively complex subprojects, beneficiary
associations might contract private firms or NGOs to assist them in O&M tasks.
10.   Based on experience under the reformulated NRDP, several types of arrangements
would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project investments,
as follows:
11.   Productive Subprojects (e.g., manioc and rice mills, clothes making, small-scale
irrigation schemes, and farm machinery). Once a subproject has been approved for
financing, the beneficiary association elects a committee to be in charge of subproject
implementation and management. This commnittee has the task, among others, of
determining the different dues and user fees to be charged to association members (as well



-93 -                            Annex G
as to non-association members using project facilities), based on estimated requirements
for O&M and capital replacement or eventual expansion. User fees have to be approved
by all association members, and may be paid in cash, labor or kind, depending on the
particular situation. The committee is responsible for collecting the fees, placing them in a
"reserve fund", managing the reserve fund to meet extraordinary maintenance and capital
replacement requirements, and making payments for recurrent expenditures such as
electricity consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs, and employees' salaries.
12.   Social Subprojects (e.g., day care centers, housing improvement, school or health
post rehabilitation). The degree of community involvement in the O&M of social
subprojects depends on the type of investment. In the cas,e of subprojects related to public
services, such as health posts or schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity
could undertake O&M following an agreement with the community. For other types of
subprojects such as day care centers or house improvement, the community will be
responsible for O&M, each of the community members contributing either financially or in
the form of labor.
13.   Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs). Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure
subprojects. In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual
households, beneficiaries could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or
municipal utility company, which then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user
fees. Simplified water supply systems (without connection to households) will be
operated and maintained by the community itself, which makes arrangements for collection
of dues or fees from individual community members to pay for O&M expenses. These
arrangements are commonly found in the rural water supply subprojects financed under
the reformulated NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as roads, bridges, and street
paving, which serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would normally be shared
with the municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



- 94 -                    Annex H
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
H. PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND
EVALUATION
PROJECT MONITORING
1.    The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental in
following the progression of the investment program financed by the proposed
Pernambuco Rural Poverty Alleviation Project and ascertaining its consistency with
project objectives. Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of
decision-making and management, and is driven by demand from rural community
associations which is filtered through a selection process based on established criteria.
This process involves a large number of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive
geographic area. Hence, since the ex ante determination of the pattern of project
investment and other key parameters is not possible, effective supervision depends on the
existence of a capable monitoring system.
2.    The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)   provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of
the subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval,
procurement, implementation and disbursement); and
(b)   verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational
Manual.
Project Database
3.    The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information
System (MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP' and to be improved under the
Under the reformulated NRDP, this system was referred to as the SSMP, or Simplified Project
Monitoring System.



- 95 -                   Annex H
project. The project MIS is a data base organized in three general levels: (a) a subproject
information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all project
reports are generated. Under the proposed project, the MIS will operate as a network to
facilitate the inputting of information and provide access to up-to-the-minute information
by all levels of project management, tailored to individual needs.
4.    For the State of Pernambuco, PRORURAL (the Project Coordinating Unit or
PCU) and would be responsible for operating and maintaining the MIS and for providing
the input corresponding to PAC subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be
responsible for completing the data sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and,
upon completion of each data sheet, would present them to PRORURAL which would
subsequently update the MIS.
5.    The subproject module is the basic module into which all information collected
from the subprojects is entered and processed. Subproject information feeds into both the
financial management module and the project management module. Subprojects are
identified and entered in the MIS according to the followinrg format. Information for the
MIS is inputted from data sheets for each subproject, separated into four submodules
w.hich correspond to key steps of the subproject cycle:
(a)   Submodule No. 1 would include information for the subproject regarding
its location and identification, according to the following format: (a) by
program [PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P]; (b) by type [Infrastructure,
Productive and Social subprojects]; (c) by category [e.g., water supply,
agro-processing, energy, etc.]; (d) by sub-category, in particular for water
supply subprojects [e.g., dams, wells, tanks. etc.]; and, (e) by location
[municipality, community and beneficiary association];
(b)   Submodule No. 2 would include the technical, social and financial
characteristics, as well as a set of indicators such as cost/capita, cost/m2,
and other parameters to the subproject budget;
(c)   Submodule No. 3 would include information on subproject implementation,
including procurement procedures and contracting, all disbursement data,
including beneficiary and municipal government contributions to
counterpart funding, and provision of technical assistance and training to
the community association in question; and
(d)   Submodule No. 4 would include subproject completion information,
including beneficiary numbers and relevant subproject impacts (e.g.,
production figures, income generated, etc.).



-96 -                     Annex H
6.    The information input into the MIS would come from standard data sheets of three
types: (i) subproject data sheet; (ii) supervision data sheet; and (iii) graduation data sheet.
The subproject data sheet, completed by PRORURAL (for PAC) and the Municipal
Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P) would supply the basic information on the
subproject stemming from the subproject proposal. The supervision data sheet would
verify and/or update information on the subproject data sheet, identify any implementation
problems and possible mitigating measures, and report relevant subproject impacts. The
supervision data sheets would be completed by PRORURAL and Municipal Councils, or
by those entities subcontracted to provide supervision services, in which case the
supervision data sheets would be included in the TORs. Finally, the graduation data
sheets would include information on the community itself, including existing infrastructure
and other indicators of community well-being (see Annex C), to be filled out by the
beneficiary community associations as part of their subproject proposals, and verified
and/or updated by PRORURAL, Municipal Councils, or subcontracted participating
agencies.
7.    Given the 1,660 subprojects estimated to be financed during the four years of
project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for following the course of project
investment. Information from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with,
and subsequent effectiveness of, the project's targeting mechanisms. By monitoring the
direction of project benefits and types of subprojects being financed, PRORURAL and the
Municipal Councils can direct appropriate technical assistance and training based on the
frequency of certain types of investment or target community mobilization activities. Cases
of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds -- resources channeled outside the project
area or for ineligible investments -- will be verified using the MIS in order for appropriate
remedies to be applied.
Monitoring Activities
8.    Within the framework of the project monitoring system, PRORURAL and the
project Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for
supervising the application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the
development and implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS,
combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project-contracted
studies and audits, PRORURAL and the Municipal Councils would monitor project
characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and
undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project implementation (see Annex J
on Project Supervision). The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual
Operating Plans (POAs), regulate their implementation, and make necessary adjustments
to the POAs and corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The
delineation of monitoring responsibilities between PRORURAL and the Municipal
Councils would be clearly reflected in the Project Operational Manual.



- 97 -                   Annex H
PROJECT REPORTING
9.    PRORUTRAL is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four
types of reports would be generated by PRORURAL and presented to the Bank:
(a)   a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided
on a monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information
from the MIS will facilitate Bank supervisiorn efforts and monitoring of the
investment program;
(b)   an MIS-generated report which would includle the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their
physical, procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the
Bank's Field Office in Recife at the same time that the statements of
expenditure (SOEs) are sent to Bank Headquarters. The USPI and
subproject list will permit the Recife Office to review the eligibility of
subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c)   a Mid-year Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with
the Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project
implementation; and,
(d)   an Annual Report, would be presented by January 31 of each year of
project implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard
formats from the mid-year report but would also include a comprehensive
review of (i) the status of the project performance indicators and the
specific activities of the institutional development component; (ii)
subproject appraisal indicators, the status of the targeting of project
benefits, the application of subproject investment eligibility criteria, and
other implementation guidelines included in the Operation Manual; and (iii)
other relevant analyses and recommendations from project-contracted
studies and audits which may be applied to improve project
implementation.



- 98 -                   Annex H
PROJECT EVALUATION STUDIES
10.   The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve
project methodology and implementation. PRORURAL would be responsible for drafting
Terms of Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational Manual,
and contracting local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the
Bank, for the following studies: (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a mid-term
implementation review; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are
described below. In addition, the project would finance a study to determine the point of
community graduation and details on this study are included in Annex C. During the
course of project implementation, PRORURAL may also identify other needed evaluation
studies which can be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
Annual Physical Performance Reviews
11.   The objective of the Physical Performance Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success
of investments financed by the project, in terms of their achievement of specific subproject
objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the investments. For each
subproject included in the sample, the study would focus on the following points: (a) the
adequacy of the physical design in relation to the subproject's objective; (b) the quality and
cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency of procurement procedures used; and (e)
the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would provide indication of the effectiveness of
community-based procurement; compliance with and/or needed adjustments to cost
indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators and to the Standard Designs
included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project investments and the profile
of distribution of project benefits. The PPR will also be an important input to the project's
implementation review and to project Annual Reports.
12.   The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted at the end of 1997
for a sample of subprojects representative of the prior year's investment program (PAC,
FUMAC, and FUMAC-P). To conduct the PPR, PRORURAL would: (i) establish, with
Bank agreement, the sample of subprojects to be reviewed; (ii) supply counterparts to the
independent consultants contracted by PRORURAL to implement the study; (iii)
participate in the diagnosis and generation of appropriate recommendations; and (iv)
incorporate the recommendations into the implementation of the project. Subsequent
PPRs would be conducted each year and would review physical performance issues
identified during the first PPR and monitor improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs
would be agreed with the Bank by no later than July 31 of each corresponding year.



- 99 -                   Annex H
13.   In addition, the first PPR will include a module to measure the quality and
efficiency of community procurement (direct contracting) of goods and works. Similar to
an audit, this module of the PPR would analyze the contracting procedures used and the
accompanying documentation for a sample of subprojects. The issues to be examined
would include: (a) the transparency of the contracting process; (b) if the goods/works
were procured at the lowest cost for the quality required and how these costs compare
with the unit cost references in the MIS; (c) in the case of technical assistance, if the
service providers contracted satisfied the profile and experience indicated in the TORs;
and (d) if the documentation maintained by the community association is sufficient to
complete Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and to satisfy an audit.
Implementation Review
14.   Project performance would be measured through an in implementation review at
the mid-term of project implementation. The purpose of the implementation review is to
assist the State Government of Pernambuco, PRORURAL and the Bank, in the
identification of positive experiences and implementation problems and bottlenecks,
particularly in FUMAC and FUMAC-P, in order to recomniend needed modifications to
their methodology and design. Importantly, since the FUMAC-P program is a pilot, this
mid-term review would determine its feasibility and recommend its expansion.
15.   The mid-term review would be carried out through beneficiary consultations--
interviews and group discussions. These consultations would determine, inter alia: (i)
how the project is perceived and valued by the actual beneficiaries; (ii) level of community
participation -- and any outside involvement (e.g. NGOs, EMATER, etc.) -- in the
different stages of the subproject cycle, including in the process of prioritizing local
demands; (iii) effectiveness of the subprojects in alleviating poverty and its consequences;
(iv) the access to and quality of technical assistance for the preparation, implementation
and O&M of subprojects; (iv) the role of the Municipal Cotncils, how these Councils are
perceived in the communities, and how decisions on prioritization are effectively made;
(vi) the role of Mayors in decision-making and in actual project implementation; (vii) the
operation and maintenance of subprojects; and (v) how the role and performance of
PRORURAL is viewed in the communities (for PAC). Additional questions would
evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different subcomponents (PAC, FUMAC and
FUMAC-P), the effectiveness of institutional development activities, the level of
community participation, and the ability of the project to target and reach the poor.
Overall, the beneficiary consultations would generate a reliable evaluation of project
performance and impact as seen through the eyes of the ultimate beneficiaries which
would serve, as a convincing input to improve project implementation.
16.   The implementation review would be carried out at the end of the second year of
project implementation with a sample of community associations drawn from FUMAC and
FUMAC-P municipalities, with a small residual sample dravm from PAC municipalities,



- 100 -                   Annex H
and a sample of Municipal Councils. The implementation review would be carried out by
independent consultants -- preferably a local organization with field experience -- under
TORs and contracting procedures agreed with the Bank. Inputs to the review process
would include: the mid-year and annual reports, MIS-generated analyses and reports,
results of the PPRs, recommendations from project audit reports, and additional reviews
or studies contracted by PRORURAL.
Project Impact Evaluation
17.   The project would also finance a baseline (year 1) and final (year 4) evaluation to
measure the socio-economic impact of the subproject investments. This comprehensive
evaluation, based on a random sample survey of representative subproject types, would
select important socio-economic indicators, such as employment, income, health,
education, and migration, and measure the impact of subproject investments on these
indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the quality of life of the
beneficiary population, differentiating by gender where possible. The evaluation would
also relate impact back to specific aspects of the project in order to identify those
conditions or activities which have resulted in positive impacts.
18.   The evaluation study would also measure the effects of the project on the financial
situation at the municipal and state levels, due to the positive impacts on project
beneficiaries (communities and families). For example, the financing of subprojects for
community water supply implies savings for municipal governments, and even State and
Federal Governments, in drought periods by preempting the need of these governments to
finance temporary water provision to rural communities through carro pipa, typically a
signficant expenditure for municipal governments of the Northeast and one which is not
made to the extent needed due to limited resources. The project would also generate
benefits in terms of improved health or, in general terms, in improved quality of life for
beneficiaries, which would result in savings for the State or municipal governments in
medical services, medicines, etc., furnished to rural communities. In addition, the project
produces products over which the State and municipal governments can collect taxes
(such as the ICMS tax on marketed production). These products can include not only
products generated by productive subprojects but also consumer goods (e.g. refrigerators,
radios, etc.) purchased by families benefitting from rural electrification subprojects.
Therefore, the study would evaluate the aggregate impact of the project at the State and
municipal levels, measuring: (a) the savings permitted by the project, in terms of
expenditures for water supplied by carro pipa and provision of medical services, etc., that
no longer have to be made due to the project, and (b) the taxes generated by various types
of subprojects financed.
19.   As in the mid-term implementation review, the study would concentrate on
FUMAC and FUMAC-P municipalities, where the majority of project investments would
be located, and include a small sample of PAC municipalities, consistent with the project's



- 101 -                   Annex H
investment profile. The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline
evaluation in the first year of project implementation, and assessed in the final evaluation
at the conclusion of implementation. The impact evaluation would be carried out by
independent consultants and contracted under TORs and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
20.   The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the four-year implementation period were agreed upon during appraisal.
Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators will be
mostly indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year of
the project, but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in
terms of the proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or
productive) would represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



- 102 -                    Annex H
Project Performance Indicators
Project Inputs            Project Results           Project Impact
Counterpart funding, by   # of financed subprojects,   Improved standards of living
type (state, municipal,   per category (PAC,         (measurements in increased
beneficiary)              FUMAC, FUMAC-P), per  income and access to public
type (infrastructure,     services and/or
productive, social)       infrastructure; etc.)
Loan funds disbursed      # of beneficiary families;    Increased Community
women beneficiaries;      Participation
communities; municipalities
Technical assistance funds   # of technical assistance and
disbursed (institutional  training events
development component)
FUMAC-P POAs approved  # of Municipal Councils
functioning satisfactorily
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P)
Information Campaigns     Sustainability of subprojects
(financial and
organizational)
Supervision visits



- 103 -                                            Annex H
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Implementation Plan2
PYO   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4
Project Components and         Responsible        Unit                                           Total
Activities              Institution
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects Implemented          Benef. Assoc.       No.                430    430    430    370    1660
- Infrastructure                                    No.               200    200    200    170       770
- Social                                            No.                80      80     80      70     310
- Productive                                        No.               150    150    150    130       580
Beneficiaries3                   PCU, Councils
- Total                                           Families             29      29     29      23      110
('000)
- Total                                           People              145    145    145    115        550
('000)
- women as % of productive                           %                 30      30     30      30       30
subproject beneficiaries
Community Associations           PCU, Councils   No. (cum.)             215    430    645    830       830
benefited4
Municipalities benefited             PCU              No.               152    132    108       77     152
2
Because of the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these targets are indicative and will be re-assessed during the implementation review.
3   Estimated on the basis of an average of 66 families per subproject.
4 Based on experience of NRDP-Pernambuco with average of 2 subprojects per beneficiary association.



- 104 -                                              Annex H
PYO  PY1  PY2  PY3  PY4
Project Components and          Responsible         Unit                                             Total
Activities               Institution
Municipal Councils created
- FUMAC                              PCU             No.                  40      50     60      60       60
- FUMAC-P                            PCU             No.                   2       7      10     10       10
B. Institutional Development
Preperation of annual program of   PCU, Councils
technical assistance and training
(i) PCU                                               No.                  1       1       1       1        1
(ii) Municipal Councils                               No.                 42      57     70      70       70
Community Mobilization'           PCU, Councils
- Beneficiaries                                      No.                1075   1075   1075    925    4150
- Local Leaders (for formation                        No.                420     150    130       --     700
of Municipal Councils)                            Participants
Training courses offered to:6
- Beneficiary associations                            No.                 60      60     60      60      240
- All Municipal Councils                              No.                 80      60     70      10      220
- FUMAC-P Municipal                                   No.                  4      12      13      2       31
Councils
- PCU staff                                          No.                  10       8       6      2       26
5   For beneficiaries, estimated one mobilization activity with five representatives per association. For formation of Councils, estimated 10 local leaders per
new Council formed.
6   For associations, 3 courses in project management and 3 in specialized skills per year for groups of 10 associations in Regional Offices. For new
Councils, 2 courses in the first year (introductory and specialized) and two refresher courses thereafter. In year 4, 1 course in each Regional Office.



-105 -                                           Annex H
PYO    PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4
Project Components and        Responsible       Unit                                          Total
Activities             Institution
Workshops offered to:7
- Beneficiary associations                        No.                 3      4      3       2      12
- All Municipal Councils                          No.                 4       5     4       3      16
- FUMAC-P Municipal                               No.                 1       1      1      1       4
Councils
Technical Assistance provided
- for Implementation          PCU, Councils   Subprojects           430    430   430    370    1660
(technology transfer)                           Attended
- to Municipal Councils           PCU          Councils             42      57    70      70      70
C. Project Administration. Supervision. Monitoring
and Evaluation
Supervision8
- Subprojects                   PCU, Councils   No. Visits           860    860   860    740    3320
- Municipal Councils                PCU          No. Visits            84    114   140    140       478
- Completed subprojects             PCU                                 x      x      x      x
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)
- Preparation of POA for        FUMAC-P           No.                 2       7     10     10      29
FUMAC-P                          Councils
- Consolidation and               PCU             No.                 1       1      1      1       4
Preparation of Project POA
7  Beneficiary interchanges - one annual workshop per Regional Office. Municipal Council interchanges - one annual workshop per group of Councils.
s  2 visits per subproject under implementation. 2 annual visits per Municipal Council. For productive and water supply projects, one annual visit per
completed subproject.



- 106 -                                       Annex H
PYO   PY1   PY2   PY3  PY4
Project Components and      Responsible       Unit                                       Total
Activities            Institution
Standard Designs
- Preparation                   PCU            No.         9      3
- Review and Updating           PCU                               x      x      x      x
Special Account (establishment)   PCU                               x
Publicity Campaign                PCU
- Presentation to Bank                                     x
- Campaign Launched                                               x      x      x
Operational Manual                PCU
- Preparation                                              x
- Review and Adjustments                                          x      x      x      x
(with Bank approval)
Monitoring Reports
- Monthly Disbursement          PCU            No.               12    12    12    12         48
Summaries and MIS update
- Annual, Semi-annual Reports   PCU            No.                2      2      2      2       8
- External Audits               PCU            No.                1      1      1      1       4
Evaluation Studies
- Physical Performance           PCU           No.                1       1     1      1       4
Reviews
- Impact Evaluation             PCU            No.
(i) Baseline                                              1                                   1
(ii) Final                                                                            1       1
- Implementation Review         PCU                                      1
(mid-term)
- Graduation Study                PCU            No.                       1                    1



-107 -                                                Annex I
Table 1.1
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                           Totals Including Contingencies
1997     1998      1999      2000     Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                         5.5      6.8       8.5       8.5     29.3
2. FUMAC-P                                       0.3       1.0      1.4       1.3       4.0
3. PAC                                           6.2      4.2       2.1       0.4      12.9
Subtotal                                           12.0      12.0      12.0     10.2      46.2
B. Institutional Development                        0.8       0.8      0.5       0.5       2.6
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring  0.6       0.6      0.7       0.7       2.6
and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                13.4      13.4      13.2     11.4      51.4
Physical Contingencies                           0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.4
Price Contingencies                              o.oa/     0.1      0.02/     0.1       0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 13.5      13.6      13.3     11.6      52.0
a/ Less than US$100,000.



-108 -                               Annex I
Table 1.2
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                           Amounts to be Financed by
State
Total             Government/
Cost   IBRD   Municipalities  Beneficiaries-
A. Conmmunity Subprojects
1. FUMAC                            29.3    22.0          4.4             2.9
2. FUMAC-P                           4.0      3.0         0.6             0.4
3. PAC                              12.9      9.7         1.9             1.3
............................................................ .........I...........................................................
Subtotal                            46.2    34.7          6.9             4.6
B. Institutional Development             2.6      2.6        0.0              0.0
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration,               2.6      1.4        1.2             0.0
Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                     51.4    38.7         8.1             4.6
Physical Contingencies               0.4      0.2         0.2             0.0
Price Contingencies                  0.2      0.1         0.1             0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTb'                    52.0    39.0         8.4             4.6
a/     Minimum contribution.
_/     Including about US$1.7 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 109 -                            Annex I
Table 1.3
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                 Item and % of Expenditures                 Total Amount
(US$ Million)
I.     Community Subprojects
(75% of expenditures)
A. FUMAC                                                    22.0
B. FUMAC-P                                                   3.0
C. PAC                                                       97
II.    Institutional Development, including Technical                3.1
Assistance and Training and Evaluation Studies
(100% of expenditures)
III.    Proiect Administration and Monitoring System                  0.2
(20% of expenditures)
IV.     Project Supervision                                          0.7
(50% of expenditures)
IV.     Unallocated                                                  0.3
TOTAL                                                          39.0



- 110 -                           Annex I
Table 1.4
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank       Quarter      Disbursement          Cumulative           Balance
Fiscal      Ending         During            Disbursement             of
Year                      Quarter                                   Loan
Amount    % of Total
1997    Dec. 31, 1996        ---           ---          ---          39.0
March 31, 1997       3.5a'          3.5          9.0         35.5
June 30, 1997        2.2            5.7         14.6         33.3
1998    Sept. 30, 1997       2.2            7.9          20.3        31.1
Dec. 31, 1997        2.2           10.1         25.9         28.9
March 31, 1998       2.5           12.6         32.3         26.4
June 30, 1998        2.5           15.1         38.7         23.9
1999    Sept. 30, 1998       2.6           17.7          45.4        21.3
Dec. 31, 1998        2.6           20.3         52.1         18.7
March 31, 1999       2.5           22.8         58.5         16.2
June 30, 1999        2.5           25.3         64.9         13.7
2000    Sept. 30, 1999        2.5           27.8         71.3         11.2
Dec. 31, 1999        2.5           30.3         77.7          8.7
March 31, 2000       2.2           32.5         83.3          6.5
June 30, 2000        2.2           34.7         89.0          4.3
2001    Sept. 30, 2000        2.2           36.9         94.6         2.1
Dec. 31, 2000        2.1           39.0        100.0         0.0
a/ Including the authorized allocation of US$3.5 million into the Special Account.



-111-                            Annex J
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
J. PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.    The principal role of project supervision is to ensure that project implementation
follows the guidelines set forth in the Loan Agreement and detailed in the Operational
Manual. At the operational level, project supervision arrangements are designed to
provide essential information on the general performance of the project and the feedback
necessary for managerial decision-making. Information collected regularly from the field
during project implementation will provide PRORURAL (the Project Coordinating Unit
or PCU) with the tools necessary to: (a) identify and correct departures from project
guidelines; (b) reinforce targeting mechanisms; (c) modify technical assistance strategies;
and (d) identify training needs.
2.    Supervision Responsibilities. In line with the decentralized implementation of
the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the state and local levels will
correspond to PRORURAL and the project Municipal Councils, respectively:
(a)   at the state level: PRORURAL will monito:r global trends across all project
municipalities, oversee the functioning and activities of project Municipal
Councils, and supervise the portfolio of subprojects under the PAC
subprogram; and
(b)   at the local level: the project Municipal Councils will monitor the
performance of the subproject portfolio under the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subprograms.
3.    At the state level, PRORURAL's responsibilities include: (i) monitor the quality
of global project implementation and administration; (ii) assess community participation in
the identification, preparation and execution of PAC subprojects, as well as the quality of
technical assistance provided to beneficiary communities in, PAC; (iii) collect and verify
pertinent information on the project and subprojects for the MIS; and (iv) review the
activities of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils.
4.    Supervision of the proiect Municipal Councils by PRORURAL will focus on the
following points: (i) the composition of the Councils to ensure they meet the required
80% beneficiary representation; (ii) the frequency and openmess of the Councils' meetings;
(iii) the criteria applied to screen, prioritize and approve subproject proposals and the
effectiveness of targeting of project benefits to the poorest communities; and (iv) the
capacity of the Councils to provide technical assistance to the beneficiary communities.
In addition to these points, supervision of the FUMAC-P Councils will focus on whether



-112 -                           Annex J
the administrative and financial arrangements made by these Councils are effective in
managing and releasing subproject funds to the community associations as well as
progress in the implementation of POAs agreed for each FUMAC-P Council.
5.    At the local level, the Municipal Councils, with support from PRORURAL, will
carry out the following supervision tasks in their respective municipalities: (i) verification
of the status and quality of subproject implementation; (ii) assessment of community
participation in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (iii) evaluation
of the extent to which communities are organized to effectively undertake the operation
and maintenance of the investments, following, in the case of productive subprojects, the
appropriate regulamentos de uso; (iv) identification of technical assistance and training
needs; and (v) assessment of effectiveness of targeting of project benefits and
identification of potential beneficiary communities not yet participating in the project. In
addition to these tasks, FUMAC-P Councils will follow-up on compliance by beneficiary
associations with subproject agreements signed with them.
6.    To fulfill their supervision responsibilities, given the number of subprojects in the
field and the amount of information to collect, both PRORURAL and the project
Municipal Councils may delegate some supervision tasks to selected NGOs and
participating public agencies (e.g., EMATER), according to specific terms of reference
developed for this purpose. This assistance would be especially useful for evaluating the
status of community organization and mobilization. In addition, to facilitate the
supervision of individual subprojects under implementation, PRORURAL and the
Municipal Councils would liaise with the Subproject Supervision and Control Committees
(Annex D) --community members designated to supervise each subproject and control the
status and quality of subproject implementation. Whether carried out by PRORURAL,
Municipal Councils or a partner organization, subprojects would receive two supervision
visits in their first year of implementation and, in the case of productive subprojects and
water supply subprojects, at least one visit per year thereafter.
7.    Supervision Reporting. Information collected during supervision, including
indicators of subproject implementation performance and the identification of the principal
bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the subproject standard data sheets (see
Annex H) and included in the MIS, maintained by PRORURAL. To aid the overall
information collection process between the state and local levels, the project Municipal
Councils will report regularly to PRORURAL on the implementation of the subprojects in
their respective municipalities. The contents and frequency of these reports would be
determined by PRORURAL and included in the Operational Manual. Based on the
project and subproject information collected at the state and local levels, PRORURAL will
prepare and submit to the Bank mid-year and annual reports on the overall physical and
financial status of project implementation and performance. In addition, PRORURAL will
present the Annual Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent
fiscal year of implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.



- 113 -                           Annex J
8.    World Bank Supervision. In keeping with the decentralized implementation of
the project, and based on the experience under the reformulated NRDP, the Bank will
continue its decentralized supervision of the project. The Bank will carry out at least two
regular supervision missions per year from its field office in Recife. Regular supervision
will entail: (i) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by PRORURAL
and/or Municipal Councils; (ii) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects;
and (iii) a review of the performance of all project components, and particularly an
assessment of the FUMAC-P pilot subprogram, to address problems and make appropriate
recommendations. In addition, based on frequent communication with PRORURAL, the
Recife Office will conduct short supervision missions to address problems which require
prompt action. Also, in view of the diversity of community subprojects, consultants of
different expertise would be contracted to provide occasional input and advice to Bank
missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued annua:lly, as well as Back-to-Office
reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated that about 28 staff-weeks will
be required for project supervision, or about 7 staff-weeks annually during the four years
of project implementation.
9.    The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)   by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of mid-year and
annual reports from PRORURAL to the BarLk;
(b)   by February and September of each year, full Bank supervision missions
completed; and
(c)   by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent
year to the Bank for review and comment by November 15.



- 114 -                       Annex K
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
K. PROJECT OPERATIONAL MANUAL (OUTLINE)
The Operational Manual would have the following table of contents:
I.    Introductory Remarks and Organization of Manual
II.    The Project
a.    Objectives
b.    Project Description
L.    Community Subprojects (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC)
ii.   Institutional Development Component
iii.   Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
C.    Strategy and Targets
d.    Project Area
e.    Poverty targeting mechanisms
f     Eligibility criteria for subprojects
g.    Cost-sharing matrix
h.    Institutional framework for project implementation
i.    State Government
ii.    Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
iii.   Municipal Councils
iv.    Community Associations
V.    Municipal Government
vi.    Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
i.    Flow of funds
III.   Operational Guidelines
a.    Publicity Campaign
b.    The Subproject Cycle: Identification; Preparation; Standard Subprojects;
Submittal; Evaluation; Legal Agreements (Convenios); Execution;
Conclusion; Operation and Maintenance
c.    Environmental Assessment
d.    Procurement
e.    Technical Assistance and Training
e.    Supervision
f     Operational Incentives and Penalties
g.    Statements of Expenditure



-115 -                       Annex K
TV.   Project Management and Monitoring
a.    Management Tasks of the PCU
b.    Financial Management
c.    Monitoring
d.    Supervision
e.    Auditing
f     Evaluation Studies
Annexes:
A.  Project Municipalities by Subprogram (FUMAC, FU\IAC-P and PAC)
B.  Negative List of Subprojects
C.  Standard Subproject Designs
D.  Unit Cost Tables
E.  Environmental Assessment Checklist
F.   Standard Forms (for proposal submittal and for ata de recebimento)
G.  Operational Manual for FUMAC
H.  Operational Manual for FUMAC-P
I.   Model Law for Creation of FUMAC and FUMAC-P MvIunicipal Councils
J.   Annual Operating Plan (POA) for FUMAC-P
K.  Model Contracts (for PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects)
L.  Guidelines for Community Associations
M.  Guidelines for Subproject Supervision and Control Committees
N.  Terms of Reference for Contracting Technical Assistance
0.  PCU Organizational Chart
P.  Technical Assistance and Training
Q.  Supervision
R.  Graduation of Communities
S.  Management Information System (MIS) and Reporting
T.  Standard Data Sheets for MIS (Subproject, Supervision and Graduation)
U.  Standard Contract for Procurement of Goods and Works
V.  Guidelines for SOEs
W.  Guidelines for Financial Management
X.  Terms of Reference for Evaluation Studies
Y.  Terms of Reference for Auditing



- 116-                           Annex L
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
PERNAMBUCO
L. LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1     Boletim Conjuntural--Nordeste do Brasil: July 1995, Superintendencia do
Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), Volume 3, July 1995.
2.    Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos As
Caracteristicas da Popula,io e dos Domicilios--Pernambuco, Numero 14,
IBGE, 1991.
3.    Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos As
Caracteristicas da Populacao e dos Domicilios--Brasil, Niumero 1, IBGE, 1991.
4     0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
5     Municipios Brasileiros--Criancas e suas Condicoes de Sobrevivencia,
UNICEF/IBGE, 1994.
6.    Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentivel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
7.    A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP-PAPP), Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994 (Draft).
8.    1994 Follow-up Study -- Northeast Rural Development Program/PAC-
FUMAC, Conrad Kottak and Alberto Costa, December 2, 1995.
9.    Forma,cio Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor Publico - Nordeste do Brasil, 1960-
93, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1995.
10.   Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, World Bank, Human Resources Operations
Division, Report No. 14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
11.   Projeto de Combate A Pobreza Rural em Pernambuco, Carta-Consulta A
Comissao de Financiamentos Externos (COFIEX), PRORURAL, Secretaria de
Planejamento, Governo do Estado de Pernambuco, August 1995.



IBRD 28070
S TATE BOUNDSAR E S
GIENZNA              NORTHEAST                                                                                                                 BRAZIL
VENEZUELA     ~~SURINAME         REGIONBOUNSOaIES                                                                                         P V R YD fIC
- - - INTERNATONAE                                                                                  RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJEC I
T S %~  ! '    f > -FRENCH                                                                                                                          PERNAMBUCO
_   -                   -      GUIANA
0.)/                           ytt                                                                                                                      .   X AREA EXCLUDED FROM THE FRODETRE
ISOHYETS ItN MM
.    B  R  A    Z    I L  X              z:>    <N,
BR                                                                                                               CE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMATC ZONES
t _   !   )  AREA  /                                                                                                       SEMI ARID
PERU                                                                                                                                                                L ._     OF MA  RANST ONALZONE
RASILIA                                                                                                                              AGRESTE
S                                                                                                 5TR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jp ~~~~~~~~~~~~COA5TTi FOREST
B BOLIVIA                                                                                                                                                     ONA NA FMATA
2EM   '        , z \f                               2L                                                                                                           MA N ROADS
CHILE i Y%                                                                                                                                              0    SELECTED CITIES
'1%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                               P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EG GNAT OFF CEO
i  ARGENTINA  ./                                                                                                                                 i   STATE CATITAL                                                              rbeL ,ndss:es *F deO&9^ohrDe dt otTh oSA A
; -  STATE BONDAR ES
URUGUAY\
fl:00'             40 30'             4f'00'               S9E30               39 D0                                  It Of               37 30       -       37T00                                  t IC                3530               35'00
Xr  w. L, _   _  ._   r\                                                    A  A C    E  A    R  A  , 4.ecePAeIB                                          Timtoeote                7
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oeit)                                      .     <Aor pn CO EtO                                                       A ,//fo1 do                           Eio _,                                   .                 zeodpsn-bLoM  .teme7 30
.6                                                                                                                                              M-P.                                     7 30~~~~~~7'  Ctnlb 
j    ~~\  /0 IpuL;   /   Morel6ndi: r               .1:                                    .     /.0d  eretem                                     -                    S~~      Litosl Fo rp cg   Al         IIOc)oL7 t
I L                                                                                                                                                      Ali-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.JO ARd  eiEAk  oTm
T,m .          G-it. ~~~~~~SoR                   oMpet
P I A U                          i                                                              \ e Trindo</R 6  \  { S0O L]|*                                                                                                                                sf+ +'  f   leu:r/a,{ I   -   0  *  @  J  ltomoroc6
,C\1                                                           4                                                    Ja. - \ieeIto eo AIte0o  eo  t   do
J S         :      nl:                                            C O Ter Novo  k/.w                    Pm                 Sb AnIo    \     | .t /   ) _ r_  5"<groS0.   C YLGr:deh. -   / Gu:rpeeSe
~ '   -'  \\_    /  daB a S  . 1                        ~                 \  I    -         w              1n:16 /               OTupa:ting:     (/                                 6   o        d
-90a   <  a            /          ,.            B  A   H   I A                            v        >     7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /'    Ibhtititt                P         :R' 35xrod
~~~~~~~~~~~~SIlrc.f Mahri   _.                                     _"0---                         I'.o                                              E/                         do Oto                   20 0 0 t /ttotot*te   StooS
H,             Petonetenne                     ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l6    -b~ vii
:I,i;A/  j   KILOMETERS                                                         \ /           . .                A L A  G O A S
8  41O00'      _ .   40                   4000               30 35               39 CT)                                                      730               3700                                   To ST               350                           NO       1
B A H I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEEH'9



