Report No. PIC4274
Project Name              Brazil-Pernambuco Rural Poverty Alleviation...
Project
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Environment and Rural Poverty
Project ID                BRPA42566
Borrower                  State Government of Pernambuco
Implementing Agency       PRORURAL
SEPLAN
Rua Benfica, 1008
Madalena
50.720.001 - Recife - PE
Telephone: (081) 227-0210
Fax: (081) 445- 2955
Date PID Prepared         August 1996
Appraisal Date            July 1996
Board Date                December 1996
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Poverty in Brazil has a strong
rural and regional dimension. About 50 percent of the poor live in
rural areas, where the incidence of poverty is more than twice that of
the large cities and urban centers. The Northeast Region has long
constituted the single largest area of rural poverty, not only in
Brazil, but in all of Latin America. This region, covering nine states
and part of a tenth, accounts for 19t of the total land area and aost
30t of Brazil's 148 million population (1993). More than half of all
Brazilian poor, and aost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in
the Northeast where, according to a World Bank Poverty Assessment in
Brazil, annual per capita incomes of rural inhabitants reach only US$230
(less than one-tenth of the national average). (see 1/) The underlying
causes of rural poverty include the relatively poor resource base of
large parts of the Region and variable agro-climatic conditions which
make them vulnerable to periodic and protracted drought. Skewed access
to land and the virtual absence of a functioning rural financial system
for the poor are additional constraints. Northeast agriculture is
characterized by low input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is consequently low, with output per farm worker less than
half that of other regions. Overall, Northeast agricultural GDP growth
was negligible during 1991-1994. Macroeconomic instability and chronic
fiscal deficits over the past decade undermined the effectiveness of the
Government's efforts to address these issues. The 'inflation tax'
penalized the poor disproportionately, and slow growth depressed rural
employment, and therefore poverty worsened.
2.   The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the
early 1970s in financing programs to alleviate rural poverty in the
Northeast. The Federal Government established the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP) in 1985 to reduce rural poverty and improve
the living standards of small farm families in the region. Through



1993, with the exception of one component supporting small community
projects, implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule, and
performance in meeting basic project objectives was weak. The
innovative community-based components (Apoio a Pequenas Comunidades
Rurais, APCR), which relied on community planning and implementation and
stressed community organization, were more successful. They
acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, their poverty
alleviation impact was positive, the cost per family relatively low, and
disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components. The NRDP was reformulated and transformed in its entirety
into a community-based development program -- effective September 28,
1993 -- drawing on both the successful experience of the APCR component
and on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America,
including the Mexican Solidaridad Program.
3.   Performance has improved markedly.   Rural communities spearhead
project implementation by identifying, preparing, implementing and
maintaining subprojects which meet their most pressing needs, increase
their sense of project ownership and have a much sharper focus on
poverty alleviation. In the approximately two years since
reformulation, NRDP disbursements have been significantly higher than
their past historical equivalents, running at about US$9 million per
month compared to US$3.5 million per month prior to reformulation.
Under the reformulated NRDP, 93t of project funds are reaching
beneficiary communities directly, compared with only 44t under the
original projects. Evaluations of the reformulated program indicate
that it is providing a cost-effective mechanism for reaching poor
communities with small-scale and low-cost investments which are having
a significant socio-economic impact on recipients through increased
incomes, employment generation and improved quality of life. While the
analyses have shown aspects of certain subprojects that need
improvement, these can be adjusted by modifications to project design.
4.   The Federal Government is concerned with the level of poverty and
has declared the Northeast a priority area for public development
programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort to combat
poverty and hunger in Brazil is the Comunidade Solidaria program
launched in early 1995, a broad framework for the coordination of rural
and urban poverty programs and projects, focusing on municipalities
where poverty is most severe. Implementation is decentralized,
stressing community self-help and local empowerment. The design of the
reformulated NRDP has had a direct impact on government's strategy
formulation. A first group of three projects under the Northeast Rural
Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP) in the states of Bahia, Ceara and
Sergipe were presented to the Board and approved in June 1995. The RPAP
projects have improved upon the reformulated NRDP by incorporating
lessons learned from its implementation (para. 13) and have served as
the basis for the preparation of the Pernambuco Rural Poverty
Alleviation project.
5.   The State of Pernambuco covers some 98,300 km2 and has a population
of 7.1 million (1991) which is 29t rural. As in the rest of the
Northeast, poverty is closely correlated with rural location. The rural
poor are predominantly smallholders, tenants, sharecroppers and landless
laborers relying on a diverse strategy based predominantly on
- 2-



traditional subsistence agriculture and livestock, complemented by cash
crops (mainly cotton), intermittent work on- and off-farm , and
remittances from family members which have migrated. Socio-economic
indicators attest to the predicament of the rural population in
Pernambuco:  92t of rural households have inadequate water supply;    72t
lack any form of sanitation; 59t of the adult rural population is
illiterate; and 73t of rural heads of households earn one minimum salary
or less per month.
6.   The State's rural poverty alleviation strategy stresses reducing
inequality and combating misery, economic growth which is mindful of
ecosystemic differences and addresses structural problems, and
institutional improvements which enable greater transparency and
efficiency in the provision of services. The Government, mindful of the
lessons from the NRDP projects which emphasize decentralization and
local development, supports community organization for economic and
social ends and aims to reduce communities' dependence on the State's
limited financial and institutional capacity.
7.   Project Objectives. The project would assist the State Government
of Pernambuco to alleviate rural poverty and its consequences by: (a)
providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) decentralizing
resource allocation and decision-making to local levels by supporting
community-based municipal councils and beneficiary associations in
investment planning and implementation; (c) providing a safety net for
the rural poor during a period of macroeconomic reform and fiscal
adjustment; and (d) leveraging resources mobilized at the community and
municipal levels. The project is expected to lay the groundwork for,
and consolidate participatory institutions and processes at the
municipal and community levels. The project would ensure that funds
reach the poorest municipalities and communities, and would expand the
successful strategy of decentralization and participation tested under
the reformulated NRDP.
8.   Project Description.   The project would have three main components:
community subprojects, institutional development, and project
administration (respectively, 90- , 5t and 59 of total project base
cost). Under the community subprojects component, the project would
finance, through matching grants, small-scale, community-selected and
managed subprojects in infrastructure (small-scale rural water supply,
rural electrification and local road improvements), productive
subprojects (small-scale agro-processing such as rice or manioc mills,
communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes), and social subprojects
(house improvements, day care centers and school renovation). Community
subprojects would have cost limits of US$50,000 each and would follow
technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in a detailed Operational Manual to be agreed between the
State and the Bank. This Operational Manual, based on that already in
use for the reformulated NRDP, will reflect lessons learned during the
aost three years of implementation. Poverty-related criteria would be
used to target geographically at the municipal and community levels,
reinforced by community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and
particularly vulnerable groups by project Municipal Councils at the
local level. Subproject proposals are submitted by communities for
-3 -



financing on a competitive basis. Community subprojects will be
financed using three distinct delivery mechanisms, which differ by the
way in which community subprojects are screened and approved and the
funds managed: (a) Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), where decision-
making on subproject selection will be delegated by the State to project
Municipal Councils, with community representatives and other civil
groups comprising at least 80- of the councils' voting members; (b)
Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P), under which selected project
Municipal Councils would approve the subprojects within the context of
an annual budget and would administer subproject funds directly; and,
(c) State Community Schemes (PAC), under which the State (through the
Project Coordinating Unit, PCU) would screen, approve and release funds
for subprojects, interacting directly with the communities. Both the
FUMAC and PAC components have proven successful under the reformulated
NRDP; the FUMAC-P component would be experimental (as in the first three
projects approved in June 1995) and if successful, would be expanded.
9.   Project Financing.   The total cost of the project, to be
implemented over four years, is estimated at US$52.0 million. The
proposed loan would provide US$39.0 million, the State and Municipal
Governments US$8.3 million and beneficiary communities US$4.7 million
(minimum 10t of the total costs of community subprojects, provided
either in cash, kind or labor). The Federal Government would be the
Guarantor of the loan.
10. Project Implementation. The Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria do
Planejamento - SEPLAN) of the State of Pernambuco will implement the
project through the PCU, PRORURAL, which will act as the focal point for
project administration and for communication with the Bank and the State
Government. PRORURAL will also be the project's principal liaison for
the Municipal Councils, for those community associations located in PAC
municipalities and for participating entities such as NGOs and state
agencies. PCU responsibilities will include: (i) project planning and
coordination at the state level through the preparation of Annual
Operating Plans (POAs), including the consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P
Councils, and monitoring activities through maintenance of the project's
Management Information System (MIS); (ii) promoting the project through
statewide information campaigns and encouraging participation of
potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and private sector entities;
(iii) preparing project implementation reports and organizing evaluation
exercises; (iv) ensuring timely and adequate provision of loan and state
counterpart funds; (v) appraising and approving all PAC subproject
proposals; (vi) entering into subproject agreements with community
associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils (FUMAC) and into POA-based
agreements with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to transfer subproject funds
and monitor their use; (vii) overseeing all monitoring and supervision
activities under the project to gauge compliance with project guidelines
and to improve the quality of subprojects and project interventions;
(viii) ensuring that environmental guidelines for subproject approval
and implementation are followed; and (ix) providing technical assistance
to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and PAC beneficiary
communities. It is expected, given the positive response to FUMAC under
the reformulated NRDP, that the need for PAC would diminish during the
course of project implementation, with FUMAC and FUMAC-P gradually
expanding; flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate
- 4 -



funds to accommodate this expansion. In this context, the communities
would take the lead in proposing, preparing, implementing and
maintaining subprojects. To ensure quality, the Operational Manual
would contain, inter alia, standardized technical designs for the most
common types of subprojects, model terms of reference for consultant
contracts, guidelines for environmental assessment, a cost-sharing
matrix and cost indicators for typical investments.
11. The role of the project Municipal Councils in project
implementation is fundamental. Community representation on the Councils
would be at least 80% of voting members.   Their responsibilities would
include: (i) providing technical assistance to the communities for
subproject preparation and execution; (ii) prioritizing all demands
presented by eligible communities, approving subproject proposals and
recommending these to the PCU for financing; and (iii) collaborating
with the PCUs in monitoring and supervising the implementation of all
subprojects. FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition
and modes of operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils, with the fundamental
difference that they would also be responsible for managing subproject
funds and transferring funds to beneficiary associations with approved
subprojects. They would also prepare indicative POAs listing community
investment priorities, targets, timetable, budget and required technical
assistance to implement proposed programs.
12. Project Sustainability. Experience since reformulation indicates
that project sustainability is generally good. The community-based
subprojects would finance relatively small investments which are easily
maintained by the communities themselves, both technically and
financially, as demonstrated under the NRDP even before the 1993
reformulation. Equally important is the fact that client-driven
subprojects, identified and implemented by the communities, have
demonstrated a high degree of ownership by beneficiary groups and their
consequent willingness to maintain them. Under the existing NRDP
projects, commitment by each beneficiary group for operation and
maintenance is a condition for the approval of subprojects and forms
part of the subproject agreement signed with the beneficiary
association. Compliance has been good and these same features will be
built into the new project. Finally, the formation and strengthening of
project Municipal Councils, which have been piloted under the
reformulated NRDP and will continue under the new project, will
stimulate grassroots participation in local development and foster
longer-term project sustainability.
13. Lessons from Bank Experience. The lessons learned from the
reformulated NRDP are borne out by the Bank's experience elsewhere in
Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development
programs. These are: Decentralization of fiscal and investment
decision-making from Federal to state and local governments ensures more
efficient project administration. Decentralization of resource
allocation and investment decisions to municipalities and communities
should be accompanied by a clearly defined and well-disseminated system
of incentives and penalties to discourage the misuse of funds. Poverty
targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be
based on objective criteria; foster transparency and minimize political
interference in project resource allocation; and ensure that project
- 5 -



resources do reach the poorest communities. Participation in the
financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and a
willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and
maintenance of project investments. Beneficiary participation in the
selection, execution, supervision and financing of project investments
ensures that investments respond to true perceived needs, generates cost
savings and increases accountability at the local level; the
organization of poor communities heightens their awareness of available
programs and services, facilitates their participation and increases
subproject cost-effectiveness. Sustainability of project investments
has greater potential when the municipalities and communities contribute
to subproject financing in a cost-sharing arrangement and when there is
increased beneficiary participation. For example, the participatory
process introduced in the pilot Municipal Council component (FUMAC) of
the reformulated NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization of
subprojects by beneficiaries. Sustainability is also fostered when
communities themselves assume greater responsibilities and continue to
voice their demands in a concrete fashion to influence public investment
expenditure at the local level. A widely disseminated and carefully
designed publicity campaign is essential to ensure transparency and
proper knowledge of the program's objectives and contents by all
potential beneficiaries. Technical assistance should be accessible to
rural communities to enable them to identify, prepare and implement
their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for
investment funds. Technical assistance should also be targeted to
weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity; and, the quality of the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), whether it provides technical assistance directly or through
partner entities, is a critical factor in project success and may entail
the contracting of local and/or international organizations to
strengthen its institutional capacities. Standardization of subproject
documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject
preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods
and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects,
thereby encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and
reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle. Supervision, both during
and after subproject implementation, is an indispensable determinant of
success and sustainability. It has to be reinforced at all levels and
involve local entities closest to the communities, particularly
Municipal Councils and NGOs. Finally, a user-friendly monitoring and
evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process,
provides feedback and necessary information to improve targeting and
efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. These
lessons have been taken into account in the design of the Pernambuco
Rural Poverty Alleviation Project.
14. Poverty and Program Objective Category. The proposed project is
part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. The Northeast
Region has the greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil, and about half
of the rural population of Pernambuco lives below the official poverty
line. The project also employs a targeting mechanism at the
beneficiary, community and municipal level which takes into account
poverty-related criteria and other key parameters to ensure that project
resources reach those communities which contain a higher concentration
of rural poor than the rest of the State.
- 6-



15. Environmental Aspects. The proposed project has been classified as
"B".  Given their relatively small size and nature, most community
subprojects would not have a significant impact on the environment. The
project would, however, ensure proper environmental screening and
enforcement measures to prevent any negative environmental effects that
certain types of productive or infrastructure investments could produce.
The Operational Manual would specify environmental criteria, screening
procedures and enforcement mechanisms to be followed.
1/    Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division,
The World Bank, June 27, 1995.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending
September 13, 1996.
-7-



