Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4122-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Pernambuco)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
Dated July 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4122-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF PERNAMBUCO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territory of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Approved POA" means each approved annual operating plan referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Civil Association" means a civil association (associação civil) duly 
established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the Guarantor's laws, and 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
for participating in the Project;
(c)
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part A of the 
Project to be carried out by a Civil Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Council Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between the SEPLAN (as hereinafter defined) and a Municipal Council (as hereinafter 
defined), providing for the terms and conditions for the participation of such 
Municipal Council in the Project, including, inter alia, the making of Pilot Grants 
(as hereinafter defined) by such Municipal Council;
(e)
"FUMAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 75% of 
the cost of a Community Subproject approved by a Municipal Council (as hereinafter 
defined) and made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to a Civil Association in a Municipality (as hereinafter defined), for the 
financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Grant" means any of a FUMAC Grant or a Pilot Grant or a PAC Grant (the 
latter two as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Grant Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between: (i) a Municipal Council (as hereinafter defined) and a Civil Association 
providing for a Pilot Grant (as hereinafter defined); and (ii) SEPLAN (as hereinafter 
defined) and a Civil Association providing for a PAC Grant (as hereinafter defined) or 
a FUMAC Grant;
(h)
"Implementation Plan" means the plan for the overall implementation of 
the Project set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(i)
"MIS" means the Project monitoring and information system, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to provide information on the Project implementation, which shall 
include, inter alia, information on the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter 
defined);
(j)
"Model Forms" means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to the 
Bank, including standard drafts of Council Agreements and Grant Agreements, set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
"Municipal Council" means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations and including a representative 
of the PCU (as hereinafter defined), as provided in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(l)
"Municipality" means any of the municipalities set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement and any other municipality that may be added to such list from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the criteria and procedures for the Project implementation and including 
the Model Forms, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and the Borrower;
(n)
"PAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 75% of the 
cost of a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by the PCU (as 
hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Civil Association for the 
financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational 
Manual;
(o)
"PCU" means the Project coordinating unit, under the Borrower’s SEPLAN 
(as hereinafter defined), established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 18,392 of 
March 7, 1995, and referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Performance Indicators" means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, and any other additional performance indicator that may be agreed 
from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower;
(q)
"Pilot Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 75% of 
the cost of a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by a 
Municipal Council, under a Council Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Civil Association for the financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms 
of the Operational Manual;
(r)
“SEPLAN” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning; and
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty nine million Dollars 
($39,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by the Borrower under Grants to meet the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services required for Community Subprojects (under Part A of the Project) in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  4
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
Page  5
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEPLAN, with the assistance of the Municipal Councils with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, 
agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and in accordance 
with the Operational Manual, the Implementation Plan and the Approved POAs, and shall 
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
SEPLAN, maintain during Project implementation, the PCU with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAN:
(i)
enter into Council Agreements and Grant Agreements, as the case 
may be, 
whenever appropriate for the carrying out of the 
Project, such agreements to 
be made in accordance with the terms of 
the respective draft set forth in the 
Model Forms; and
(ii)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Council 
Agreements and the Grant Agreements in such a manner 
as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Council Agreements and 
the 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, a base-line study 
(perfil de entrada) on the Project;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about a date 24 months after the Effective Date, a report 
integrating the results of the evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by a date 24 months after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
Page  6
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in the month of October of each year during the carrying out of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and 
budget, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be 
carried out during the next succeeding year and the respective budgetary proposal; and
(b)
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
in each month during the carrying out of the Project, beginning in the 
second month after the Effective Date, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the 
Bank a report on the disbursements under the Project during the previous month 
(disbursement report), of such scope and detail as the Bank shall request; and
(b)
in the months of January and July of each year during the carrying out of 
the Project, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the Bank a report on the 
implementation of the Project during the previous six months (performance report), of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall request, which shall include, inter alia, 
information on the carrying out of Community Subprojects and their results.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in the twelfth month after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank the 
results and recommendations of a study, carried out under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the cost structure and results of Community Subprojects, 
including physical performance evaluation, cost comparisons and procurement procedures 
assessment;
(b)
review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such study; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by 
the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph  (b) above, as 
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives, such action to be taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon 
during such reviews.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower or other entities responsible for the carrying 
out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  7
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
that the Borrower has adopted a work program for an introductory 
information campaign about the Project in the territory of the Borrower, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
that the Borrower has established the MIS in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Guarantor, the Borrower or any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or 
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the 
Guarantor and the Borrower to perform their respective obligations pursuant to the 
Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights 
in connection therewith, have been performed or given; and
(e)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central 
Bank.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
Page  8
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central 
Bank; and
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly  and validly 
performed or given and that no such other acts, consents or approval are required in 
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and the 
Borrower to perform their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained 
in the Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, respectively.
Section 5.03. The date October 29, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Secretariat of Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For the Borrower:
Secretaria do Planejamento
Rua da Moeda, 46 - Centro
50.030-040  Recife, Pernambuco
Brazil
Telex:
(81) 3227  GOPE
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
Telex: 
(61) 1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
By /s/ Mauro Magalhães Vieira Filho
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                Amount of the
                Loan Allocated
       % of
                (Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
       Dollar Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
Grants  
                             75% of the cost of the
                respective Community
                Subproject
(a)
FUMAC Grants
     22,000,000
(b)
Pilot Grants
      3,000,000
(c)
PAC Grants
      9,700,000
(2)
Consultants' services     3,100,000
   100%
and training for Parts
B and C of the Project
(3)
Administrative Costs:
(a)
incremental costs
 200,000
   20%
(b)
Project supervision
 700,000
   50%
costs
(4)
Unallocated 
              300,000
     _________
TOTAL
           39,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Administrative Costs" means the 
incremental operational costs and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project 
incurred by the PCU under Part C of the Project, excluding expenditures for salaries 
and related benefits and training.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
Page  10
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$3,900,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 1, 1996 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement 
whichever is later;
(b)
payments under a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement shall have 
been entered into between the parties thereto; and
(c)
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments under a Grant for a 
Community Subproject estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods and works 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000; (b) for services of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower's efforts to alleviate 
rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a) providing basic social and economic 
infrastructure, and employment and income generating opportunities; (b) supporting 
rural community groups in planning and implementing their own subprojects; (c) 
providing a safety net for the rural poor; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization at 
the community and municipal levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Community Subprojects
Financing of small scale community investments consisting, inter alia, of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as rural water supply, electrification, local road 
improvements and construction of small bridges; (b) social investments such as 
construction of day care centers, and rehabilitation of schools and health post; and 
(c) other investment such as small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of 
agricultural equipment and minor irrigation schemes.
Part B:
Institutional Development
1.
Carrying out of a basic introductory capacity building program for Municipal 
Councils.
2.
Provision of training for the PCU and Municipal Councils.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training for participating communities in, 
inter alia, community mobilization and organization, preparation of subprojects, and 
operation and maintenance of investments.
4.
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Civil 
Associations, to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with 
respect to the carrying out of the Project.
5.
Provision of technical assistance aiming at the reform of the Borrower’s 
institutional, administrative and financial areas.
Part C:
Project Administration
Page  11
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision 
including, inter alia:
1.
the operation of the PCU and its field offices related to Project 
implementation;
2.
the establishment and operation of the MIS;
3.
the carrying out of information campaigns within the Borrower’s territory to 
disseminate information about the Project; and
4.
the carrying out of Project evaluation studies, including, inter alia, 
performance reviews and impact evaluations.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
on each March 15 and September 15
1,950,000
beginning on March 15, 2002
through September 15, 2011
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
Page  12
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 hereof, goods and works financed by 
Grants under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part B.1, bidding documents in 
a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
2.
National Shopping for Goods
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods financed by Grants under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, works financed by Grants under Part A of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
Page  13
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract. 
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works, financed by Grants under Part A of the Project for Community 
Subprojects of up to $50,000 equivalent, to be procured by a Civil Association, may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as provided in paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) as detailed in the Operational Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part B.1 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consórcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
Page  14
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$3,900,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  15
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators
For purposes of this Schedule, the term “beneficiaries” means the members of an 
Page  16
Association and any other person receiving a direct benefit from the results of the 
implementation of a Community Subproject.
Activities
Completed by
First training activity offered to:
-Associations
5 months after the Effective 
Date
-communities
(mobilization)
3 months after the effective 
Date
-Municipal Councils
6 months after the Effective 
Date
-PCU
1 month after the Effective 
Date
Preparation of annual program of training and technical assistance September of 
each year of project implementation
Information campaign launching
1 month after the Effective 
Date
12 standard designs for infrastructure made
1 month after the 
Effective Date
Evaluation studies:
-physical performance reviews 
February of each year of 
 completed
project implementation, 
beginning in 1998
-mid-term implementation review
February of 1999
 completed
-impact evaluation completed:
*baseline
February of 1998
*final
May of 2001
-graduation study completed
December of 1998
Part B:
Performance Indicators
Completed
Completed by
Indicators (cumulative)
by 12/98
Project Completion 
1.
Community Subprojects
No. of Community Subprojects
implemented
-infrastructure
400
770
-social 160
310
-productive
300
580
No. of beneficiaries (under Community
Subprojects)
*total (‘000 families)
 58
110
* percent of women as
beneficiaries of 
implemented productive
subprojects
 30%
30%
No. of Associations benefited
430
830
No. of Municipalities attended 
152
152
No. of FUMAC Municipal Councils
 established
 50
 60
No. of FUMAC-P Municipal 
Councils established
         9
 10
2.
Institutional Development
Page  17
No. of training and community mobilization
events beneficiaries of offered to:
*beneficiaries
550
1070
*Municipal Councils
213
 321
Technical assistance
(via contract) provided to:
*subprojects in 
implementation
860
1660
*Municipal Councils
 57
  70
3.
Project Administration
Supervision
*No. of visits to subprojects
 in implementation
     1720
      3320
*No. of visits to Municipal 
Councils
      198
478
Monitoring Reports
*No. of monthly disbursement
 and MIS updates
       24
 48
*No. of semi-annual and 
annual reports
 4
  8
No. of Evaluation Studies completed 5
  8
SCHEDULE 7
Municipalities
Abreu e Lima 
Afogados da Ingazeira 
Afranio 
Agrestina 
Agua Preta 
Aguas Belas 
Alagoinha 
Alianca 
Altinho 
Amaraji 
Angelim 
Aracoiaba 
Araripina 
Arcoverde 
Barra de Guabiraba 
Barreiros 
Belem de Maria 
Belem de Sao Francisco 
Belo Jardim 
Betania 
Bezerros 
Bodocó 
Bom Conselho 
Bom Jardim 
Bonito 
Brejao 
Brejinho 
Brejo da Madre de Deus 
Buenos Aires 
Buique 
Cabo 
Cabrobo 
Cachoeirinha 
Caetes 
Calcados 
Page  18
Calumbi 
Camaragibe 
Camocim de Sao Felix 
Camutanga 
Canhotinho 
Capoeiras 
Carnaiba 
Carnaubeira da Penha 
Carpina 
Caruaru 
Casinhas 
Catende 
Cedro 
Cha de Alegria 
Cha Grande 
Condado 
Correntes 
Cortes 
Cumaru 
Cupira 
Custodia 
Dormentes 
Escada 
Exu 
Feira Nova 
Ferreiros 
Flores 
Floresta 
Frei Miguelinho 
Gameleira 
Garanhuns 
Gloria do Goita 
Goiana 
Granito 
Gravata 
Iati 
Ibimirim 
Ibirajuba 
Igarassu 
Iguaraci 
Inaja 
Ingazeira 
Ipojuca 
Ipubi 
Itacuruba 
Itaiba 
Itamaraca 
Itambe 
Itapetim 
Itapissuma 
Itaquitinga 
Jatauba 
Jaqueira 
Jatobá 
Joao Alfredo 
Joaquim Nabuco 
Jucati 
Jupi 
Jurema 
Lagoa de Itaenga 
Lagoa do Carro 
Lagoa do Ouro 
Lagoa dos Gatos 
Lagoa Grande 
Lajedo 
Limoeiro
Macaparana 
Page  19
Machados 
Maraial 
Mirandiba 
Moreilândia 
Moreno 
Manari 
Nazare da Mata 
Orobo 
Oroco 
Ouricuri 
Palmares 
Palmeirinha 
Panelas 
Paranatama 
Parnamirim 
Passira 
Paudalho 
Pedra 
Pesqueira 
Petrolandia 
Petrolina 
Pocao 
Pombos 
Primavera 
Quipapa 
Quixaba 
Riacho das Almas 
Ribeirao 
Rio Formoso 
Saire 
Salgadinho 
Salgueiro 
Saloa 
Sanharo 
Santa Cruz 
Santa Cruz da Baixa Verde 
Santa Cruz do Capibaribe 
Santa Filomena 
Santa Maria da Boa Vista 
Santa Maria do Cambuca 
Santa Terezinha 
Sao Benedito do Sul 
Sao Bento do Una 
Sao Caetano 
Sao Joao 
Sao Joaquim do Monte 
Sao Jose da Coroa Grande 
Sao Jose do Belmonte 
Sao Jose do Egito 
Sao Lourenco da Mata 
Sao Vicente Ferrer 
Serra Talhada 
Serrita 
Sertania 
Sirinhaem 
Solidão 
Surubim 
Tabira 
Tacaimbo 
Tacaratu 
Tamandaré 
Taquaritinga do Norte 
Terezinha 
Terra Nova 
Timbauba 
Toritama 
Tracunhaem 
Page  20
Trindade 
Triunfo 
Tupanatinga 
Tuparetama 
Venturosa 
Verdejante 
Vertente do Lerio 
Vertentes 
Vicencia 
Vitoria de Santo Antao 
Xexeu
