Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&R0C7-  c2>
Report No. P-4977-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 45.4 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
MARCH-30, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit       CFA Franc
US$ 1               CFAF 300
CFAF 1              US$ 0.003
CFAF 1 million -    US$ 3.333
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)              -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         m    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.39 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (t)         -    2.205 pounds (lbs)
ABBRFVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF         African Development Fund
BEAC         Banque des Etats d'Afrique Centrale
BDEAC        Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BNF          Bureau National de Fret
BTCD         Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de Developpement
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
CFAF         Franc of the African Monetary Union
COTONTCHAD   Societe Cotonniare du Tchad
CTT          Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
DAC          Direction de l'Aviation Civile
DEP/MTAC     Direction des Etudes et de la Planification du MTAC
DGTAC        Direction Generale des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile
DGTP         Direction Generale des Travaux Publics
DRTP         Delegation Regionale des Travaux Publics
DTP          Direction des Travaux Publics
DTS          Direction des Transports de Surface
EDF/FED      European Development Fund/Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Agency)
FRC          Financial Rehabilitation Credit
KFW          Kreditandstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (German Bilateral Aid Agency)
LNBTP        Laboratoire National du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
MTP          Ministere des Travaux Publics
MTAC         Ministere des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile
OFNAR        Office National des Routes
RFA          Republique Federsle d'Allemagne
SONASUT      Societe Nationale Sucriare
STEE         Societe Tchadienns d'Electricite
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENTIINVESTMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase No.
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMNARY
I.      THE ECONOMY AND THE ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A.   Background  . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.   Recent Economic Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.   Macroeconomic Policy Issues * ......... .      a..................   4
D.   Macroeconomic and Sectoral Adjustment Programs  . . . . . .  5
II.     MAIN ISSUES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOF;  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
A.   The Transport Sector          ...................    7
B.   High Transport Costs  ..........................    9
C.   High Transport Priceso8   * -   *  ..   . . -  . - v    --  10
III.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTHENTIINVESTErNT PROGRAM . . . . . . . 11
A.   Rehabilitation of the Priority Road Network . . . . . . . .  12
B.   Improved Resonrce Mobilization and Allocation in the
Transport Sector   .... .. .. ..   . .  . .   . . .   . . ... . . ..   13
C.   Liberalization of the Road Transport Industry . . . . . . . 15
D.  Ilcreased Role of the Private Sector in the Road
Construction Industry   ...... . .. . . . . . . . . . .  17
E.   Improving the Public Management of the Transport Sector . . 18
F.   The Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy in
the Context of the Ongoing Macroeconomic Adjustment
Program ... .. ... . .   .  o . .  o . . . . .........   20
IV.     THE PROPOSED PROJECT .. . .. . . ... . .. ....... .  ..... 22
A.   Project Objectives  ....         .. ..............  22
B.   Project Description .... . . .        .     ............    22
C.   The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Erogram .' .....    23
D.   Air Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation . . . . . . . . 23
E.   Institutional Strengthening . . . . .     .   . . .. . . .   23
F.   Project Cost and Financing  .  ......       .........   24
G.   Project Implementation  .  ...... . . . . .  .  ......  27
He   Procurement .*. . . .   . . ...   . .   . . . . ..  . . . . .. . ..   28
I.   Disbursements and Tranche Release . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . 31
J.   Reporting ard Auditing  . .............. .. .  33
K.   Project Justification .................. . ....... . ..a....  33
V.      BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD  ................... ..a..........    35
VI.     COLLABORATIONWITH THEINF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDkTIONS .   . . . . . . .   . a. ..   . 38
This document has a restrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



Annex l:Key M croeconomic Indicators, Balance of Payments,
Status of Bank Operations
Anne" 2i Detailed Cost Kstimate
Annex 3: Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4s Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5a Statement of Transport Sector Policy (with attachments 5-1,
5-2, 5-3, 5-4)
Annex 6sMatrix of Sector Policies, Issues and Actions to be
Implemented
Annex 7:Chad Road Construction Design Norms
Chart 1tOrganigramme dii Ministere des Travaux Publics
Chart 2: Organigrame du Ministere des Transports et de l'Aviation
Civile
Chart 3: Organigraue de la Direction Ginirale de l'OFNAR
SiP      IBRD 21338



REIUIIC Ot- CRAD
DOCUMNTS I11 TU l!RlOJCT FILEC
in ~    ~ ~ to  Fll- UR
Ret. No.                        beest Title                                  slt_
I.             Project Proceenas
1.    Projoe d'Aju.temnt Sectoriel de- Transpor                 Correspoadence by dat.
Mistson de Pr"valuatlon, Aldeb-Mmolre.
Transport Stor Adjustmnt Credit,
Initiating Memorandum, July 5, 1086.
2.   Projet d'Ajustemsnt Seatoriel doe Transports,               Corr._poadae  by dat
Atde-1Mmolre do la Mission d'E vtluatlon
(14 tu 22 Novembre 198B). Appraisal Misslon,
Back-to-Office Report, Decombr 6, 1t80.
X.              Sector C sakaround
1.   Preparotion of Transport Sector Project, Preliminary        0-28568
Study of Rural Roads In the Southeast
a Chad, ftnal rport, Coluenconsult GM.
2.   Projet Sactoriel des Transports, Etude                      0-28S 9
Pr6llminalre do Routes Rurloa dane Is
Sud-EUt du Tohd, Etud Econemique.
8.   Chad Strengthening Road Maintenano ProJoct,                 0-2860
by USAI, June 24. 198.
4.   Prormo do Rabilltatilon at d'Entretien Routior              D-2801
(108601), Rapport 0Ara Is, SCEWO, AeSt 18$.
5.   Program  do Rbabi tiltation eb d'Entetlen                   0-289
Routler (198641), Annexee, do rapport i-deslue,
BCIt, AOt 1086.
S.   Note our lee Penn de Organlsation* Intern-                  D-28
tiontless PIW, PAM, CARE TCNAD, FAO.
7.  tloglestic our I lndustrie, de Traporot Routiere             0-286M
c*u Tohad, SEDES, Jul  lot 1977.
8.   Etude do Recouvremet de Coots d'Entr4tien Routler,          0-28505
Rapport d*ActIvItA, Louis Berger lntenationl,
Inc., Jenwler 108.
9.  RNunlon de Sulvl d  lo Table Rondo de Cenave                 0-285
do DOoebro 1985. Secteur dee Trensporte,
Volume 1, Pr6sentatlon de le Strat6gle et do
Progr_me do 06volopp_ment, FUrler 1986.
10.  RAunlon do Sulvi do Is Table Rondo doe nwve                 0-28969
do O6enbro 186. Secteur des Traneports,
Volume 2, PrAcentation do la Strat,ie *t du
Program  do 06veopp_ent, Annexes, FPvrier 1068.



- ii. -
Projecb File C.de/
Rot. No.                       Docuent Title                            auk DOceNent N.
11.  O llun d  l'Ot Tice do  Carrires eb ConstItution           0-285
do Is Socl6t d'Exploitatton des Carrlros do
Tkend, Rapport Provisoire, SECAT, More 1988.
12.   Milstre  de Transport. et do IA"iation Clvillo            D-23698
Etud do I'Industri. doo Transports, Rapport Final,
SCEOM, Avril 198.
18.  Pr6valuxtion du Projet Sctoriel des Transport..            0-28599
Prootion des Petite. ot Moyonne  Entreprles do
Travaux Routlern, Rapport do Mission, Hugues
Casaing, Juin 1988.
14.  Etude de R6organlsatlon de lOffice Natlonal               D-28690
des Routes, Volume 1: Manuel d'Organlation do
l'OFNAR, Louis Berger International Inc.,
Juillet 1988.
15.  Etude do Rdorganisation do  'Office Notional               D-28608
des Routes, Volume 2: Plan de Formation, Louis
Berger International Inc., Juillet 1988.
16.  Etude do R4organtstion do I"Off lce National               D-2BB00
dos Routes, Volume 8: Plan do R6orgsniation,
Louis Berger International, Inc., Juillet 1088.
17.  R6orgsnisation du Systbm Comptable do I'Off lc            0-28691
National des Routes du Tchad, (OFNAR),
Fiduclalre do to Tour, Juillot 1988.
18.  Plan do Formtion, Volume 1, Rapport, BCEOM,                0-28002
Octobre 1988.
19.  Plan do Formation, Volume 2, AnnexMs, BCEOJ,               0-2868J
Oatobre 1998.
20.  Etud d'Organieation du Ministhre des Travaux               0-23808
PubiIco,
Volum 1, rapport, BCEON, Octobre 1988.
21.  Etude d'Orgpntn tton do MinistAre des Travaux              0-28680
Pubi c,
Volume 2, Annexes, BCEON, utobre 198.
22.  Audit Financier do In CoopOrative des Transporteuru        0-23se4
Tchadiene, Fiducistre de le Tour, 0Dcembre 1988.
23.  Mission D'Assistance Technique, Etud du Conset I           D-28695
des Chargeurs du Tchnd et du Projt do Zone
Tchadienno on Zone WEAC a Douanl, Louis Borger
International, Inc., Janvier 1989
24.  Cr6ation du Bureu National do Fr8t                         0-24092
Rapport AFT du 10 f4vrier 1989.
25.  grant agrement for the strengthening                       0-23886
of the road maintenance project,
USAID, June 28, 1985.



Rof.~~ ~   ~~~~~ No. Oco 
Ret. N..       ecsmu~~~~~~~t Title                   *gJgbFil Code/
ftf. me.    oeemonat ritio                          OWk ~~~~~DOCusAMt NO.
26.   Final roport on the *valuntion Studs:                     0-2BMG
strengthening road malnt nnc  project in
Chad (English & French, texts)
Pnreons Brinch*rhoff, May 90.
27.   Strengthening road maintenance                            0-28068
projoct No. 677 Uz: project
lmplemnntation letter No. 1? A
Annexes, USAID, August 19, 18.
28.  Annx No. 6: roads In N'Djamgne                             0-28309
subdivision (proposal from outside
design teem not yet accepted),
USAID, 1908.
29.  Evaluation Economique du Programm                          D-24688
Routler 1909-1998



- iv -
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTKENTIINVESTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Public Works
Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
Credit Amounts:      (US$60.0 million equivalent)
IDA                 SDR 45.4 million
Termst              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Descriptions        The proposed credit is a hybrid policy and Investment
program intended to support within the transport sector
the objectives of the ongoing macro-economic adjustment
program. The principal objective of the project is to
reduce both the cost and the price of transport in Chad.
To do this, the proposed project would assist: (a) the
rehabilitation of 1800 km of priority roads drawn from
tho donor-supported Transport Sector Investment Plan
1988-93; (b) Improvements in resource mobilization and
allocation in the transport sector In order to secure
adequate maintenance of the rehabilitated network; (c)
the abolition of the existing monopoly and administered
tariffs in order to reduce the cost of trucklng
operations, pass vehicle operating cost savings on to
shippers and elicit a supply response from the productive
sectors of the economy; (d) promotion of Increased
competition and greater role of the private sector in the
road construction industry; and (e) strengthening of the
public administration of the transport sector.
Benefits and
Riskss              The proposed Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Program (TSAIP) would support the creation of a
deregulated   trucking   industry   operating   on   a
rehabilitated and well-maintained road network which is
expected to reduce significantly the cost and price of
transport, to elicit a supply response from the
productive sectors of the economy and, thus, to act as
a stimulant to economic development. The TSAIP is also
expected to considerably improve resource mobilization
in the transport sector in order to met the cumulative
needs of routine road maintenance for the period 1989-
93 and for each year thereafter. The most significant
risk lies in a possible lack of sufficient political will
to nplement some of the planned policy actions such as
Government's commitment to liberalize tbe road transport



- v -
industry and to abolish the current road trissport
monopoly and adm.nistered tariffs. Another risk to a
slower than planned strengthening of Government's
Institutions which Vill slow down the implementation of
the physical investments of the project.



- vt -
Summsra Project tost Estimate and Flnancina Plan
VNet of TOxs Oad Dutle)
----USS milIIon-----
Project Components                                    Forsin        Loel         Tots
A.   INVESTMENTS
1.   Clvil Works
a.    SulIdings
Rehabilitation & Construction
of MTP/MTAC                                4.2          0.2          4.4
Rehabilitation of DAC bulIding              0.8          0.0          O.8
b.    Road rehabilitation by contract             45.7           1.9        47.6
e.    Road rehabililtation by force eacount        11.8         0.2          11.5
d.    Urban roads construction                      8.0          0.4          6.4
*.    Air transport lnfrastructures                11.6          0.8         11.7
f.    Arlports equipant.                          06.8          6.5           1.8
2.   Ministry of Public Works
*.    T<ehnical assistance
To MTP                                      2.9                       2.9
To projoct manageent unit                   1.5                       1.5
To OPA                                     1.0.
To ENTP *nd LNBTP                           6.6                       0.9
b.    Training and scholarships to
MTP and OFNAR                               8.0                       8.0
c.    Studies, civil work, supervtilon
A audits, general studies, road
research and audit*                         2.0                       2.6
Road engineering studies                     1.1                       1.1
Civil works supervision                      8.6          0.1          8.0
8.   Ministry of Transport A Civil Aviation
a.    Technical assistance
To UTAC, BNF & OPR                          2.7          6.1          2.8
To AIR TCNAD                                1.6                       1.5
b.    Training and scholarshtps                    1.8                       1.8
C.    Studies A audits                             0.8                       0.6
4.   Oneratina Costs
a.    SNF                                          0.8          0.1          0.4
b.   Project management unit                       0.4          0.1           6.5
6.   Continoencle
a.    Physlcal contingencles                       7.1          0.4           7.4
b.    Price contingencl-o                         12.0           6.5         18.1
B.   SECL ADJUSTMENT
Budget Support Related to
Sectornl Adjustmen                               2090                       2060
C.   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                                 06.0         21.7         21.7
Total                                      158.8         20.2        18B.9



- vii -
Financina Plan (US$ million equivalent)
BDUC                      10.6
CCCE                      13.1
FAC                        3.3
AfDF                      11.3
EDP                        4.8
IDA                       60.0
OPEC                       4.5
RFA                       22.7
UNDP                       0.5
USAID                     23.0
Chad Government           26.2
Total          180.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year           1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
----     (US$ million)------
I. Investments
AnnIAl            8.3  16.6  11.3   1.8   2.0
Cumulative        8.3  24.9  36.2  38.0  40.0
II. Ad1ustment
Tranche release  6.0   8.0   6.0    -
Cumulative
adjustment      6.0  14.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Total
Annual            14.3  24.6  17.3   1.8   2.0
Cumulative       14.3  38.9  56.2  58.0  60.0
Staff Appraisel
Reports              This Is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report
Economic Rate of
Return:              Overall physical investment: 15S



INT,RNATIONAL DEVR .OPUIE ASSOCIAMTIO
RENPORlrT ANDaI-T
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOHIENT CREDIT
TO TM RIPUBLIC O  COD TOR A
RAnS         SECTOR ADJUS NTNS          .
1.        I submit the following report and recommundation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad in the amount of SDR 45.4 million
(US$60.0 million equivalent) for approval. The proposed credit would bo on
standard I)A terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance a transport
sector adjustmentlinvestment project.  Cofinancing for the project would
include BDEAC (US$10.6 million equivalent), French CCCE (US$13.1 million
equivalent) and FAC (US$3.3 million equivalent), AfD? (US$11.3 million
equivalent), EDF (US$4.8 million equivalent), OPEC (US$4.5 million) RPA
(US$22.7 million equivalent), UNDP (US$0.5 million), USAID (US$23.0 million)
and the Chad Government (US$26.2 million equivalent).
I.   THE ICOOIMY AND TUB  DJSENT PO
2.        The following assessment of the Chadian economy Is based on the
Country Economic Memorandum (Report 6785-CD) distributed to the Executive
Directors In October 1987, on the President's Report on the Financial
Rehabilitation Program (Report P-4806-CD) distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1988, and on missions that visitod Chad in 1988 to review
progress of the macroeconomic adjustment program and prepare the proposed
transport sector adjustment/investment project. Annex I contains economic
Indicators.
A. lackaround
3.         With an estimated per capita income of US$150 in 1987, Chad Is one
of the poorest countries in the world and ranks very low in torms of most
welfare-related  Indicators.   Its economy  is highly dependent on the
agriculture and livestock sectors, which account for nearly half of Chad's
GDP and provide a living for 902 of its population of 5.2 mlflion.
Population growth is about 2.5Z p.a., and the ratio of population to arable
land is quite favorable compared to other Sahellan countries. During periods
of normal rainfall, Chad has been self-sufficient in cereals. Cotton and
liv'-'tock are the main export products. Industry contributes about one-fifth
of GDP and is dominated by a few enterprises producing, apart from cotton,
consumer goods for the domestic market.
4.        Chadts economic development has been hampered bys
(a)  variable  climatic  conditions,  particularly  fickle  rainfall
patterns, which bring about significant variations In agricultural
and livestock production;
(b)  the lack of proven mineral resources, though petroleum reserves may
hold some promise for t'Le future;
(e)  the great internal distances associated with Chad's vast territory;
(d)  Chad's position in the African continent, which results In long
external distances to the nearest oeoan ports and which, coupled



- 2 -
with administrative hindrances by neighboring countries'
authorities, significantly increases the cost of International
transport and weakens Chad's ability to compete in foreign markets;
(e)  more than two decades of political instability culminating in the
1979-82 war during which industries reduced or suspended
operations, banks closed down, public administration ceased to
function, and much of the country's infrastructure was destroyed
or deteriorated due to lack of maintenance; during this period, GDP
declined by 301; by 1987, real GDP had returned to about its 1977
level, but it had to be shared with about one million more people;
(f) the severe drought of 1984, whose serious impact on the agriculture
and livestock sectors disrupted the post-war economic recovery,
though its immediate effects were alleviated by significant amounts
of food aid; and
(g) the 1985/86 sharp drop in, and subsequent wide fluctuations of,
cotton world prices, which had dramatic repercussions on Chad's
economy and financial system, since cotton is the single most
important activity in Chad's cash economy and its major export.
D.  Recent Economic Developments
5.        The performance of the Chadian economy during the last few years
was deeply affected by the crisis of the cotton sector. Domestic cotton
prices (in CFAF terms) fell by 671 from mid-1984 to mid-1986 due to a decline
in US dollar-denominated world market prices and the depreciatioin of the US
dollar vis-a-vis the French franc, to which the CFAF is pegged. During the
same period, the expenditures of COTONTCHAD (the cotton parasta;.l) Increased
sharply because of poor management. As a result, the company sustained huge
losses and accumulated arrears of CFAF 43 billion to the banking system.
Despite the downturn in the cotton industry, Chad's real GDP grew 30% in 1985
reflecting a remArkable rebound from the drought, including a doubling in
cereal production. However, real GDP declined slightly in 1986/87 due to the
continued effects of the cotton crisis and uneven rainfall.  Preliminary
estimates suggest that substantial real growth took place in 1987/88 (12-
141).
6.        In response to the cotton crisis, the Government implemented a
rigorous Emergency Program which aimed at reducing costs in the sector. The
program covered the 1986187 and 1987/88 crop seasons and included the
following measures: reducing input subsidies from 502 to zero over two years,
limiting cotton production to 100,000 tons, closing redundant ginneries,
exempting COTONTCHAD from payment of export taxes, and substantially reducing
the staff of COTONTCHAD. The two-year Cotton Emergency Program achieved its
objective: COTONTCHAD's costs were reduced form CFAF 913 per kg fiber in
1985186 to CFAF 495 per kg fiber in 1987188.  Cotton fiber is now being
produced at about the same cost as in 1983184, prior to the period of lax
management of COTONTCHAD, when its costs were similar to those of other West
African cotton companies. COTONTCHAD's operating losses have been reduced
from CFAF 19 billion in 1985/86 to approximately CFAF 1.9 billion in 1987188.



- 3 -
Further steps to control expenditures are expected to lower COTONTCHAD's cost
to CFAF 447 per kg fiber in 1988189.   In 1986, the Central Bank of the
Central African Monetary Union, of which Chad is a member, agreed to
reschedule COTONTCHAD's arrears over a period of 10 years with 5 years grace
and a two-year moratorium on the payment of interest, and discussions are
under way to reduce the debt-service burden resulting from this rescheduling.
7.        Chad's already precarious public finances have been aggravated by
the cotton crisis. The loss of export taxes on cotton, which was a major
source of government revenue, contributed to a decline of nearly 20S in
budgetary receipts in 1986. As a result, domestic resource mobilization
through the government budget is low, about 82 of GDP in 1988. To partially
offset the loss of cotton revenue, the Government increased various Jnsumer
taxes.   It also reduced current expenditures, which were alred. .y at a
critically  low  level.    Nevertheless,  the  fiscal  deficit  on  current
expenditures (commitment basis) increased from 1.62 of GDP in 1985 to 4.72
in 1987. The deficit was financed through budgetary aid and the accumulation
of domestic and external arrears. The Government recognised the need to
generate additional revenues through broadening the tax base and improving
tax administration.   In July 1987, as a first step, the cumbersome and
complex system of taxing imports of petroleum products was replaced with A
unitary consumption tax levied by the Customs services at entry points.
Additional measures were taken in November 1987 to improve collection of the
new tax, and its yields are increasing. Proposals for a comprehensive reform
of the tax structure and its administration have been prepared by the IMF in
December 1988. Public investment, estimated at 10-12S of GDP, is entirely
financed through external assistance, as is a significant portion of the
associated recurrent costs.
8.        Chad's external current account deficit increased sharply due
mainly to the decline of world cotton prices and the weakening of the US
dollar. With export earnings declining by 402 between 1984 and 1986, Chad's
current account deficit more than doubled to about 302 of GDP in 1986, but
is provisionally estimated at about 162 for 1988. The deficit was financed
by an increase of both capital grants and concessional lending. Over this
period, the focus of aid also changed from emergency food aid to development
assistance, which tripled between :985 and 1987.   Budget support also
increased in response to the impact of the cotton crisis on public finances.
9.        Although, by conventional measures, Chad has a relatively small
external debt and a low debt service ratio, it has experienced serious debt-
servicing problems. The country's external debt was equivalent to 372 of GDP
at end-1987, and is estimated to rise to 462 in 1988; most of it has been
contracted by the public sector on concessional terms. In 1985 and 1986,
Chad's scheduled debt service was only 72 of export earnings.   Actual
payments, however, covered only about half the debt service due, and arrears
were accumulated which amounted to about US$80 million by end-1987. The
Chadian Government repaid arrears to most multilateral creditors and
rescheduled arrears to bilateral creditors through negotiations. Scheduled
debt service in 1987 and 1988 is in the order of US$13 million.   Debt
servicing is constrained by inadequate public sector resource mobilization.
In 1988, scheduled debt service by the public sector amounted to one-quarter



of budget revenues and, thus, represented a heavy burden for Chad's public
finances.
C.   Macroeconomic Policy Issues
10.       Chad's economic growth In the next few years will be hampered by
a number of structural issues, which mostly result from the country's low
level of development. Among the most important adjustment Issues ares (a)
inefficiencies In public sector resource mobilization and expenditures as
well as in public administration; (b) restoring the competitiveness of the
cotton sector; (c) a pegged exchange rate which has increased the volatility
of expt- earnings In local currency terms; (d) an Inefficlent public
enterprise sector; and (e) the deterioration of the banking sector.
11.       Public Finance.  Chad's public finances suffer from weak domestic
resource mobilization, insufficient current expenditures, inadequate
administration, and a severe debt service problem. The share of government
revenue in GDP, which already Was very small, has been further reduced by the
cotton crisis.  The challenge for the Goverament is to generate additional
budgetary revenues and to raise civil administration expenditures to a level
compatible with the requirements of the country's development strategy. In
recent years, the Government has financed only current expenditures, with
military spending and civil service salaries as the two biggest ittems
operating expenditures of development-oriented ministries have been slashed
to the point where they have been unable to carry out basic functions.
Inadequacies exist in tax administration, and budget execution is
characterized by unbalance reflected in the exceedingly small share devoted
to non-personnel oporating expenditures. Due to low budget revenues, Chad's
public sector debt service is too high to be sustainable over the medium
term.
12.       Future growth will require massive investment in Infrastructure
and human capital development.  The Government is completely reliant on
concessional external financing for its public investment program, as well
as for a large portion of the associated recurrent costs. In recent years,
public fixed capital formation has equaled about 10-122 of GDP. Domestic
savings are highly negative, and private foreign investment is very limited.
To use the available external resources effectively, the Government needs to
define sectoral strategies, while emphasizing domestic resource mobilization
through cost recovery schemes as well.
13.       Cotton Sector.  The Chadian economy depends heavily on the cotton
sector for export earnings, government revenues, and farmers' cash Income.
Fundamental policy reforms, which began under the Cotton Emergency Program,
are being deepened under the Cotton Restructuring Program (which is part of
the Financial Rehabilitation Program). These reforms are expected to help
the cotton sector restore its international competitiveness and reduce the
financial risks that result from fluctuations in the world market price.
COTONTCBAD9s performance already shows some encouraging signs, Including a
sharper-than-anticipated reduction in expenditures.  This, combined with
improved world cotton prices In 1987188 has led to a significant reduction
In COTONTCJAD's  operating deficit.    In addition,  measures  are being



- 5 -
lmplemented to strengthen extension and research in the sector and to Improve
productivity at the farm level. Pricing policy is being reformed and is
expected to contribute to a restoration of the financial viability of the
sector.    Finally,  the  Government  is  also  studying  possibilities  of
diversifying production with a view to reducing the predominance of the
cotton sector.
14.       Exchante Rate. As a member of the Central African Monetary Union,
Chad cannot unilaterally use the exchange rate to restore financial viability
in the cotton sector and to iMprove the country's overall balance of payments
position. The common currency of the Union, CFA franc, is fully convertible
into French francs at the rate of CFAF 50 - PF 1, guaranteed by France. The
Union also operates a common Central Bank (BEAC). In the last 15 years, US
dollar exchange rate fluctuations vis-a-vis the French franc played a
significant role in destabilizing Chad's export earnings. In the absence of
a flexible exchange rate policy, the need to step up efforts to bmprove the
efficiency of the cotton sector is even stronger.
15.       Public Enterprise Sector. The Chadian Government's use of public
enterprises and market regulations to control economic activities has been
fairly limited in the past. Many of the country's 40 public enterprises are
plagued with inefficient operations and investments and have poor financial
and  administrative  management.    The  accumulation  of  cross-arrears,
particularly between the Government and the public utilities, has also become
a major problem. The Chadian Government has no clearly-defined policy, legal
framework, or institutional mechanism for evaluating and monitoring public
enterprises.   In addition, the Government has established a number of
monopolies, mostly for public enterprises, and price controls on local
production and imports.  They have proven largely ineffective given the
permeability of Chad's border and the existence of large informal markets.
To the extent that these de Sure controls do create distortions and
inefficiencies, they will need to be progressively eliminated.
16.       Deterioration of the Banking Sector.  Since it resumed operations
after the 1979-82 war, the banking sector has been constrained in its
activities by two factors. First, a large share of bank assets have been
frozen since 1983 under a r neral bank moratorium. The moratorium was the
result of the forced clos8ng of the banking system In 1980 when the war
prevented further operations. Second, more than half of domestic credit has
been absorbed by COTONTCHAD and is In arrears. The banking system, thus, has
been unable to revolve funds lent previously and, under the rules of the
Monetary Union, is constrained in expanding credit.  The moratorium was
lifted at end 1988, and is not expected to lead to any major liquidity
problem. More fundamental issues regarding the structure and operational
efficiency of the banking system are being evaluated by the Government and
aid donors.
D.  Macroeconomic and Sectoral Adiustment Proar _
17.       Objectives.  In close cooperation with the Fund and the Bank, the
Government prepared a Policy Framework Paper 1987-90 (SecM87-547), which the
Executives Directors discussed on June 2, 1987. A second year PFP which



-6-
covers the period 1989-91 is currently being prepared. The overall objective
of Chad's adjustment program, as described in the PFP, Is to alleviate the
economy's structural constraints on growth while containing the external and
internal imbalances.  The program aims at restoring modest economic growth
and laying the foundation for more rapid growth in the 19909 by improving
resource use in the public and private sectors through appropriate policy
design and strengthened economic management. Policy improvements are needed
in public finance, agriculture, livestock, the public enterprise sector, the
banking system, and the industrial sector, to mention only the sectors that
have the most immediate impact on growth. The principal quantitative targets
of the adjustment program for the 1987-90 period are tot (a) achieve an
average GDP growth of 2X p.a. in real terms; (b) keep the rate of inflation
below 51; (c) contain the current account deficit (including grants) to 101
of GDP; and (d) limit the overall balance of payments deficit to an average
of SDR 2 million per annum, i.e. 101 of the 1985-86 deficits.
18.       The Ongoing Macroeconomic Adiustment Program.  The PFP objectives
in public finance have been translated into specific policy measures which
has been supported through a first-year IMF Structural Adjustment Facility
(July 1987-June 1988).   The program included measures to: (a) increase
revenues by introducing a new system for taxing petroleum consumption; (b)
restrain the growth of expenditures through the application of strict
budgetary controls, the integration of certain extra-budgetary revenues and
expenditures into general Treasury accounting and limiting rocruitment of
civil servants; (c) reduce domestic arrears and prevent the accumulation of
new ones; and (d) improve external debt management with respect to both
borrowing and debt service payment. The Government's financial operations
were consolidated by incorporating, for the first time, both current and
capital expenditures in the 1988 budget. The program also Includes measures
aimed at the financial rehabilitation of COTONTCHAD, measures to contain the
current account deficit, and measures to pursue cautious credit policies.
A second-year IZFISAF program covering 1989 is currently being prepared.
19.       The Financial Rehabilitation Program.   Public sector resource
management is one of the key tools for influencing economic activity in Chad.
Increasing efficiency in the mobilization and use of public sector resources
Is therefore a central component of the Financial Rehabilitation Program.
To this end, the Government's program includes: (a) reforms of the tax
system; (b) initial steps to restructure current expenditures; (c) a
rationalization of the public investment program; and (d) the formulation of
a public sector financing plan which reflects all these measures as well as
the cotton sector reform program described below.  This program aims at
making more efficient use of public sector resources, thereby allowing the
Government to extend the provision of basic services to the population.
20.       The Financial Rehabilitation Program includes a comprehensive plan
for restructuring the cotton sector and restoring its financial viability.
Building on the achievements of the Cotton Emergency Program, which reduced
costs and losses within the existing incentives system and institutional
framework, the Cotton Restructuring Program (1988/89-1990/91) is introducing
fundamental reforms in order to increase efficiency and reduce the financial
risks of the cotton industry.  As mentioned above, the plan has three



- 7 -
componentst (a) a program to increase COTONRTCHAD's efficiency, (b) a cotton
development program at the farm level, and (c) a reform of the producer
pricing system.
21.       Livestock Sector Ad1ustment Progrsm.  In addition to reforms In
public finance and in the cotton sector, the Governmont has also introduced
policy reforms in two other important sectors, livestock and transport.  In
the livestock sector, a policy reform program has been adopted which aims at
increasing the national livestock production on a sustainable basis and
improving livestock marketing. The export regime is being reformed through
the elimination of export quotas and of the export monopoly of a parastatal,
SOTERA; cost recovery for veterinary services will be introduced, and the
importation and distribution of veterinary products will be liberalized.
22.       Transport Sector Adjustment Proaram.   The Government has also
formulated a transport sector adjustment/investment strategy, which would be
supported by the proposed project.
II. MAIN ISSUES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport Sector
23.       Among the major characteristics of Chad's transport sector are ths
predominance of the highway subsector, which accounts for the bulk of
domestic and international traffic, and the limited volume of interurban
passenger traffic, which was seriously disrupted by war and is still
negligible. There is no railway, nor are there any feasible plans to build
one. Seasonal inland water transport is possible on a few river sections and
certain parts of Lake Chad, though navigability of wtterways has generally
been affected in recent years by erratic rainfall patterns. Because of this,
a meaningful strategy for Chad's transport sector must be focused on the
highway network and the trucking industry.
24.       Hithwav Subsector. Chad's highway network consists of about 7,300
km of classified roads (i.e. roads for whose maintenance the central or
regional governments are formally responsible) and 24,000 km of unclassifled
tracks in rural areas.  After many years of inadequate or non-existing
maintenance (particularly during the war), the highway network has
deteriorated considerably: as an illustration, only 30 km of paved roads are
still in good condition out of the 300 km that existed before the war.
Rehabilitation or spot repairs are presently being carried out on about 2,000
km of the high priority network, and a capacity to maintain these roads has
begun to materialize under projects financed by IDA (Cr. 1728-CD and Cr.
1901-CD) and USAID.   The ongoing and proposed Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Program (the ongoing 2,000 km Emergency Road Rehabilitation
Program plus the proposed 1,800 km Road Rehabilitation Program) will re-
establish communications between the country's principal cities and will
facilitate the flow of goods and people which is essential for economic
growth.
25.       Present road traffic levels are low, less than 100 vehicles per
day everywhere except in the immediate vicinity of the major urban centers,
and less than 10 vehicles per day on much of the road network. At present,



domestic traffic between the northern and southern parts of the country has
to pass through Cameroon over a distance of 440 km due to the lack of
functional road connections between the main centers of these regions during
the rainy season.
26.       Domestic freight transport officially handles about 265,000 tons
per yearl of this, 180,000 tons represents traffic internal to the relatively
small cotton zone and 25,000 tons the distribution of petroleum products.
Domestic food flows in a normal year are estimated at about 100,000 tons,
though it is not reflected in official statistics.
27.       Trucking Industry.  Road freight transport activities are highly
regulated: the Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT), originally
created as a private association of truckers, is now legally empowered to
exercise monopoly control on freight allocation and transport, and has also
been entrusted with the responsibility for collecting transport taxes on
behalf of the Treasury. Road transport tariffs charged by CTT are fixed by
the Government on the basis of cost data supplied by CTT itself.   The
combination of (a) high vehicle operating costs due to poor road conditions;
(b) inefficiencies and monopoly price determination in the trucking industry;
and (c) inefficiencies resulting from limited competition in the road
construction industry have resulted in hith transport costs and prices, which
are by far the most important issue in Chad's transport sector and constitute
a major obstacle to economic development and economic integration.
28.       Air Transport. There is one international airport in Chad, serving
the capital city of N'Djsmen., and a handful of smaller airports, of which
only those at Abeche, Sarh, Moundou, and Faya-Largeau are in acceptable
working condition. The Government holds a majority interest in AIR TCHAD,
the national airline, which runs domestic scheduled flights and international
charter  services.    Commercial  air  traffic  is  relatively  light,  but
international traffic has grown rapidly since 1982. In 1985, the N'Djamena
airport handled about 2,000 international flights involving about 36,000
passengers and 6,500 tons of air freight. Regular domestic air service Is
provided by AIR TCHAD between N'Djamens, Sahr, Moundou, Ab6cha, Mongo and,
recently, Fays-Largesu. Demand for domestic air transport is highly seasonal
(peaking during the rainy season when roads are impassable) and average load
factors are quite low.
29.       Institutional Framework.   The transport sector's institutional
framework includes the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTAC), the
Ministry of Public Works, (MTP) and the Office National des Routes (OPNAR).
MTAC is responsible for overall transport sector planning and policy
formulation, but has very limited staff and resources. Basic information
systems are being established with assistance from the Association under the
ongoing Highway Maintenance Project.   MTAC consists of a Department of
Surface Transport (DTS) and a Department of Civil Aviation (DAC). DTS is
responsible for regulating road transport, though some of these functions
have been delegated to CTT. DAC is formally responsible for controlling and
developing air transport, including AIR TCHAD. Management of meor airports
is contracted to ASECNA. MTP, through its Public Works DepartmeuLt, oversees
the planning and execution of road works and is also responsible for traffic



- 9 -
counts and the analysis of traffic flows.   The Association and PAC are
helping develop MTP's capacity for road planning, design and development,
evaluation of pre-investment studies for highway and supervision of work
performed by contractors.   OFNAR, an autonomous public agency under the
supervision of MTP, is responsible for the maintenance of the national
network; it receives extensive assistance from the Association and USAID.
30.       The Road Construction Industry.   Chad's domestic construction
industry is very limited in size and scope, and includes only about ten
contractors with some experience mainly in building construction, although
an additional number of small contractors carry out building repairs and
other minor works. However, local firms with the requisite experience to
undertake road rehabilitation or other major civil works are few and foreign-
owned. Government agreed under the Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901 CD)
to make arrangements to privatize the quarry operation, which was under the
responsibility of OFCA, a government-owned autonomous agency recently
liquidated, but the bulk of road maintenance is carried out by OFNAR under
force account which encourages inefficiency in resource use and high costs.
B.   High Traspsort Costs
31.       Some determinants of high transport costs in Chad cannot be
modified:
(a) the long distances within Chad and between Chad and the nearest
ocean ports; in particular, imports and exports have to be
transported over 1,700 km between N'Djamena and the Atlantic Ocean;
(b) the low density of population and economic activity, which
generates relatively modest traffic levels and rules out lower-
cost modes of overland freight transport (e.g., railway, whose
justification can only be predicated on large traffic volumes); and
(c)  Chad's topography and climate do not allow the development of low-
cost inland water transport.
32.       Other determinants of the high cost of transport can be modified,
and are addressed in the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy:
(a)  Poor condition of the road network. Chad's road network, which has
traditionally suffered from insufficient maintenance, seriously
deteriorated during the war period 1979-82. The bulk of the 7300
km of classified roads fell into disrepair, and certain parts of
the country are virtually inaccessible during the rainy season,
with a detrimental effect to economic development. In addition,
the poor condition of the road network leads to accelerated vehicle
wear and tear and, hence, high transport operating costs.
(b)  Monopoly-Induced Inefficiencies in the Trucking Industry.  The
monopoly  structure  of  the  trucking   industry  encourages
inefficiencies in the provision of transport services, hence high
costs that are passed on to consumers in addition to the monopoly



- 10 -
rent. Examples of these inefficiencies are inadequate Investment
decisions  (e.g.,  vehicle  acquisition)  that  may  lead  to
overcapacity, and mismatches in freight allocation that may result
in less than optimum quality of service.
(c)  High cost of road rehabilitation and maintenance.  Until recently,
the typical cost of road rehabilitation (excluding taxes) has been
about CFAF 20 million (US$67,000) per km of unpaved road, and about
CFAF 96 million (US$320,000) per km of paved road. These high
costs reflect a combination of factors: good-quality construction
materials are costly because they are scarce, they have to be
transported over long distances, and there is little scope for
competition In the quarrying industry; the limited size and skills
of the nascent local construction industry have led to excessive
use of force account by Government agencies for road maintenance;
and insufficient competition among foreign construction firms in
connection with road rehabilitation.
Id)  Poor Transport Investment Plannint and Proiect Implementation
Capacity. The three major institutions in the sector (MTAC, MTP
and OFRAR), have received in recent years technical assistance from
aid donors. While a measure of progress has already taken place,
effective institutional strengthening will require more time. 4TAC
still has very limited staff and resources with which to carry out
sound investment planning and policy formulation; the lack of clear
investment priorities has been partly responsible for lower-than-
desirable maintenance expenditures.   MTP and OFNAR are also
constrained by lack of resources and, particularly, by cumbersome
procurement  procedures  that  result  in  delays  in  project
Implementation.
(e) Required Constraints on Traffic Movement. Technical considerations
require that traffic on unpaved roads (i.e. the bulk of the highway
network) be interrupted after each rainfall until the road surface
has dried. This practice, which is required to reduce axle load
damage, tends to increase the generalized cost of transport and
contributes to higher demand for high-cost air travel during the
rainy season.
C. High Transnort Prices
33.       The present structure of the trucking industry results in monopoly
price determination and economic rent captured by truckers. Official road
freight rates are sanctioned by the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
on the basis of cost data supplied by CTT. Available evidence suggests that
Chad's regulated freight rates are significantly higher than those found in
other landlocked, Sahelian countriest for instance, the freight rate
applicable to transport on the paved or unpaved roads in the southern part
of the country is CFAF 44 (about USC15) per ton-km in Chad, compared to CFAF
25 (about USd8) per ton-km in Mali and Niger. Chad's annual transport bill,
i.e. the total amount truckers charge shippers, is estimated at about CFAF
9,000 million (about US$30 million), or 3.21 of GDP. The main determinants



- 11 -
of the high price of road transport are: (a) the high cost of building and
maintaining roads, which reflects in part the lack of competition in the road
construction industry, (b) the high cost of transport operations, which
reflects high vehicle operating costs and the inefficiencies allowed by CTT's
monopoly powers; and (c) over and above all costs, the economic rent captured
by truckers protected from competition under present regulations and
expressed in Government-sanctioned freight rates.
III. T=E TRANsPoRT SECTOR ADJUSTUENTIINVEST?ENT PROGRAM
34.       Two IDA operations are currently under implementation in Chad's
transport sector: the Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-CD, SDR 17.1
million, 1986) and the Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-CD, SDR 34.4
million, 1986). They have been designed to help the Government carry out its
post-war reconstruction effort and strengthen its road rehabilitation and
maintenance capability.   While focused on short-term needs, they have
provided a vehicle for dlalogue between the Government and the Association
in connection with major policy issues and longer-term options.   This
dialogue gained momentum and breadth at the February 1988 meeting of
Government officials and aid donors, during which the former presented, and
the latter agreed in principle to support a comprebensive Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Strategy 1/ consisting of a Transport Sector Investment
Plan 1988-93 and a package of major policy reforms. The Association has
played a significant role in coordinating foreign aid involvement in Chad's
road rehabilitation effort, which has become the centerpiece of donor
assistance in the transport sector.
35.       In the medium to long term, Chad's economic growth will continue
to depend essentially on agriculture and livestock (which together account
for nearly half of GDP), with the possible exception of the development of
petroleum reserves. The performance of the agriculture and livestoci- sectors
depends largely on climatic conditions, the cost of production and the cost
of distribution. The latter two are determined by several factors, among
which the cost and price of transporting inputs and outputs are particularly
important. Transport costs and prices in Chad are significantly higher than
in neighboring countries because of (a) high vehicle operating costs due to
poor road conditions; (b) inefficiencies and monopoly price determination in
the trucking industry; and (c) inefficiencies resulting from limited
competition in the road construction industry.
36.       To reduce the cost and price of transport, the Government has
formulated a Transport Sector Adiustment/Investment Strategv (TSAIS), which
would be supported by the proposed project.   The TSAIS consists of an
integrated packave of major policy reforms and investments whose main
objectives are:
1/  Republique du Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation,
Reunion de Suivi de la Table Ronde de Geneve de Decembre 85,
Secteur des Transports. Presentation de la Stratei$e et du
Proaramme de Develo,vement, 2 vols, Fevrier 1988.



- 12 -
(a) to rehabilitate the priority road network in order to reduce
vehicle operating costs;
(b)  to improve resource mobilization and allocation in the transport
sector in order to provide for the adpquate maintenance of the
rehabilitated network;
(c) to abolish the existing road transport monopoly and administered
tariffs in order to reduce the cost of trucking operations, pass
vehicle operating cost savinga on to shippers, and elicit a supply
response from all the productive sectors that require transport
inputs;
(d) to increase competition and the role of the private sector in the
provision of road construction materials and the road construction
industry in order to reduce the cost of road rehabilitation and
maintenance; and
(e) to reorganize and improve the public administration of the
transport  sector,  particularly  in  connection  with  policy
formulation, investment planning and programming, supervision, and
procurement.
37.       The Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy outlined above
is an integrated package since the investments and policy reforms included
in it must be carried out concurrently in order to yield the full extent of
potential  benefits.    Without  investments  in  road  rehabilitation  and
maintenance,  vehicle  operating  costs  would  remain  high.         Without
liberalization of the road transport industry, transport cost savings
realized by truckers would be captured by them as an economic rent instead
of being passed on to shippers and the economy at large. Without increased
competition in road construction, there would not be any cost savings in road
rehabilitation and maintenance and, as a result, more resources would be
needed to provide a given quantum of transport infrastructure. Given Chad's
landlocked situation, the reduction in the cost and price of transport supply
has a greater developmental impact than in countries where the incidence of
transport costs and prices is less pronounced. In particular, the creation
of a deregulazed trucking industry, free from administered tariffs, operating
on a rehabilitated and well-maintained road network is expected to reduce
significantly the cost and price of transport, to elicit a supply response
from the productive sectors of the economy and, thus, to act as a stimulant
to economic development.
A.   Rehabilitation of the Priority Road Network
38.       Chad's most important physical investment objective in the post-
war era is the rehabilitation of its transport infrastructure, especially its
7300 km of classified roads. In view of existing resource constraints, this
undertaking must be phased ovez a period of time. The Government's Transport
Sector Investment Plan 1988-93 aims at completing, by 1993, the
rehabilitation of a 3800-km priority road network. The priority road network



- 13 -
has been defined as the smallest subset of classified roads providing
adequate links between N'Djamena and major domestic centers of economic
activity, and between Chad and neighboring countries. The Association and
other aid donors actively support the rehabil'.itation of the priority road
network, about 2000 km of which have been (or are being) rehabilitated. The
remainder, or 1800 km, constitute the bulk of the physical investments under
the proposed Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project.
39.       The rehabilitation of the priority road network will be carried
out on the basis of adequate road desif.n standards which, given soil
conditions and traffic forecasts, should be consistent with the minimization
of discounted capital and recurrent costs over the lifetime of the road, and
should also take into account practical considerations such as the likelihood
that timely resources will be available for future road maintenance. On the
basis of a recent soil study and keeping in mind resource mobilization
constraints, the Government has prudently adopted basic standards of road
construction and maintenance that require a higher initial investment but
reduce the need for future maintenance.
B. Improved Resource Mobilization and Allocation in the Transport Sector
40.       rhe second objective of the Transport Sector AdjustmentlInvestment
Strategy is thue, once rehabilitated, priority roads should not fall back
into disrepair.   The large outlays required for the Road Rehabilitation
Program are only justifiable on the assumption that rehabilitated roads will
be adequately maintained during their lifetime. To attain this objective it
is necessary to improve resource mobilisation and resource allocation in the
transport sector, and to establish an effective road maintenance capacity in
the private and public sectors.
41.       Improved Resource Mobilization in the Trans2ort Sector.  The main
feature of Chad'a resource mobilization effort in the transport sector is the
Unified Tax on petroleum products (established on July 31, 1987). As an
interim measure, and awaiting the strengthening of the Ministry of Finance,
the petroleum tax is collected by OFNAR. Although the tax rate is high
(about 411 of official retail prices of gasoLine and diesel fuel), realized
tax revenues have been relatively low   On the one hand, a significant
portion of Chad's demand for gasoline and diesel fuel is met by illegal
imports which evade taxes and are unlikely to be brought under effective
control in the near future. On the other hand, some of the large parastatals
that consume legally-imported petroleum products (e.g. STEE, SONASUT and
COTONTCHAD) as well as the oil companies that import them, are in arrears on
their tax payments. As a result, of the CFAF 8.3 billion tax receivables
(about US$27 million) in 1988, CFAF 5.7 billion (US$19 million) or 62X have
been collected.
42.       Currently, domestic resources mobilized by the Government for the
sector and in particular for road maintenance are augmented with funds from
the Association, USAID and FED under ongoing operations. In the medium term,
however, funding will increasingly depend on the Government's improved
resource mobilization effort, for which it has at its disposal three separate
or combined alternatives:



- 14 -
(a) to imorove getroleum tax collection performance by strengthening
the central Goverment's authority vis-a-vis parastatals and oil
companies currently in arrears, consistent with a broader ongoing
effort to settle cross debts among Government agencies;
(b) to Increase petroleum tax rates, though the room for maneuver is
limited given that official retail prices of petroleum products in
Chad are already among the highest in Africa (US$3.50 and 3.25 per
gallon of gasoline and diesel fuel, respectively), and higher tax
rates may simply result in larger amounts of illegal imports; and
(e) to create new road user chartes that are as closely related to
costs as possible and that are easy to administer.
43.       It was agreed during appraisal that the Government will emphasize
iWproved petrol-um tax colleetion to cover the needs of routine road
maintenance for the rehabilitated priority road network.   Government is
committed to further improve collection performance and has assured IDA (as
stated in the Statement of Sector Policy) that adequate amounts from
petroleum tax will be made available to OFNAR to cover routine road
maintenance expenditures over the 1989-93 period.
44.       Given Chad$s overall domestic resource constraints, there are
realistic lImits to how much can be mobilized domestically. It is expected
that aid will continue to be required in the medium term to finance the
equipment component of routine maintenance (about CFAF 2.4 billion or US$8
million in 1993) and the entire oudlay required for periodic maintenance
(about CFAF 4.5 billion or US$15 million in 1993).
45.       Imoroved Resource Allocation in the Tran_port Sector. At present,
petroleum taxes account for about 18S of the Government's tax revenues,
though they would amount to 30S If fully collected. The Ministry of Finance
currently allocates 19.5% of taxes collected on gas and diesel fuel to OFNAR;
the rest goes to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, the Caisse de
Retraites, and to the Treasury. Accordingly, OFNAR would have been entitled
to about CFAF 590 million (about US$2 million) In 1987188. However, thanks
to the Importance attached by the Government to road maintenance, OFPAR
received about CFAF 790 million (about US$2.6 million), which is sufficient
to fund its present road maintenance effort. In other words, the Government
allocated to OFNAR some of the revenues that would have normally gone to the
Treasury.
46.       Over the next few years, OFNAR's resource requirements for routine
road maintenance are expected to grow rapidly on account of the increasing
length of the rehabilitated priority network. Annual routine maintenance
needs (including taxes but excluding equipment) are expected to grow from
about CFA? 700 million (about US$2.3 million) in 1988 to about CPAF 2.6
billion (about US$8.7 million) in 1993.  The c.mulative funding required
during the period 1989-93 is estimated at CFAF 6.5 billion (about US$21.7
million).   Present resource mobilization and allocation mechanisms are
inadequate to provide OFNAR with these funds from the petroleum taxes only.



- 1S -
Under existing arrangements and without significant policy reform, OFNAR's
cumulative resource gap would reach about CFAF 2.0 billion (about US$6.7
million) over the period 1989-93, which would need to be bridged with general
revenues f-om the Treasury, as indicated below (in CFAF million)l
Cumul.
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1989-93
Resources Required         833    705    936   1415   2608    6497
Expected Allocation
without reforms 1/       674    772    884   1012   1158    4500
Expected Gap
without reforms 1/       159    (67)    52    403   1450    1997
Expected Allocation
with reforms 21          797   1053   1366   1564   1790    6570
1/ This assumes no improvement in collection performance (55X) and no
increase in OFNAR's share of petroleum tax revenues (19.S2).
21 This assumes an increase in collection performance from the present
552 to 65% in 1989, 75% in 1990, and 852 in 1991-93.
47.       Under the provisions of the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Strategy, the Government will improve resource mobilization and allocation
mechanisms in the transport sector in orders (a) to fund OFNARs routine
maintenance expenditures; and (b) to meet OFNAR's cumulative resource gap
over the period 1989-1993, after which 0?NAR is expected to be self-
sufficient in the sense that its needs would be met without resorting to the
Government's general revenues. With assistance from the Association and the
International Monetary Fund, the Government has begun efforts to iVprove its
tax collection and its budgeting procedures 3nd practices. The Government
has agreed that, until these procedures and practices are operational, funds
allocated to road maintenance will be fed into a Road Fund administered by
OFNAR, and will be shown as a memo item in the Government's budget. The IMF
agrees with this proposal and has called for active monitoring of the
execution of the Road Fund during project implementation, the details of
which are covenanted in the Credit Agreement.
C.   Liberalization of the Road Transport Industr
48.       The road transport industry is characterized by a high degree of
regulation and lack of competition.   The Coop rative des TrawWorteurs
Tchadiens (CTT) is the cornerstone of this regulatory framework. In the
years following independence, CTT was created to help organize small Chadian
transporters to compete with Unitchadienne, a large foreign-owned transport
company.  Both entities operated under a system of international freight
allocation that was increasingly favorable to CTT and eventually forced
Unitchadienne to cease operations. In 1972, CTT assumed de facto control
over the international frelght assigned to Chadian transporters under
International Transit Agreements with neighboring countries. In 1976, CTT's
monopoly attributions were legally extended to domestic transport, with the



- 16 -
sole exception of companies --such as COTONTCHAD-- that could be authorized
by the Government to transport their own freight. Over time, this loophole
led to an increasing volume of freight transport outside the scope of CTT
(particularly petroleum products and, to a lesser extent, cotton and sugar).
In 1987, the Government passed legislation effectively closing the loophole
and giving CTT an absolute monopoly over all freight transport, international
and domestic.   Also in 1987, the Government dissolved CTT's Board of
Directors and established a Managing Committee whose members are appointed
by the Government, effectively placing CTT directly under its control.
49.       Since CTT is the road freight transport monopoly, it is legally
entitled to centralize all relevant supply and demand. On the one hand, all
truckers are required to become members of CTT and to indicate to CTT their
availability. On the other hand, all shippers are required to indicate their
transport needs to CTT. On the basis of information received by truckers and
shippers, CTT matches freight transport demand and supply according to
internal procedures that have been criticized by some CTT members (unhappy
with the distribution of available freight) and by some shippers
(disappointed with the quality of service).   CTT charges freight rates
established by the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (on the basis of
cost data supplied by CTT itself). It keeps a commission equivalent to 101
of invoiced amounts, which some members complain is too high for the services
provided by CTT.   CTT also collects transport taxes on behalf of the
Government (performance on this is not clear) and has occasionally received
significant subsidies from the Government for truck purchases. While some
small shippers and truckers may (illegally) negotiate freight transport
contracts outside the framework of the CTT, large shippers (including major
parastatals such as COTONTCHAD) have no alternative to the CTT.   The
existence of a captive market encourages Inefficiency (and high costs), and
the lack of competition among truckers allows them to capture an economic
rent (thus high prices). The financial status of CTT was reviewed by an
international auditor who produced a proforma statement for fiscal year 1988.
Inadequate accounting and irregularities had so far hidden the extent of
financial problems, and CTTvs current negative networth and its deficient
earning capacity leaves no alternative to its liquidation. The Government
took the first step in that direction by nominating a curator in March 1989
with a mandate to eventually close the company.
50.       The  third  component  of  the  Government's  Transport  Sector
Adjustment/Investment Strategy aims at not only reducing transport costs but
also passing the savings on to shippers and consumers of transported goods.
In the absence of the latter, the developmental impact of a transport cost
reduction vould be jeopardized. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to implement a major policy reform package focusing on the liberalization of
the road transport industry:
(a)  The abolition of CTT's monopolY attributes i.e., a return to free
contract negotiation between shippers and truckers and CTT's
liquidation. During negotiations, agreement was also reached that,
before Board Presentation, the Government will enact legislation
abolishing CTT*s monopoly power and will proceed to CTT's



- 17 -
liquidation as a condition of first tranche release (consistent
with (b) below).
(b)  The creation of a National Freight Bureau (BNF) operating under the
overall supervision of MTAC as a non-profit clearinghouse making
publicly available all demand and supply information provided by
shippers and truckers. On the basis of this information, shippers
and truckers will enter into freely-negotiated trsasport contracts,
which will be recorded by BNF for statistical purposes.   If
required by the Government, BNF will collect road transport taxes
on behalf of the Treasury.   During negotations, agreement was
reached that, before Board Presentation, the Government will enact
legislation creating BNF with a mandate, resources and staffing
satisfactory to the Association. The effective start-up of BNF
will be a condition of first tranche release (consistent with (a)
above). To accommodate the Government's concern to help the small
truckers adjust to the freight transport liberalization, it was
agreed that during a transitory perioo. of one year following the
effective elimination of CTT's monopoly, 25Z of the road freight
(in tlkm) would be negotiated by public advertising at BNF and on
a first-come-first-serve basis.
(c)  A two-stage liberalization of freight tariffs over a period of one
year. As a first step, obligatory fixed tariffs would be replaced
by tariff floors and ceilings and, as a second step, all Government
intervention in tariff determination ould be abolished.
51.       On the basis of available data on the structure of Chad's road
transport industry, it is expected that the proposed liberalization measures
will result In significant reductions in the cost and price of road
transport.
D. Increased Role of the Private Sector in the Road Construction Industry
52.       The fourth objective of the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Strategy is to reduce the cost of road construction and maintenance. To
attain it, the Government has decided to promote private sector participation
in road rehabilitation and maintenance and to liberalize the quarrying
industry.
53.       Promotion of the Private Sector  in Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance. In response to the situation described in paragraph 30, NTP
has agreed (a) to limit the growth of the public sector and encourage the
private sector; (b) to promote more extensive international competitive
bidding for road rehabilitation; (c) to adopt dated targets regarding an
agreed proportion of road maintenance work to be carried out by private
contractors; and (d) to implement a plan to assist small and medium-sized
contractors in connection with organization, management, financing and
training to. enable them to tndertake road maintenance. It is worth noting
that international competitive bidding conducted under ongoing projects
assisted by the Association has already resulted in a significant reduction
in the average cost of road rehabilitation (excluding taxes) from about CFAF



- 18 -
20 million (US$67,000) to about CPAF 12 million (US$40,000) per km of unpaved
road, and from about CPA? 96 million (US$320,000) to about CFAF 66 million
(US$220,000) per km of paved road. In addition, it is estimated that the
average annual cost of routine road maintenance (including taxes) under the
proposed project will be CFAF 883,000 (US$2,900) per km of unpaved road, and
CPAF 430,000 (US$1,400) per km of paved road.
54.       Liberalization  of  the  Quarryint  Industry.         Chad's  Road
Rehabilitation  Program  requires  large  amounts  of  scarce  construction
materials, which are mainly supplied by the Mani quarry. Until recently, all
quarries were managed by the Office National des Carri;res (OFCA), which
reports to the Ministry of Public Works. This has led to inefficiency in the
quarrying industry and to high prices of construction materials. Under the
provisions of the recently-approved Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-
CD), the Government has liquidated OFCA and made some arrangements, leading
to the private operation of the Mani quarry, by assigning an operating
concession to a private company. Effective constitution of a mixed company
with a majority of private shareholders to operate the Mani quarry will be
a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
E.   Imrovinz the Public              of the Transport Sector
55.       The fifth objective of the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Strategy is to improve the public administration of the transport sector by
(i) reorganiaing the sector institutions to clarify the responsibilities
within and between the various entities concerned and to increase their
efficiencies;   (ii)  imprwving  administrative  procedures;   and  (iii)
restructuring the current expenditures in the sector.
56.       Institutional  reorganization.    The  three major  institutions
concerned by the reorganization are MTAC, MTP and OFNAR:
-    Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTAC). At present, MTAC
suffers from inadequate organization, inadequate staffing, and the fact that
some transport-related responsibilities are formally assigned to other
Ministries.  The Government agrees that MTAC's responsibilities need to be
clarified. During negotiations Government agreed: (a) to adopt, by Board
Presentation, legal documents concerning MTAC's reorganization; and (b) to
implement MTAC's reorganization and staffing according to an agreed-upon
schedule. The proposed operation would also provide training for key MTAC
staff.
-    Ministry of Public Works, (MTP).  The Government is aware that
resource constraints, inadequate staffing and lengthy procurement procedures
must be overcome to enable MTP to carry out efficiently the programning,
contracting and monitoring of the rehabilitation of the priority road
network.  To Improve MTP's Implementation capacity, the Government will
undertake a major reorganization that will include, among other things: (a)
the creation of a Project Management Unit responsible for the coordination
of the overall TSAIP under the tutelage of MTP and MTAC; (b) the nomination
of key senior staff to head the new services; (c) the establishment of a
Procurement Unit (Bureau de Marches) within MTP, whose main responsibility



- 19 -
will be to conduct the technical review and hasten the administrative aspects
of procurement In connection with road rehabilitation; and (d) the
strengthening of the National Laboratory of Public Works and Housing (LNBTP)
to enable it to gather and analyse relevant data, and provide guidance
regarding  the  adequacy  of  road  design  standards  in  Chad.    During
negotiations, Government agreed to adopt before Board Presentation the legal
documents creating the Project Management Unit and the Procurement Unit. The
nomination of the Project Coordinator will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
-    Office National des Routes (OFNAR). Following the recommendations
of an IDA-financed study of the reorganization of OFNAR, the Government has
decided to improve OFKAR's road maintenance programming, execution and
monitoring functions. OFNAR's new organization will include a separation of
its three main functions: works planning and supervis4ion equipment
management; and financial planning and management.  In particular, the Road
Fund within OFNAR will be strengthened and provided with managerial autonomy
to enable it to perform its functions adequately.   During negotiations
Government agreed to adopt before Board Presentation the legal documents
concerning OFNAR's reorganization and staffing.
57.       Improvement of administrative procedures.  At present, lengthy
administrative procedures including procurement and decision-making processes
in particular have been identified as a major constraint in project imple-
mentation. In connection with the proposed institutional reorganization,
the project aims at modifying procurement procedures and contracts approval
and award methods employed in road rehabilitation, with a view to increasing
competition and reducing delays.
58.       Restructurint of current expenditures in the sector.  The overall
government current expenditures issue is being addressed under the FRC. The
most significant issue in the allocation of Government current expenditures
is the inadequate funding of the non-personnel operating budget, i.e.
expenditures for materials and office supplies have been given an exceedingly
small share of current expenditures. While the FRC is trying to reform the
Government's current expenditure system at macro level, the TSAIP aims at
deepening this approach in the transport sector. To attain this objective,
the TSAIP will provide assistance:
(a) to carry out a more detailed analysis of the requirements of
current expenditures for MTP, MTAC and OFNAR and to review the
relative shares of personnel and non-personnel expenditures; and
(b) to finance through the counterpart funds provided by the quick-
disbursing component the incremental non-personnel expenditures
required to support the implementation of the agreed-upon
investment program and administrative restructuring in the
transport sector during the next three years. This will complement
the program already initiated under the FRC in support of
development-oriented Ministries (which include Transport and Public
Works Ministries) and adequate non-personnel current expenditures
allocation for MTP and MTAC will be reviewed in the context of
proposed tranche releases.



- 20 -
59.       The preparation of the Transport Sector Adjust nt/Investment
Strategy (with technical assistance financed by the Association) provided
NTP and MTAC with a major opportunity to begin strengthening their investment
Filanning and policv  formulation capability.    It also  illustrated the
Government's commitment to adopt multi-year investment planning and to
utilize economic criteria for transport project selection. Improvements in
investment planning at both MTP and MTAC will not come about immediately and,
in the meantime, the Government has agreed that medium-term transport sector
investments will be limited to those already included in the Transport Sector
Investment Plan 1988-93.   During negotiations Government agreeds (a) to
discuss with the Association, by June 30 every year, any proposed changes in
the timing and composition of the Investment Program; and (b) to submit to
the Association, by June 30 every year, an implementation report concerning
investments executed during the previous year.
60.       AIR TCHAD. AIR TCHAD operates scheduled services between N'Djamena
and the major provincial capitals, as well as freight and passenger charter
flights between N'Djamena and selected foreign destinations (mainly Marseille
and Mecca). Although some domestic flights operate at a loss, the Government
attaches great Importance to them during the current post-war reconstruction
and unification period. AIR TCHAD is co-owned by Government (97.8Z) and the
French  airline UTA  (2.2Z).    Despite  the  extensive  support  given by
Government, starting with the transfer free of charge of two planes, and the
free technical assistance provided by the French, AIR TCHAD is virtually
bankrupt. A recent audit report disclosed an operating deficit of CFAF 684
million (US$2.3 million) In 1988, and a negative equity of CFAF 223 million
(US$0.7 million).
61.       The Government's Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy
aims to develop air trasport as a complement to road transport, particularly
to serve remote destinations and during the rainy season when many roads are
Impracticable. In other words, air transport is justified only where it is
the most economic mode which, in a no-alternative situation, Implies that
judgement be made on the marginal value of air transport which can hardly be
made on economic criteria alone. In that particular context, it was agreed
during negotiations that a study of AIR TCHAD be undertaken, followed by the
preparation of an Action Plan to be subsequently agreed with IDA and signed
by the Government and AIR TCHAD as a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Implementation of this Plan will be scheduled over three years, with Interim
targets to be met as conditions of second and third tranche release. The
Plan will provide for Government to compensate AIR TCHAD for losses incurred
in supplying exclusive transport to isolated areas. Cost accounting will be
introduced and tailored to monitoring the Implementation of the Plan.
F.  The Transuort Sector Adlustment/Investment Strategy In the Context of
the Ontolin Macroeconomic Adjustment Proaram
62.       The  Transport  Sector  Adjustment/Investment  Strategy  (TSAIS)
described in the previous section Is the vehicle by means of which the
ongoing macroeconomic adjustment program would be Implemented at the



- 21 -
transport sector level.  It baa been designed to support and extend the
objectives of the adjustment programs
(a) Transuort sector Investment reouirements under the 1988-93 plan
amount to about CMAF 97 billion (US$320 million) during the period,
equivalent to about CFAF 16 billion (US$53 million) per annum.
This is consistent with the 292 investment share provided for
transport under the public investment program. During the first
three years of the period, this share is somewhat larger,
reflecting the fact that "arly investments in infrastructure are
required to increase output in other sectors of the economy.
(b)  The adjustment program's call for Increased efficiency in resource
utilization has been adopted in the Transport Sector Investment
Plan 1988-93, itself the result of careful screening of proposed
projects.
(c) The adjustment program aima at achieving a higher GDP growth rate.
In the context of the Trasport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Strategy, the expected reduction in vehicle wear and tear resulting
from road rehabilitation and greater operational efficiency
(encouraged by greater competition among truckers) could lead to
a 202 reduction in the cost of road transport services. This would
amount to annual savings of about CFAF 1.6 billion (US$5.3
million), equivalent to about 0.61 of GDP, which will help meet the
adjustment program's GDP growth target rate.
(d) The adjustment program aims at containing the rate of Inflation.
Under the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy, greater
competition among truckers is expected to curtail their ability to
capture economic rent and will force them to pass at least a
portion of cost savings on to shippers by means of reduced freight
rates. A reduction In transport prices would havo a dampening
effect on inflation.
(e) The adjustment program aims at reducing the fiscal deflect. The
Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy Includes a
commitment on the part of Government to increase resource
mobilization in the transport sector to ensure that incremental
road maintenance expenditures will be covered by incremental
resource mobilization.   Therefore, the sector strategy will be
neutral vis-a-vis the fiscal deficit.
(f) The adjustment program aims at limiting Chad's balance of payments
deficit. Two of the objectives of the Financial Rehabilitation
Credit is to Improve COTONTCHAD's financial position and increase
its export competitiveness. The Transport Sector Adjustment/Inves-
tment Strategy supports both objectives to the extent that, through
expected transport price reductions, it will contribute to the
financial viability of COTONTCHAD and to the relative competitive-
ness of Chadian cotton in foreign markets.



- 22 -
63.       The rehabilitation of the priority road network proposed under the
TSAIS is expected to have a significant impact on food security: even in
years of normal rainfall when Chad achieves cereal self-sufficiency, the
spatial patterns of cereal production and consumption, coupled at present
with an extremely poor transport network, result in localized disequilibria
of food supply and demand, leading to food surpluses in some regions and food
shortages in others. The rehabilitated priority network would also be very
beneficial if and when food aid is required, by reducing relevant
distribution costs and delays.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Prolect Obiectives
64.       The proposed Transport Sector/Adjustment Investment Project (TSAIP)
which is an integrated package of physical investment and major policy
reforms aimed at furthering within the transport sector, the objectives of
the ongoing macroecconomic adjustment program by: (i) reducing the cost and
price of transport in Chad, (ii) consolidating progress initiated under two
ongoing investment operations in the Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-
CD) and the Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-CD).
S.   Prolect Descriution
65.       The proposed project would assist: (a) the rehabilitation of the
priority road network, in order to reduce the vehicle operating costs; (b)
Improvements in resource mobilization and allocation in the transport sector
in order to secure adequate maintenance of the rehabilitated network; (c) the
abolition of the existing road transport monopoly and administered tariffs
In order to reduce the cost of trucking operations, pass vehicle operating
cost savings on to shippers, and elicit a supply response from the productive
sectors of the economy; (d) increased competition and greater role of the
private sector in the road construction industry; and (e) strengthening of
the public administration of the transport sector, particularly in connection
with policy formulation, investment planning and programming, supervision and
procurement.
66.       The main investment components of the proposed TSAIP have been
drawn from the donor-supported Transport Sector Investment Plan 1988-93.
(a) Rehabilitation of 1800 km of priority roads, which would complete
the rehabilitation of the 3800 km priority network including the
completion of the Djermaya-Dandi road partially financed by USAID,
and routine maintenance of the entire priority network including
bridge repairs and construction;
(b) Rehabilitation of about 14 km of urban roads in N'Djamena;
(c)  Construction and/or rehabilitation and equipment of building for
MTP, MTAC, DRTP;



- 23 -
(d) Equipment and spare parts for routine road maintenane , road
transports and ferry services;
(e) Civil works at secondary airports, construction of workshops and
office facilities;
(f) Minor safety equipment for airports;
(g) Consulting services for audits, civil works design and supervision,
soil research studies and testing;
(h) Technical assistance for strengthening the Ministry of Public
Works, the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, OFNAR and
LNBTP, including training in management, planning, finance,
operations and works supervision;
(i) Technical assistance to BNF, small truckers and small and medium
construction contractors; and
(j) Technical assistance to AIR TCHAD.
C. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proarm
67.       The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program which will be
limited to the 3,800 km priority road network will be carried out on the
basis of adeoate road design standards which given soil conditions and
traffic, and the scarcity of resources for future road maintenance, have been
chosen to require a higher initial investment but aimed at reducing future
maintenance costs. The road links to be rehabilitated and the corrosponding
standards are listed in Annex 5-1. During negotiations, Government agreed
(a) to adopt aligrment construction standard and design acceptable to the
Association for the Bongor-Moundou road; and (b) confirmed that the
Government of Italy will finance the construction of the Baga-Sola Massakory-
Massaguet road with construction standards and design acceptable for the
Association.
D. Air TransDort Infrastructure Rehabilitation
68.       The Chad Air Transport Investment Program is designed to complement
the Road Rehabilitation Program and is lVmited to the rehabilitation of the
priority air transport infrastructure. It will support a five-year program
to re-establish radio communications, rehabilitate ground facilities, install
basic safety equipment and navigational aids and rehabilitate the airstrips
of the selected secondary airports of Sarh, Moundou, Abecho, Am TIman, Bol
and Mao.
S. Institutional Strenatheninn
69.       One of the most important objectives of the Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project is to start within the trasport sector a first
step of global civil service reform by Improving the public institutions in
the sector.   Government capacity to devise and  Implement appropriate



- 24 -
transport sector policies and to plan and manage the development of transport
infrastructure, requires considerable strengthening. The project will assist
the Government through technical assistance, training, consulting services
to Increase the efficiency of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation,
the Ministry of Public Works, the Office National des Routes and AIR TCHAD.
Under the proposed project, the Institutions Strengthening Program for MTP,
MTAC and agencies under their tutelage will represent about 700 m/m.  To
compensate for the lack of well-trained and skilled staff, it was agreed with
the Government that about 500 m/m of the technical assistance program will
consist of expatriate experts in line positions for the first three years of
the project, while a large scale training program for the overall staff (from
laborers to managers) will be undertaken to enable the Government to replace
by Chadian nationals all the expatriates in line positions by 1992.
70.       An institutional reorganization of these two Ministries will be
carried out as a condition of Board Presentation, with the aim of clarifying
among other things, the responsibilities within and between the various
entities concerned.   This reorganization would also help lmproving MTP's
Implementation capacity bys
(a) the creation of Project Management Unit responsible for road
rehabilitation within MTP;
(b) the modification of procurement procedures employed in road
rehabilitation with a view to increasing efficiency, competition
and reducing delays;
(c) the establishment of a Procurement Unit (Bureau des Match6s) within
MTP.
The project will include also a reorganization of OFNAR to enable
it to perform adequately all activities related to road maintenance ranging
from works planning and execution by force account to supervision of works
done by private contractors. The institutional strengthening would includes
-    technical  assistance  and  training  for MTP,  OFNAR,  the
Procurement unit, and the Project Management Unit;
-    technical assistance and training for MTAC, BNF, and AIR TCHAD
and small truckers;
-    technical assistance for the promotion of small contractors
to enable them to increase their participation in the road
construction industry.
P. Prolect Cost and FPiameina
71.       The table below shows the investment and road routine maintenance
costs as well as the quick-disbursing component of US$20 million. A detailed
cost estimate table is found in Annex 1. Total project cost net of taxes and
duties for the overall five-year program is estimated at US$180 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component equivalent to US$153.8



- 25 -
milion and a local cost component of US$26.2 million equivalent. During
negotiations, the cost estimates were confirmed by the Government.



- 26 -
Samerw ProJec Cost Eotlmate and Flnwaling Plan
(et or Tax" and Duti")
-----      8   si111lin-
ProJect CoMoonenta                                    Foreign        Local        Total
A.    INESTMENTS
1.  COvwl Works
a.    Bul dings
Rhabbi I ltation A Construction
of IP/TITAC                                4.2          6.2          4.4
Rehabilitation of DAC building              6.8          0.0          0.8
b.    Road reiibilitation by contract             45.7           1.9         47.6
c.    Rnod rhabilitation    f fore account         11.B          0.2         11.5
d.    Urban roads construction                      8.0          0.4          3.4
*.    Air tran"port lntrstructure                  11.C          0.3         11.7
f.    Airports .uilpnta                            0.6           6.5          1 .3
2.  Minlstry of Public Work,
a.    Technical assistance
To HIP                                      2.9                       2.9
To project mnagemet unit                    1.5                        1.5
To O                                       10.6                      10.6
To ENTP and LNBITP                          0.6                       0.6
b.    Training and scholarship to
T? and OFIAR                                3.0                       3.o
c.    Studies, civil works super vision
A audit*, gneral studies, road
research and audits                         2.0                       2.0
Roed engineering studles                     1.1                       1.1
CiviI works supervision                      3.5          6.1          8.6
S.   Minlstry of Tranagort & Civil Aviation
a.    Technical asistonce
To MTAC, BNe   PR                           2.?          0.1          2.8
To AIR TCHAD                                1.6                       1.5
b.    Training and scholarship                     1.3                        1.8
c.    Studies A audits                             0.8                        0.8
4.   Onratlna Cos t
a.   WEN                                           6.3           .1           6.4
b.    Project management unit                      0.4          0.1           06.5
5.   Contingencies
a.    Physical contingencies                       7.1           6.4          7.4
b.   Price contingencies                          12.6           6.5         18.1
S.    SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT
Budget Support Related to
Sectoral Adjustment                               20.0                      20.6
C.    ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                                66.6         21.7         21.7
Total                                     t18.8          26.2        186.6
Financtis Pl n
(USSl iI ion  quflvalent)
AtDf   BDEAC   CCCE    PAC   FED   IDA    OPEC    RFA    UNDP  USAID        GovOrMOent         Total
11.8   16.6    18.1    s.s   4.6   60.0   4.6    22.7    0.6    28.6           26.2            166.6



- 27 -
72.       Estimated costs for civil works are based on unit prices for recent
contracts in Chad adjusted to December 1988, and on partial engineering
studies for the first-year program of works. The estimated cost of the five-
year Road Routine Maintenancit Program is based on actual unit prices
experienced under the nearly completed Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-
CD). The technical assistance cost estimates are based on recent rates for
consulting services in Chad.  OPNAR's cumulative needs for routine road
maintenance for 1989-93 are estimated at about CFAF 6.5 billion (US$21.7
million). The Government confirmed during negotiations that it is prepared
to provide OFNAR with the above-mentioned resources through earmarking of
petroleum taxes, according to the following schedule:
Cumul.
1989     1990     1991    1J92      1993     1989-93
(ClAP million)     900     1100     1300     1500     1700      6500
(US$ million)      3.0      3.7      4.3      5.0      5.7      21.7
73.       Physical contingencies of 152 of base costs have been allowed on
all capital items.   Contingency allowances for price escalation were
calculated according to the planned implementation schedule based on an
annual average rate of 52.
74.       External financing of the project will amount to US$153.8 million
equivalent or 852 of total costs, with the Government financing the remaining
US$26.2 million equivalent or 152.   Currently,  external financing is
substantially assured for the required amount.  IDA financing represents
US$60.0 million or 332 of the total.   Other external financing will be
provided by AFDF (US$11.3 million equivalent essentially for civil works);
CCCE (US$13.1 million equivalent for airport infrastructure); FAC (US$3.3
million equivalent for technical assistance, training and studies); BDEAC
(US$10.6 million equivalent for civil works and consulting services for works
supervision); FED (US$4.8 million equivalent for civil works); OPEC (US$4.5
million for civil works); RFA (US$22.7 million equivalent for civil works,
technical assistance and studies); UNDP (US$0.5 million) for technical
assistance and training); and USAID (US$23 million for operating costs for
routine maintenance, road equipment and spare parts and technical
assistance). The US$20 million quick-disbursing component will be financed
by IDA.
G.   Prolect Implementation
75.       The Project will be implemented by MTP, MTAC and the concerned
agencies under their tutelage. Although considerable progress has been made
under the two ongoing highway projects, Chadian institutions in the transport
sector are still fragile, and therefore this project would be Implemented
largely through technical assistance, consultants and contractors. A Project
Management Unit headed by a high level Chadian technician will coordinate the
efforts of the various implementing agencies and will provide them with
technical support for all issues related to the project implementation, i.e.



- 28 -
procurement procedures, contracting, accounting, reporting and work
supervision.
76.       The Road Rehabilitation Component  and all related technical
assistance and consulting services will be carried out under the responsility
of MTP and its agencies OFNAR, DTP and LNBTP. The Road and Air Transport
Component and all related technical assistance and consulting services will
be carried out under the responsibility of MTAC and its agencies, DOTAC, DAC,
DTS, DEP, BNF, and AIR TCHAD.
77.       In light of the promotion of the domestic construction industry,
the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program will be Increasingly executed
by private sector. Government commitment to increase the participation of
the private sector road maintenance to reach 202 of total routine maintenance
costs in 1990, 302 In 1991, 402 in 1992 and 501 in 1993 of tranche release
is confirmed in the Statement of Sector Policy.  The actual implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 1, Table 1.  During negotiations, Government
confirmed its agreement to this Implementation schedule. To facilitate the
implementation of the project, detailed Action Plans related to road
maintenance, procurement procedures, private sector promotion and training
have been set up.   During negotiations, Government confirmed also its
commitment to carry out these Action Plans attached to the Statement of
Sector Policy.
h. Procurcment
78.       Under the quick-disbursing component of the Credit both public and
private sector imports would be eligible for financing.   Procurement
procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring
efficiency and accountability in the process. Imports by Government would
follow international competitive bidding for amounts exceeding US$1,000,000
equivalent. Imports by private sector would follow international competitive
bidding for amounts exceeding US$2,000,000 equivalent. For amounts below
US$1,000,000, Government would follow public procurement procedures, which
have been reviewed and are acceptable and would seek three price quotations
from a list of at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries. For amounts below US$2,000,000 private sector purchases would
follow establlshed commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations
from at least two eligible suppliers from at least two different countries
should be sought.   Verification of imports has been limited to physical
inspection by the Customs Service.   However,  to improve the system,
Government is considering possibilities to engage expert agencies to certify
goc   in respect of quality, quantity and price of shipments.
79.       Under the investment component, the procurement of civil works
contracts for road rehabilitation and building construction financed by other
donors will follow their specific procedures and those financed by IDA will
be carried under ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement.
Technical assistance and consulting services financed by IDA will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Road maintenance works and road
building materials financed by IDA, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$300,000 may be awarded under contracts on the basis of



- 29 -
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. The road rehabilitation works financed by
IDA, not carried out by contracts, will be performed by force account by
OFNAR brigades and will concern only works done in remote areas where safety
conditions will likely not permit intervention of foreign contractors.
Government agreed during negotiations that these force account operation will
adopt commercial-based cost accounting system and that disbursement will be
made against actual quantities of works completed. Office equipment may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations sollicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
All procurement decisions, the estimated costs of which exceed $200,000 would
be subject to IDA's prior review.   Procurement arrangements under IDA
financing are summarized in the table below:



- 30 -
8s.                                   Procurement Table
(USS mIIion) t/
Project Element                                          Procurement Method
ICe     LC4   rorce lecouns  uthr V    Total
A.    Investment Componentv                                                                    -
1.    Bullding Construction                4.8      1.4                                5.7
2.    Road Work:                            (4.0)    (1.2)                             (5.2)
*.    Rehabiltation                                       18.2                   18.2
by Force Account                                    (8.0)                 (8.0)
b.    RehabilItation by
Contract Including              8.4                             57.9      81.8
road strip te.te               (8.2)                                      (8.2)
c.    Urban Road.                    9.4                                         9.4
Construction                   (9.2)                                      (9.2)
8.    Airports Infrastructures
and Equipments                                                         15.4       1.4
4.    Technical Assistance,
Consulting Servicee
and Training
a.    Technical Assistance
for Institutions
Strengthening (ITP,
MTAC, OFNAR  LNBTP,
DAC, ADR TC4AD)                                                 22.5      22.5
and Training                                                     (156.)    (15.6)
b.    Consulting Services
for Engitnering and
Transport Studies,
Civil Works Supervision
and Audits                                                      16.89     10.80
(8.8)     (8.0)
S.   Routine Maintenance                                   6.9                     14.8      21.7
C.   G                                             -nra     -           -merts     20.0      20.0
TOTAL                                      17.1     8.8         18.2         141.4    189.0
TOTAL IDA                                  (18.4)   (1.2)       (8.0)        (89.4)    (89.6)
/    Figures In parenthesis Indicate IDA allocation
V     Figures othor than IDA allocatlons Indicte  In this column concern other donore
financing Itmem whleh follow specific procedures applying for "eah donor.



- 31 -
I. Disbursements and Tranche Release
81.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
Items                     IDA Credit Disbursement       Z of expend-
Amount of Credit         itures to be
Allocated (USS)            financed
1.   Civil Works                            17,900,000                 952
2.   Consulting Services, Training
and Technical Assistance for HTP      15,000,000                 1OOS
3.   Consulting Services, Training and
Technical Assistance for MTAC          4,000,000                 1002
4.   Operating costs                          700,000                  802
5.   Unallocated                            2,400,000
6.   Imports (Adjustment Component)         20.000.000                100X
60,000,000
82.       The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1993.
The estimated schedule of disbursements shown in Annex 3, Table 1 assumes
that the Credit would become effective by September 1989.   The IDA
participation rates for each category and the disbursement schedule were
discussed with the Government and confirmed during negotiations.
83.       The quick-disbursing component would be released in three tranches
designed to support the Government's efforts in connection with the
liberalization of the road transport industry and phased in with performance
on resource mobilization and allocation in the transport sector.
(a) The first tranche of US$6 million equivalent would be disbursed
following: (i) the effective abolition of the monopolv of the
Cooxerative des Transporteurs Tchadiens. il) the ayiointment of
the liquidator for CTT. iii) the actual start-up of the National
Freight Bureau (BNF) with a satisfactory mandate, the substitution
of tariff floors and ceilings for present fixed obliaatory tariffs,
iv) the nomination of the Project Coordinator, v) the adoption of
an Action Plan for AIR TCHAD financial rehabilitation, vi) the
adoption of simplified procurement procedures and contract award,
vii) the creation of a mixed company to operate the Mani Quarry,
and viii) the allocation of CFAF 900 million to OFNAR in the 1989
Loi des Finances and the confirmation from the Government that
CFAF 1,100 million will be allocated to OFNAR in the 1990 Loi des
Finances for routine road maintenance.
(b) The second tranche of US$8.0 million would be released following:
i) satisfactory review of the complete liberalization of transport
prices (abolition of tariffs floors and ceilings), and freight



- 32 -
allocation, IL) the achievement of a petroleum tax collection
performance of at least 65X in 1989, iii) CFAF 900 million have
been actually spent by OFNAR for routine road maintenance in 1989,
CFAF 1,100 million have been allocated to OFNAR in the 1990 Loi des
Finances for routine road maintenance, the confirmation from the
Government that CFAF 1,300 million will be allocated to OFNAR in
the 1991 Loi des Finances for routine road maintenance, iv) the
first phase of AIR TCHAD's restructuring plan has been completed,
and v) agreement between the Government and the Association on the
portion of the 1989-93 Transport Sector Investment Program to be
carried out in 1990-91.
(c) The third tranche of US$6.0 million would be released following the
achievement of a petroleum tax collection performance of at least
75Z in 1990, CFAF 1,100 have been actually spent by OFNAR for
routine road maintenance in 1990, CFAF 1,300 million have been
allocated to OFNAR in the 1991 Loi des Finances for routine road
maintenance, the confirmation from Government that CFAF 1,500
million will be allocated to OFNAR in 1992 Loi des Finances for
routine road maintenance, the completion of the second phase of AIR
TCRAD's restructuring plan, and agreement between the Government
and the Association on the portion of the 1989-93 Transport Sector
Investment Program to be carried out in 1991-92.
It is expected that release conditions associated with the three
tranches will be met by July 1, 1989, July 1, 1990 and July 1, 1991
respectively.   The tranche release conditions were confirmed with the
Government during negotiations. After the release of the third tranche,
continued adequate petroleum tax collection performance and funding of OFNAR
will be subject of annual review. This was confirmed during negotiations.
84.       The quick-disbursing component would reimburse 100S of the foreign
exchange cost of general imports, subject to a negative list, on the basis
of evidence that they were imported and paid for after appraisal.
Expenditures for goods procured under Invoices for US$5,000 equivalent or
less would not be eligible for financing out of credit proceeds.   Both
private and public sector imports would be eligible for financing.  To
facilitate disbursement, a special account would be established on behalf of
the Treasury at a local commercial bank and the documentation for
disbursement prepared by the Unit established under the FRC.   During
negotiations, Government selected BTCD as the commercial bank which will
maintain the Special Account.   BEAC has been selected to prepare all
supporting documentation.   The commercial bank would be responsible for
maintaining the credit accounts. An initial deposit of US$1.5 million will
be deposited in the Special Account for the quick-disbursing component once
the conditione for release of the first tranche have been fulfilled. This
account would be replenished regularly up to the limit of the first tranche
on the basis of fully documented reimbursement applications for amounts In
excess of US$1 million and on the basis of statements of expenditures under
that amount.   The minimum amount of replenishment applications would be
US$300,000. Another Special Account of $1 million would be opened for the
investment project in BTCD; The Government will indicate on the statement



- 33 -
of expenditures the nature and origin of the goods as well as the payment
date, and will maintain all relevant supporting documentation (invoices,
Import certificates, and evidence of payment) for review by supervision
missions.
A condition of disbursement of all components financed by IDA would
be a satisfactory review of progress made on the implementation of the policy
reform measures included in the tranche release conditions.   Should any
tranche not be released, disbursements on all components would be suspended.
J.   Reporting and Auditint
85.       With the help of the concerned technical Directorates and their
consultants, the Project Management Unit will prepare quarterly reports on
project implementation and expenditures which will also be submitted to the
Association, together with key indicators for &onitoring progress of the
Project as well as financial and operational results of the envisaged
reforms. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) All project components including the Road Fund will be audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Associationt and
(b) The audit report should be made available not later than June 30
of each year.   Records and accounts in relation to the SOE
operations will be subject to a separate audit, the satisfactory
conclusion of which is one condition for replenishment of the
Special Account. The auditor's reports will include an opinion on
the operation of the Special Account and a separate specific
reference to the use of the Statement of Expenditures.
K.   Project Justification
86.       The proposed Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project (TSAIP)
would support the Implementation of the Transport Sector Adjustment/Invest-
ment Strategy (TSAIS) and the ongoing macroeconomic adjustment program. The
TSAIS is an integrated package of investments and major sector policy reforms
whose main objectives are: (a) to rehabilitate the priority road network in
order to reduce vehicle operating costsa (b) to improve resource mobilization
and allocation in the transport sector in order to secure future adequate
road maintenance; (c) to abolish the existing road transport monopoly and the
system of administered tariffs in order to reduce inefficiencies in transport
services, pass transport cost savings on to shippers, and elicit a supply
response from productive sectors; (d) to increase competition and encourage
a greater role to the private sector in the road construction industry in
order to reduce the cost of road rehabilitation and maintenance; and (e)
improve the public administration of the transport sector.
87.       The broad justification of the proposed TSAIP lies in the fact
that it will help attain some of the objectives of the ongoing macroeconomic
adjustment program, i.e.:



- 34 -
(a) to achieve a higher GDP growth rate, by encouraging a supply
response In all productive sectors that require transport;
(b) to contain the rate of inflation, by reducing transport prices;
(c)  to Improve the balance of payments position, by increasing the
international competitiveness of Chadian cotton as a result of
reduced transport costs for inputs and outputs in the cotton
sector; and
(d) to increase food security, by providing year-round road links
within the country which will improve the accessibility of food-
deficit areas.
88.       More specifically, the proposed TSAIP is justified in thats
(a)  The proposed project would support the Government's comitment to
liberalize the road transport industry, including an end to the
current road transport monopoly and administered freight rates.
The creation of a deregulated trucking industry operating on a
rehabilitated and well-maintained road network Is expected to
reduce significantly the cost and price of transport, to elicit a
supply response from the productive sectors of the economy and,
thus, to act as a stimulant to economic development.
(b) The Government has agreed to introduce private sector participation
In road maintenance, with a target of 502 of work value by 1993;
In addition, periodic maintenance will be executed 1001 by contract
by 1993.
(c) The Transport Sector Investment Plan 1988-93 to be supported by
the proposed project calls for the rehabilitation and maintenance
of a reasonable priority road transport network of 3800 km.
(d) Proposed investments under the project do not Include any expansion
of the road network during the period concerned. The bulk of road
rehabilitation and maintenance will follow existing alignments and,
therefore, does not constitute a threat to the environment. Only
one road section (Bongor-Moundou) will be realigned, and agreement
was reached with the Government to ensure that the risk of
environmental disturbance is minimized.
(e)  Agreement has already been also reached with the Government and
other aid donors In connection with the contents of the Transport
Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy, i.e., the Transport Sector
Investment Plan 1988-93 and a package of major policy reforms in
the transport sector.
(f) The proposed project will support a major resource mobilization
effort in the transport sector, which is expected to meet the
cumulative needs of routine road maintenance for the period 1989-
93 and for each year thereafter.



- 35 -
(g) The Government has agreed to strengthen the public administration
of the transport sector, particularly Investment planning and
programming, policy formulation, and civil vorks supervision.
(h) The Investment Program supported by the proposed project would
generate direct employment for about 8000 laborers, mechanical
operators and drivers during the  implementation period.   In
addition, the multiplier effect of the proposed investment would
generate indirect employment, particularly through the introduction
of routine maintenance by small contractors.
(i) Under the proposed project, the Government will modify procurement
procedures  in  order  to  bring  more  competition  to  road
rehabilitation. In particular, road rehabilitation will be carried
out under International competitive bidding and streamlined
procurement procedures, which is expected to reduce the cost of
civil works.
89.       The specific justification of the proposed project is provided by
the standard cost-benefit analysis methodology for road rehabilitation
projects.  On the cost side, i.ae cost of road rehabilitation and subsequent
routine and periodic maintenance have been taken into account.   On the
benefit side the analysis includes the expected reduction in vehicle
operating costs accruing to normal trafficg it also includes benefits
associated with the induced traffic reflecting the productive sectors' supply
response to transport cost reductions.   Benefits associated with induced
traffic have been conservatively estimated and represent about 15X of all
benefits. Other, non-quantifiable benefits, such as those indicated above,
have not been included in the economic analysis. The economic rate of return
for the road rehabilitation eomponent, which accounts for the bulk of the
physical investments included in the project, has been conservatively
estimated at 15S. Sensitivity analyses indicate that a 151 increase in costs
would reduce the economic rate of return to 121; similarly, a 151 reduction
in beneft'ts would reduce the economic rate of return to 11.51. The proposed
project is the extension, on a wider scale, of the Road Maintenanee Project
(Cr. 1728-CD) and the Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-CD), whose
estimated rates of return were 211 and 42S, respectively. These rates are
higher than those of the proposed project mainly because they reflect much
higher volumes of traffic on the first roads that were selected for
rehabilitation under IDA's operations.
V.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CRAD
90.       Twenty-four IDA credits totalling US$248 million equivalent have
been approved for Chad as of October 30, 1988.  Twelve of these credits
(US$43.6 million equivalent) have been fully disbursed, and two (US$19.1
million equivalent) were cancelled before becoming effective because of the
1979-82 war. All Bank Group operations in Chad were suspended in July 1979
because of accumulated arrears on IDA credits, although escalating
hostilities had already halted project activities and led to considerable
damage to project assets. The Bank resumed its activities in Chad in mid-



- 36 -
1985 and lending started again in FY86. Eight operations have been approved
since then (US$169 million equivalent). Of the 22 credits (excluding the
cancelled ones), 10 were for agricultural or rural development, 6 for
education, 4 for highways and one for economic and financial management. In
addition, IDA and Special African Facility credits of US$16.2 million and
US$27.9 million respectively, for a Financial Rehabilitation Program were
approved in July 1988 to support the initial policy reforms in the
government's adjustment effort. The lending program for FY90-91 amounts to
US$79.1 million, compared to US$52.4 million in FY86-87.
91.       The large number of activities financed by official donors and
NGOs after the war has accentuated the need for better aid coordination. At
the Round Table Conference ir December 1985, the Bank agreed to take the lead
in coordinating donor assistance for cotton, transport and petrolem, while
FAO coordinates aid for agricultural and rural development.
92.       The Bank's assistance for Chad supports the Government's strategy
outlined in its Interim Development Plan 1986-88 and its adjustment program.
The Bank's strategy supports investments in the productive sectors
(agriculture, livestock and energy) as well as transport infrastructure, and
begins to emphasize development of human resources. The Bank also aims at
strengthening economic management, has begun to support macro-economic policy
reform, and places increased emphasis on aid coordination. This strategy
supports urgently needed reconstruction and rehabilitation works, and moves
progressively towards macro-economic and sectoral reforms.
93.       The Bank's strategy for the agricultural sector is shifting from
emergency assistance through the Emergency Cotton Sector Program in FY86 (Cr.
1716-CD) and the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1775-CD) in FY87
to subsector operations supporting investments and policy reforms.   A
National Livestock Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors
In May 1988, supports the Government's efforts to increase livestock
production, $mprove livestock health, and reform marketing.   Additional
sector work is underway to help define the objectives and content of the
Bank's future agricultural lending in Chad. An agricultural services project
(FY92)  to strengthen extension sad  research  is being prepared.    An
agricultural sector adjustment credit (FY93) would support policy reforms in
the following areass (a) the cotton sector, by pursuing the adjustment
measures supported under the Financial Rehabilitation Credit; (b) the
irrigation sector, by Implementing a cost effective strategy for the
development of irrigated agriculture; and (c) food security.
94.       Bank Group operations in the transport sector thus far have
included five highway projects as well as transport components in other
projects. The First Highway Project (Cr. 125-CD, US$4.1 million, 1968) was
aimed at Improving road maintenance but was only partially successful due to
severe budgetary constraints. The Second Highway Proj3ct (Cr. 490-CD, US$3.5
million, 1974) provided for improved cotton feeder road maintenance and ferry
operation but was not fully Implemented due to severe economic and political
difficulties. The Third Highway Project (Cr. 840-CD, US$7.6 million, 1978)
was designed to support a program of road maintenance and improvement, ferry
boat construction, and institutional strengthening, but it never became



- 37 -
effective because of political situation and lapsed In 1980. The ongoing
Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-CD, SDR 17.1 million, 1986) and the
Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-CD, SDR 34.4 million, 1988) were
designed to help the Government carry out its post-war reconstruction efiort
and strengthen its road rehatilitation and maintenance capability. While
focused on short-term needs, the latter two projects also provided the
Government and the Association with an opportunity to discuss major policy
issues and longer-term options, which in turn led to the preparation of a
comprehensive Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Strategy consisting of
an investment plan for the period 1988-93 and a package of major policy
reforms. This strategy focuses on completing the rehabilitation and securing
the maintenance of the priority road network, strengthening the planning and
management capacity of sector institutions, improving road maintenance
financing, promoting private participation in the sector, and liberalizing
road transport activities.
95.       In the enerzv sector, the Bank supports the Government's efforts
to reduce its energy dependence on petroleum imports. A petroleum project
(FY90) would include well development, a pipeline, a micro-refinery, and
modifications to the power plants in N'Djamena and other major cities.
96.       In human resources, the Government has begun the reconstruction
of the country's social infrastructure. In the education sector, the Bank
is  participating  in  this  reconstruction  effort  through  an  Education
Rehabilitatio- Project approved by the Executive Directors in August 1988.
It concentrcees on primary schools, providing assistance to low-cost
community-b ;ed construction and learning materials, and on teacher training
and institutional strengthening.   In the health sector, the Bank also
envisages assisting in the rehabilitation of the basic health care system and
the management capabilities of the Ministry, based on a sector survey
scheduled for 1989. Policy options for addressing the most pressing human
resources issues will be identified in a series of studies and discussed at
a Round Table on education, scheduled for 1989. A Social Development Program
(FY90) is under preparation to address the social impact of adjustment and
explore new approaches to social development.
97.       The Bank is assisting the Government with institution-building in
each of the projects it finances. In the cases of ministries concerned with
macro-economic management, the Bank is providing assistance through free-
standing technical assistance proiects. It is the implementing agency for
a UNDP-financed Technical Assistance project that is providing a team of
experts to the Ministry of Planning, which is complemented by an FY88
Economic and Financial Management Project. It includes studies that will
prepare policy reforms in the areas of public enterprises, public
administration and fiscal policy.   The project also includes surveys to
improve the statistical data base of the country.
98.       The Bank is also implementing a Financial Rehabilitation Program
approved by the Executive Directors in July 1988, whose objective is to
reestablish the financial basis for the cotton sector and for government
operations, and to initiate a policy reform in these areas. A follow-up



- 38 -
adjustment operation (FY92) would deepen the adjustment effort, especially
in public finance, and extend it to the parastatal sector as a whole.
VI.  COLLABORATION WI   THE   F
99.       Since 1985, when the Bank resumed lending operations in Chad, the
Bank and the Fund have closely coordinated their activities and assisted the
Government with the preparation of the Policy Framework Paper for 1987-90.
A first-year Structural Adjustment Facility program, approved on October 30,
1987, has been completed and the second-yeasr program is beang prepared for
1989. The Bank and the Fund are currently assisting the Government prepare
an updated PFP for 1989-91. At Government's request, the Fund prepared a
fiscal study, which is being discussed with the Government. The mission that
appraised the proposed Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project
coordinated with IMF staff in the area of petroleum tax revenues and
collection.
VII. AGRERNT U&CK  AND RECMMETIONS
100.      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a)  Sector Policy Statement;
(b) The financing plan in connection with the commaitments made by other
donors during the Transport Sector Donors meeting held in February
1988t
(c) Confirmation of Government's intention not to undertake investments
above an aggregated amount of 200 million CFAF annually that are
not included in the Investment Program without IDA prior approval;
(d) Confirmation of the adoption of the agreed reorganization schemes
and responsibilities to be given to MTP, MTAC, OFRAR, and the
creation of LNBTP, BNF and the Project Management Unit;
(e)  Confirmation that CFAF 6,500 million will be allocated through a
Road Fund to be created under OFNAR for routine road maintenance
in 1989-93 according to the following schedule: CFAF 900 million
in 1989, CFAF 1,100 million in 1990, CPAF 1,300 million in 1991,
CFAF 1,500 million in 1992 and CFAF 1,700 million in 1993;



- 39 -
101.      The following conditions will be conditions of Board Presentations
(a) Adoption of the legal documents organizing and defining the
responsibilities of MTP, MTAC, OFNAR, LNBTP, BNF and the Project
Mmatgement Unit.
(b)  The issuance of the Decree abolishing CTT's monopoly.
102.      The following are conditions of Credit Effectiveness (first tranche
release):
(a)  Effective  abolition of CTT's monopoly and appointment  of a
liquidator for CTT.
(b)  Start-up of BNF with a mandate satisfactory to the Association.
(c)  Establishment of a temporary indicative freight tariff range
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)  CFAP 900 million have been allocated to OPNAR In the 1989 Loi des
Finances for routine road maintenance and confirmation from the
Government that CFAF 1,100 million will be allocated to OFNAR in
the 1990 Loi des Finances for routine road maintenance.
(e)  Submission of an Action Plan for the restructuring of AIR TCHAD
satisfactory to the Association.
(f)  The  project  coordinator  with  experience  and  qualifications
satisfactory to the Association has been nominated.
(g) Adoption of simplified procedures acceptable for the Association
for bidding and contract awards.
(b) A mixed company has been established for the operation of the Mani
Quarry.
103.      The following are second and third tranches release conditions:
(a)  Release of the Second Tranche (June 1990)
Mi)     Satisfactory  review  of  the  progress  made  on  the
implementation of investments and policy reforms
undertaken and satisfactory level of funding for non-
personnel expenditures of NTP and ETAC;
(ii)     Complete liberalization of trasport prices;
(iii)     Conflrmation that CPAF 900 million have been actually
spent by OFNAR for routine road maintenance and CFAF
1,100 million were actually allocated to OFPAR for



- 40 -
routine road maintenance In 1990, and that CFAF
1,300 million have been appropriated in the 1991 Lot des
Finances to OP)R for routine road maintenance.
(Iv)     Agreement on the portion of the  1989-93 Transport
Investment Program to be carried Ln 1990-91;
(v)     The first phase of AIR TCHAD's restructuring plan has
been completed.
(vi)     Achievement of a petroleum tax collection performance of
at least 651 in 1989.
(b) Release of the Third Tranche (June 1991)
Oi)     Satisfactory  review  of  the  progress  made  on  the
implementation of investments and policy reforms
undertaken and satisfactory level of funding for non-
personnel of MTP and MTAC;
(Li)     Government confirmation that CFAF 1,100 million have been
actually spent by OFNAR for routine road maintenance in
1990, CFAF 1,300 million have been allocated to OFNAR
for routine maintenance in 1991 Lot des Finances and that
CFAr 1,500 million have been appropriated in the 1992 Lot
des Finances to OFNAR for routine road maintenance.
(I$)      Achievement of a petroleum tax collection performance of
at least 75S in 1990.
(iv)     The second phase of AIR TCHAD's restructuring plan has
been completed.
(v)    Agreement on the portion of the 1989-1993 Transport
Sector Investment Program to be carried out in 1991-92.
104.      The Followina is a Condition of Disbursement
A condition of disbur*ement of all components financed by IDA would
be a satisfactory review of progress made on the implementation of the policy
reform measures included in the tranche release conditions.   Should any
tranche not be released, disbursements on all components would be suspended.



CMas Kw Nuaroeeomicl tadle.ters  1/
(P.coe.t, except where, iudlated)
133      13114    135      166      17       138      is"      10ow     131        32      13n      164      186
projeced 
Gr.oeess etoPo          rwhrt          6.6    45.0       2.0.     -1.8      9.5      8.1      2.8           2.4      2.4 240 8.9  8.                 5.8
Orem. Smeo nmeGrowt" re"               0.4     42        20.8    -21.5      9.5      8.4      2.9      8.4      8.9      8.9      8.5       4.2      4.9
at per cepite I;rowt rote              0.0      -7.7    351.1     45.1     -2.1      0.0    40.0       9.8      0.4      6.4       5.6      4.2      4.0
Cm.uqObie. pew capita art  ret 0o.0    49.1             16.1    -19.9    48.5       -9.7    40.7    40.8        9.9      9.7      3.1      9.5       1.5
DO"b Ser"Ie (118mliii..)  2/           9.0      6.4       .0.     19.9     190      281.6    88.5      6.5    89.5      8.9.      25.6    20.1      20.8
Dowh Servieo S.ti.  3/                 9.6       8.0      7.8      7.2      .6.     12.9    16.6      18.9    12.2      11.7       8.2      0.2      8.8
Seth Service so S Of                   9.1      I1.8      1.4      1.2      1.1      2.9      2.6      2.2      2.1       1.0      1.4      1.5      1.4
arease I.o9t6                           .e       7.1      0.6     17.2     18.4     10.4     10.9    10.5      36.9     31.11    38.9      3.9      3.
Semeet). 11"Ig.U                      -2.2    -1.4         .        ..    -12.4    -11.5    -11.5     -0.0     -9.6     49.6      .4.7     49.8     -5.8
Noblo"# "eVImg                        -8.7    -1.6         .        .    -15.1    -14.0    -14.5   -12.5    -11.8    -11.8        4.2      46.7     4.5
lbrulme lbl m      l8eiget no".                            .        .         .       .9    40.1       9.5      9.1     4.          .        .        .9
pub) .lwema                            4.0      6.1      0.6      19.2     17.4     17.4    16.9      18.5      10.     10.9      10.      10.9      0.
Puboli  SeviegeI6p                                         .                  ..                         .       .
Privet.Ive.a/                           1.0      1.6      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9       LI        .9      1.9
Public/Prlvete leetmt Rtie             4.0       0.1      6.6     19.2     17.4     17.4     o10.9    16.5     1.0.     1 10.     10.9     1.0.     109i      P.
GOeOV.eNe.  uge   eeme                 4.8      6.1       7.5      5.0      6.2      7.9      7.1      7.1      7.1      7.1       7.1      7.1      7.1
overinet Curn   ueniueU                 .6    19.8A      0.1      6.6      8.7      0.6      0.6      0.7       0.1      0.1      0.8      0.2       .0.
sudget 0.41.6/OP                      42.8      -2.1     -1.6    -2.7      -2.5     -1.0     -1.5     -1.0     -2.9     -2.9    -2.1       -2.9     -1.0
Eapr  rowth St.   4/                        21.2   -26.       15.4    10.0    16.8        7.1      0.0       7.1      I.e      i.e     120U .1    .
Eaperte/OIP                  20.0~~~~~~M  52.4    131.5    17.8    17.9   17.7    16.2    181.0       10.9     19.6     17.      19.1     17.7
Import GrowthSt.   4/                       19.      581.15    0.6    22.6    191.81      7.0      1.8       6.5      6.2      1.1      4.0      9.8
Imperte/    saes"(MPm   )3.1               44.1    52.2    46.5       47.0      47.0    46.6    40.2       40.0     W6.51    46.7      47.0     47.4
toladuise .141.1.1 tromefer.        14.0      6.6   -60.9   -58.9   -4.0   -77.5  -191.8    42.1    40.2   -13.1    41.1    -25.2   -25.9
Excludlq official tresseter.       -3.#   -71.s  -228.9   -354.0   -826.    -856.    -804.0   -571.8   -804.2   -4611.1   -839 -6.2   -86.$
Current Accont S.amsce/UP 5/         -18.0   -181.8    -8.      -81.6    -88.5    -210.7    -20.0    -3.31   -2.68    -25.90   -21.4    -10.6    -10.7
z,  Al I i7ieen are percet9m   unione ebris pomlflo; C..) laicocee  "at VWm data
P.P  ibelth the root .1 "the  .i.aIc me  ve? able.
I/  t*Olude  the letereete a, *ad the repejente of armrse (877. 4 mIlIIon at the and of 1387).
5/IEls,d. pubtle tremefer  and efficili capital oreot.         sri
co
I.,



- 42  -                           ~~~~~ANNE   1
-                            ~~~~~~Page 2 of 3
Ws    a    to6   sm        tuo    us      I"      NWs  seg       so9    19    199    se      s
A.  Wapeete   beds 05  18?~   5*      a                     in10 16  407   21     148      M     m       10      -
1.,be-PeuWiSeivieee    80~  84        80     44      88      8      8      as      Go     U       a      as      a
or.e    Goods aW         Om t   in      88?    no       'm     8s4    an      a"s    so      mo     SW      ma    N
I.  hem.dlae VW             11    1an      18     tO       US 2 67a   809    S10    8W?    Ur7   an           84    SW
Ho- 1ba-PdesterSeer          sa     so    ins    174       2      my    246   1so       goo    269      a4    af      UK
C.  besume. boleme.            4?1   -dO   -US   -0?         -M0    .0    448   -88    -0    4an    451    -?   -874
D.  869 Pestr  ee               -S      44     -        , 4 -  .15    .211    46     4      .      2 -21 40  a  a -      .49
I.e.erftReceipts              1      I       1      4       2       4      a      a       6      7       0      0      9
lPecterPbgrnte                7     10       0     is5      1?     so     84      82     82     80      *o     2 
cia6e4eb ePeuemt)           a       4      8      4        a     is      is     14     la      i8      9       9      9
IL  Wb Crro ve tIrernet         -?      42      7      .4     -32    -4      -8      -S     -?      -?     -6      4      -8
C.orrect tAmlpe               4      6      $8      s$     17       s1    is       7     $8     19      so     U2      a
0. orkaltowAome      o       o      o                      I       a      2      1       a      2      a       a
h. cosw Crr"t9i'gi.         4       6     is      11      is     13      14     is      is     17      so     go     gm
.corrons Pvsm.               11      a      U      80      s9      U      26      26     85      U5     27     go      1
P.   @rr..tI Agem lslobess   40    -71   -US   -064    -80    -86    -US   -81   4154   -401   -S             -U      466
0.  L.rns,Tmas)teS 1*21..      1     Ss     -      in      88      868    8g0     a2    so      406    as      8W      406
D.ire"tZavewbinrn            -1      7      84    10        4       4      &      a       a      a       6      6      ?
2. Official capital Sreest    96      79    184    21       142    Ws    21131    m      in5    aft       7    8an     81O
s.Ne9LT Itu.OMd.te)          14      8       0     is       90     as    180      75     as     9       75     so      77
*.O1iS.F~~~~~9. ~14          a      8      so      go     60    l20      96   1s6    1n8       91      a6     97
0      a      6       2       5      11     to     1s      to     is      17     so     21
4. Omer LTTafIO(goo          -$81    -4      14      0        0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0
H4.  TafoeSoSherIrCa"h)         42      II      4     -55     -to      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       a
5. "A soe%tTOM  CakpStl        a      -1      5      0       .4      9      0       0      0      *       *      a       0
2. CaptalPlMOW.E.5.           -7                    -$8      -4      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0
S. mow   VW      eS            0       0m  0         0        0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0
I.   qpr   lo 3eSstbee    M    6     20    46      -1        a6    - -10    .41.4                 .6    42      40     .7
I. b Credit fra SW             0      4S      4      0        a     .1      -S    .4       0      9      .1     -1      -1
3obaebeevv.6mq4m              0     a      -20    -1        0      -9     -7     -1      -4     46      0      -6     -S
(- ldaeso lseave")
barn of OP (Carm* OS):
5. flemmirc baless           -11.0  -11.0  -8.?  .40.9   40.6  -210.3  -17.0  -26.4  -16.6  -16.1  -19.9  -$8.1  -17.5
S. 746.3 Users.t Phisuats      0.8    0.7    0.8    0.4       0.8    1.1    1.2    1.0    0.9    0.81   0.5    0.5    0.4
S. Carnmt AC=ees lblae       -$8.8  -538.  48.5  -81.0   -88.5  ..29*7  -9.9  -21.6  -250.  -25.0  -11.4  -19.8  -$8.7
4. LT Csplt.I 1.28..  (Ise 0)   $8.    18.0   80.8   80.?    84.8   80.8   80.8   210.9   96.1   U5.3   21.4   19.7   18.9
S. 869 Credit fe. the Dr                                      0.0  -4.1   40.4   40.8    0.0    0.0   -0.1   .0.1   4.I
obsrewAde hin
OF Cal II m  of Carro" UN)    M6    a18    US       M0      M1   116    188?   119    1469   1601   1815   196   1g8
PhreIwn lbdume, beR,.v:
1. 1.9,. Glenetic (VI lii)    93.0   44.31  818.81  18.      15.8                                                   
1. bIld (ted St Loadm price)    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.1                                                   
S. dsm -a       fowlas. bwid    88.1   41OS   818.0   $81.0    15.4                                                 
4. amft am. to a     th.zop.t   1.7    1.8    1.2    0.8      0.4                                                   



- 43-                                    ANNEX I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD            Page 3 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of Dec 31, 1988)
Amount in USS$ million
(less cancellations) a/
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Purpose                    IDA bI  Undisbursed
2 credits have been cancelled and fully repaid cl
12 credits have been fully disbursed.                43.59
Cr.489-1       1976       Sategui-Deressia
Irrigation Supplement      8.00           0.05
Cr.811         1978       Third Education             8.30           2.14
Cr.1716        1986       Cotton Program             15.00           1.50
Cr.1728        1986       Highway Maintenance        20.00           8.10
Cr.1775        1987       Agriculture Sector
Rehabilitation            17.40          14.35
Cr.1872        1988       Economic and Financial
Management                12.80          13.46
Cr.1901        1988       Road Reconstruction -    47.00           38.35
Cr.1912        1988       Livestock                  18.60          17.76
Cr.1942        1989       Financial Rehabilitation
Program  dl               16.20          14.62
Cr.1950        1989       Education Rehabilitation  22.00          21.80
TOTAL                                               228.90        132.13
of which has been repaid                              0.88
Total now held by IDA                               228.02
Amount sold               5.08
of which repaid           5.08
Total undisbursed                                                 132.13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Chad is not a member of IFC.
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
bI Credit No. 1716-CD and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in
US$ equivalent based on exchange rates in effect at the time of
negotiations.
cl The Second Livestock (US$11.5 million) and Third Highway (US$7.6
million) Projects were cancelled before becoming effective. on October
16, 1980. Supplemental credits were approved for the First and Second
Education Projects and for the Sategui-Deressia Project.
d/ plus $27.9 million from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, of
which $25.08 million is undisbursed.



- 44                                            ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
CHAD : TRANSPCRT SECTOR ADJUSTMENTIINVESTNiNT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate
(Niltions US S)
s   Foreign    Locat    Total
....................................................................................
A - INESTENTS
1 - CIVIL WOKS                                  s
a/ Buitdings
Rehabtlitation &  eonstruction of NTP/NTAC  s    4.2       0.2       4.4
Rehabititation of DAC buildinrg                  0.3       0.0       0.3
b/ Road rehabilitation by contract             :     45.?       1.9      47.6
el Road rehabilitation by force account        :     11.3       0.2      11.5
dV Urban roads construction                           8.0       0.4       8.4
e/ Air transport infrastructures               :     11.5       0.3      11.7
f/ Airports equipments                                0.8       o.s       1.3
2 - NINISTRY OF PUBLIC WOSW
31 Technicat assistance
To NTP                                           2.9                 2.9
To Project Management Unit                :      1.5                 1.5
To OFVM                                   :     10.6                10.6
To ENTP and LNBTP                                0.6                 0.6
hi Trainin and scholarship to NTP and OVUM    :       3.0                 3.0
C1 Studies, eivilt works supbevision & audits    :
Generat studies, road research & audits    :     2.0                 2.0
Road engineering studies                         1.1                 1.1
Civil works suerviesion                   :      3.S       0.1       3.6
3 - NINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & CIVIL AVIATION
a/ Technicat assistance
To TAC, BUF & GPR                                2.7       0.1       2.8
To Air Tchad                             :       1.5                 1.5
b/ Training and scholarship                           1.3                 1.3
c/ studies & audits                           :       0.8                 0.8
4 - OPERATING
sJ BNF                                                0.3       0.1       0.4
bJ ProJect Manaement Unit                             0.4       0.1       0.5
5 - CONTINGENCIES
ao Physical contingencies                     :       7.1       0.4       7.4
bI Price contingencies                        :      12.6       0.5      13.1
B - SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT
6 - BUDGET SUPPORT RELATED TO SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT :    20.0                20.0
C - ROJTINE MAINTENANCE                                            21.7      21.7
...     TOA158                                                     262.....................18..... ....0....
tOTAL                                     :    13.8       26.2    t8C.O



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
CHAD : TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS ESTIMATE
(NIltions US S)
:    1989   1990  1991   1992   1993  :  Total
.__._._..... ....... __.. ..___._  .,....,,......___... ....__..__...... ...........__.,,,,.................. ..................
A - IMVESTMENTS                                      s
1 - CIVIL CROS                                     5
Oa Buildings
Rehabilitation & construction of NTP/MTAC  :            3.4    1.0                 :    4.4
RehabiLitation of DAC butlding                   0.3                               :    0.3
b/ Road rehabilitation by contract               :   1.9   9.7   16.4   10.3   9.3   :   47.6
el Road rehabititation by force asoait                       1 1.7   3.9    4.0    1.9   :    11.5
dV Urban roads construction                      :           4.2    4.2                 s    8.4
^ Air transport infrastructures                       2.0    1.7    1.9   3.1   3.0   :   11.7
f. Airports equipments                           :   0.3    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.2          1.3
2 -MINISTRY OF PUBLIC  ORKS 
a/ Technical assistance
To MTP                                     :    1.0    1.0    0.7   0.1    0.1   :    2.9
To Project Manament Unit                        0.5    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.2   :      1.S
To OFNAR                                   :    1.S   3.2   3.7   3.2              :    11.6
To ENTP and LJBTP                          :   0.3    0.3                          :     0.6
bI Training and scholarship to NP and OFNAR    :   1.0    1.1    0.8                    s    3.0
c/ Studies, civil works supervision & audits                                            :
General studies, road research & audits    s   0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3   :    2.0
Road engineering studies                                1.1                        :     1.1
Civil works supervisien                    I           1.0    1.3    0.7    0.6   :    3.6
3 - INISTRY OF TRANSPORT & CIVIL AVIATION          :
a/ Technical assistance                          :                                      :
To TAC, SNF & GPR                               0.8    1.2    0.6   0.1            :    2.8
To Air Tchad                               :    0.5     0.5     0.5                :     1.5
b/ Training and seholarship                      :   0.6    0.4    0.3                  :     1.3
ce  studies & audits                                 0.4    0.2   0.2                   :     0.8
4 - OPERATING
a/ 8UN                                           :   0.1    0.2                               0 0.4
b/ Project Management Unit                       :   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   :    0.5
:                                      :
S - CONTINCENCIES
a/ Physical contingencies                        :   0.3    1.9   2.4    1.6    1.3   :       7.4
b/ Price contingencies                           :   0.3    2.5    4.0   3.3    3.0   :    13.1
:                                      s
8 - SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT
6 - BUDGET SUPPORT RELATED TO SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT      6.0   8.0    6.0                        20.0
C - ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                                  3.0   3.7   4.3    5.0    5.?   :   21.7
TOTAL                                      s  21.3  48.1   52.9  32.0   25.7   s   180.0
:                                      :



-46 -                                    AMI  2
Page 3 of 3
CIU s   TR OT sECTUS mUmnTRuS1               PIOCt
FINAClIN  noA
(OIftiIns Us O)
: EAC CCE FAC  AD?  EDIU   IDA  OPIC  FA  NO USD CMuo t TOTAL
..... ...................................._.............................
A- IUSNEIITSs
:
I - 1CIL tM
f Buildings
bhfllitstimn 4 costnrwtfm of  liTPTAC                                 4 4.2                       0.2:  4.4
Rehflitatin of SAC bdidine                                            0.3                         0.0  s  0.3
btod rtqhiittton bp wtrwt                   s  6.5             8L0         2.8  3.3 114         13.7  1.9  : 47.6
c/ Road rbablitatimn by foe  e tomt                                  4.1  2.6  0.7  3.9               0.2  : 11.5
d/ Urb  re cmmtruction                      :                              8.0                        0A  :  8.4
41 Air truprt infrs te                         1.1  9.4         1.0                                   0.3: 11.7
f/ Airpot :paift                                     0.8                                              0.S :  1.3
2 - KINISTMT OF PItC   M                                                                                     :
*1 Technicat asfitunc
To NYP                                 :             0.6              2.3                             :  2.9
To Project  _NugNt unit                                               1.5                             :  1.S
ToOFUAR                                                               S.6        1.S        3.S          10.6
To RAWP OrdI tITP                      :             0.6                                                  0.6
bi Training ard sgbosarship to NItP wnd OWRE   :          0.3             2.7                              :  3.0
c/ Studfi, civil 1*ft v afrvislen & Sdits :
Smoral studies, red resch & audits   :               0.3              1.7                             :  2.0
Roed aufinerfr studies                        :                       0.1        0.6        0.S     :    1.1
Civit works :qsrisio,                  a  0.4              0.5        0.9        0.7        1.0  0.1 :    3.6
3- I-  UITf rIR TLNET & CtVtL AVIATIU        :
a/ Tedicoat assistanc 
TO NTmc. UP a we                                                      2.7                        0.1 :  2.8
To Air Tcbd                                           1.5                                             :  1.S
b/ Training ard shorshi p                   :                             0.7        0.2  0.4              :  1.3
c/ studies &   its                          :                             0.8                              :  0.8
4 - OPATIUN:
e/ of:                                                                    0.3                         0.1 :  0.4
tx Project Nuugbmn Unit                     :                             0.4                         0:1  :   .S
S - CONTINENCIES
1 Physical ccntie   ies                        0.8  1.0        0.8  0.4  0.7  0.2  1.7  0.1  1.5  0.4  :  7.4
bf Price contlngsclee                          1.8  1.9        1.0  0.3  1.7  0.4  2.8          2.9  OS : 13.1
1 - SECTL ADJUSNT:
6 -  XeT SUWPT REUTED TO SECTALU  ADJUtET:                                 20.0                :               20.0
C -  R     aTuNE KIITEzC:                                                                               21.7    21.7
......TOTAL.10.6 13.1  3...........                               1.3----------------------------------- 4.8 _ 0.0.. 4.5 . 22.7.. 0.5-  2.0 26.2 180-.0
TOTAL                                     10t.6 13.1  3.3 11.3  4.8 60.0  * .S 22.7  O.S 23.0 26.2 :  80.0



- 47 -
ANINEX 3
Table I
COAD: TRANSPMOT SECTOR IWVESTMERT/ADJUSTYET PROJECT
IA - DISBURSENEIT SCHEDULE
(itlions FCFA)
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993    Total
Amnt irnvestment                2,497    4.994    3,380         541       593    12,005
Cuwtltive investment            2.497    7.491    10,871    11,412   12,005
Adjustment tranches releas      1,800    2.400      1,800                         6,000
Cumulativw adjustment           1,800    4.200    6,000    6,000    6.000
Total aruat disbursnent         4,297    7.394      S.180       541       S93    18,00S
Cumulative totat disbnrment   4,297    11.691    16,871    17.412   18.005
CHAD TRAISPMOT SECTOR INVESTNENT/ADJUTHENT PROJECT
IDA - DISSURSEN_NT SCHEDULE
(Nfiltioa US O)
1989      1990     1991       1992      1993     Total
Annual investment                 8.3      16.6      11.3       1.8       2.0      40.0
Cumulative fnvestment             8.3      25.0      36.2      38.0      40.0
Adjustment tranches release       6.0       8.0       6.0                          20.0
Cumulative adjustment             6.0      14.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
Totat annual disbursment         14.3      24.6      17.3       1.8       2.0      60.0
C ulative totat disbursment    14.3        39.0      56.2      58.0      60.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
CHAD : TRANSPORT SECTOR
INVESTNENTIADJUSTMENT PROJECT
Disbutsew%nt Schedule
(Millions US S)
Invstments        AdJustmant            Total
Quarters                    partiat cumulative                 partiat cumulative
.,___.___. .. ..... ............. .. .. . ....... _. . ....................
1989    1
tl
111                      5.5         5.5                     5.5        5.5
IV                      2.8        8.3          6.0        8.8        14.3
1990    1                       4.1        12.4                    4.1        18.4
it                      4.2        16.7                    4.2        22.7
III                      4.1        20.8                    4.1        26.8
IV                      4.2       25.0          8.0       12.2        39.0
1991    1                       3.3        28.3                    3.3        42.3
11                      3.0       31.5                     3.0        45.3
III                      2.7       34.0                      2.7       48.0
IV                      2.3       36.2          6.0        8.3        56.2
1992    1                       0.7        36.9                     0.7       56.9
it                      0.4       37.3                     0.4        57.3
III                      0.4        37.8                     0.4       57.8
IV                      0.3       38.0                     0.3        58.0
1993    1                       0.6        38.7                    0.6        58.7
11                      0.5       39.2                     O.S       59.2
ill                      0.4       39.6                     0.4        59.6
IV                      0.4       40.0                     0.4       60.0
.._  .. . .._     . . .. . ......_, ,   _... . .._ .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .._. .



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHAD - TINSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTIN/INVESTNEHT PROJECT
DishuSmInt profiles
1g80 Millions US $
168. DiSJutsnent
148+
1280                                                           - TOTAL
loo.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROCRAN
8e                                                            -IDA
u8                      ------.. CHAD
49-
.........
I989     1990        1991        1992       1993
Yeazs



- 50 -
AN=E 3
Table 4
(SAD - TRISPORT SECTOR AIJUSTN/IWJSiNDI PROJECT
Disus.nt piofiles
180  Nillions US S
160  Disusiment
148I9
129                                                             U TOTAL
199                                                               PROGRN
49
29
9   1989  1990    1991      1992     1993
Yeaps



C*  E*  **  -   *   **  -   -   fi.    .f    *  **  **  *t  CC  **f    C   -   **  ***   f   -    -   S   **   -   fi  **  fi  fi  fi  fi  **  **C    * C 
|05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                                 .     C   _          _                       C l:|__     
i~~~~~~ .   s  j               ------                                                                  C     i_t
*               Si  S,i   C}      j                     S} Cts  , ii l!g                 f    s      1
.                   .                                                   



Ix~~    n   *   . *   , ,   . . . ................  n . . . . .   .   . . ........... .   * 0 * * * * * *.. 
|13~~ ~~~~~ -'         ,. l              ., ,,            ,4
es ~   4"    fni~I -.  " **"  fi "'" "|" fiffn  !f fin    nn *n*    fn ..... f    ""
|z;~~~~ ~~~~~~~ * :                                       :   4   
3                                 '  !    |   i    ]   a    QE , . _,, ll g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 44  
i9Z.Xw1!1'1,Itegltsiie~~ S



3~~~~~~~~ .5
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                  ..fn..n.   5
|~~~~~~~~~~                            1
iIs         V--,-      !!            I   ' 1 -
Ii     X*              -           .  - In-----..-"i--.. l---..i
- D.          ,.                 .     
E            |-    S 
I I ,aiia I 11JthIX
a-            9-0||      1t}
:~a iie  
Xi 3    -g~   3- a.     



** -      *e* ** -      54 0 44   **-           fl - 5  41 44 .4    4  * * 44   44 .4 44 4  ** 44 41 -          ** *5 ** *4 44      * * * * 44** 45 5  * 4
E  -  E                        E4
s  l|_, j. ; .... 11 -11~~~~~~~~   , 
44                                     .444  -  .401   544. .4-n   ....  ....  ..................................................... ...............4...44......nfl.....................44-......*........................................4....44...... 
*                                                                                             . 5 
itti13il'' ~                        ~~~~~ 5    i 4                                               ,e 



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
89
70+                                                U Assistance
6I-                                    kg 1728 CD
5 5                                                * Ofna'
Nan x  onth 4B.                                                 M Publ ic
31                                                   IIozks
29-          l                                    0 Transports
1989    1999    1991    1992    1993
Years



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 de 4
CHAD
STATUIENT OF TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
1. Recent Economic DeveloDments
In 1986, Chad's per capita ineome was about US$160. Over the last
twenty years, Chad has suffered many economic and financial difficulties
resulting from the country's low level of development and recurring periods
of drought. These difficulties were Intensified by the 1979-82 war, which
absorbed a significant part of the nation's limited resources.
Since 1983, Chad bas made considerable progress in connection with
political stability and economic reconstruction. Real GDP, which declined
by about 201 during the wat, increased by an average 71 per annum over the
period 1982-85, reflecting a record cotton crop in 1983184 and the
rehabilitation of the agriculture and livestock sectors after the drought.
In 1986 and 1987, however, the crisis of the cotton sector and its
negative consequences on Government revenues, resulted in a rate of
economic growth that was slower than the rate of growth of the country's
population.
2. Interim Development Plan
The Government has attempted to address at the samo  time the
fundamental problems of development and the structural problems of the
economy. The main elements of the Government's development strategy were
defined In the 'Interim Development Plan 1986-88V, which was presented to
aid donors gathered at a meeting in Geneva in December 1985.
The Government's long-term objectives are food security, reduced
dependence on cotton, rehabilitation and maintenance of transport
Infrastructure, and accelerated human resource development.
3. Transport Sector Strategy
The Government has defined the major guiding principles for the
development of the transport sector taking into account the extent of
progress already made under the Interim Development Plan as well as the
programs and projects whose realization will be required In the sector.
These major guiding principles are:
(a) Adoption of a Priority Transport Network. In 1993, the priority
trassport network (details in Annex 5-1) will consist of 3800
kms of roads and permanent or intermittent air transport among
Chad's major cities. This is a modest objective for a vast,



- 57 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 do 4
landlocked country that doesn't have a railway and whose road
network consisted of 7300 kms of classified roads in 1977. To
attain the above-mentioned objective (3800 kms of roads in
1993), 1800 kms of roads must be rehabilitated over the next
five years. This program includes the bulk of investments
envisaged in the highway subsector. Its sheer size makes it
difficult to consider the rebabilitation of secondary roads
during the same period.
(b)  Complementarity among Modes of Transport, particularly between
road and air transport. Given the high cost of air transport,
it will be developed only to link regions with limited road
access. The coexistence of both road and air links will not be
maintained except when traffic volumes justify it.
(c)  Institutional Strentthenin  and Private Sector Promotion, which
would includes
-   Redefinition of the functions of transport sector
institutions, and strengthening of resources and staffing.
*    Promotion of private entrepreneurs and privatization of
some government institutions.
*    Liberalization of the road transport industry, including
the abolition of monopoly powers granted to public or
private institutions in the sector.
*   A regulatory framework for the road transport industry.
*   Abolition of fixed administered tariffs for road transport.
This principle also calls for improved management of the sector,
particularly as regards air transport, whose low traffic
forecasts do not justify any major investments before 1993.
4. Action Required to Implement the Sector Stratety
(a) Actions Already Implemented.
*   Within the scope of the liberalization of the sector, the
Government has abolished the Office des Carrilres (OFCA)
and made arrangements leading to transfer the operation of
the Mani quarry to a semipublic ccmpany where the private
partner has a majority interest.
*    Steps have already been taken to start strengthening the
institutions and improve the management of the transport
sector. Of particular importance is the definition of road
construction and maintenance standards presented by the



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 de 4
Government and adopted during the February 1988 meeting
with aid donors.
*   The Government has made a major effort of allocating
adequate resources to road maintenance from petroleum tax
revenues.
*   The Government has also prepared, and presented at the
February 1988 meeting of aid donors, a transport sector
strategy and a program of associated Investments. The
Government hereby confirm its intention to limit
investments in the priority transport network to those
presented and approved during the above-mentioned meeting.
(b) Actions to be Implemented.
At the earliest possible time, the Government intends to take
the following steps in support of the investment program:
*   Strengthening of the institutions responsible for the
transport sector, namely, MTP and MTAC.
*   Reorganization of OFRAR to enable it better to discharge
its responsibilities as detailed in the Action Plan in
Annex 5-2.
-   The Government acknowledges the importance of maintaining
the road network, particularly taking into account the
expected growth of the rehabilitated network. It commits
itself to increasing its participation in the financing of
these activities by means of an increase in the part of
petroleum tax revenues assigned to road maintenance, and/or
the creation of new road user charges. The annual amounts
required as shown in Annex 5-2 will be determined during
negotiations of the proposed Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project.
*   The Government will create a Road Fund within OFNAR, Which
will secure that the relevant resources will be adequately
managed and flexibly utilized.
*   Increased participation of the private sector in periodic
road maintenance, with the objective that all periodic road
maintenance will be eventually done by the private sector.
*   Managerial assistance and training to small and modium-
scale enterprises to enable them to increase their
participation in routine road maintenance to 202 of
relevant expenditures in 1990, 302 in 1991, 402 in 1992,
and 502 in 1993.



- 59 -
ANNEX S
Page 4 de 4
*   The Government will abolish CTT's monopoly.  CTT will be
liquidated and the freight transport market wvil be
liberalized. In addition, a Bureau National de Fret (BNF)
will be created; it will act as a clearinghouse for
Information regarding transport demand and supply, will
record transport contracts, and convey relevant information
to fiscal authorities. The BNP will not play any role in
connection with freight allocation among truckers.
However, to help the small truckers adjust to the new
conditions, and during a transitory period of one year
following the effective elimination of CTT's monopoly, 25Z
of the road Zreight (in t/lkm) would be negotiated through
public advertising at BNF. NTAC will regulate the road
transport industry within the scope of a liberalized
economy. Freight rates will also be liberalized over one
year transitory period during which tariff freedom will be
restricted by minimum and maximum rates.
*    The Government intends to review every year with IDA the
transport sector investment plan (including parastatal
enterprises) and commits itself to discuss with IDA any
investment not included in the investment plan costing more
than CFAF 200 million.
*   An external audit completed a few weeks before negotiations
disclosed that AIR TCHAD's accumulated losses reached
US$2.3 million in 1989. To face this situation, the
Government intends to launch shortly a study to prepare an
Action Plan for the financial rehabilitation of AIR TCHAD.
This Action Plan will be agreed with the Association and
Its implementation will provide execution phases to be tied
to the second and the third tranche releases.
*   The Government intends to review its procurement procedures
in order to accelerate project _mplementation and Increase
the level of competition. The Government is committed to
taking specific steps in agreement with IDA.
The Implementation of this Statement of Transport Sector Policy was
discussed and agreed with IDA during negotiations.



- 60 -
ANNIXE 5-1
CHAD ROAD PRIORM  NwU lt
Roads                                                           (km)
Paved Roads
-    N'Djamena-Djermaya                                        29
-    N'Djamena-Guelengdeng                                    146
-    Walia-N'Gueli                                              6
-    Contournement de N'Djamena                                20
-    VoLes urbaines dans N'Djamena                             14
Unpaved Roads
-    Djermaya-Massaguet                                        46
-    Massaguet-N'Goura                                        125
-    N'Goura-Mongo                                            303
-    Mongo-Oum Hadjer                                         228
-    oum Hadjer-Abeche                                        146
-    Guelengdeng-Sarh                                         406
-    Guelengdeng-Bongor-Ere-4elo                              229
-    Sarh (Guere)-Moundo_-Lere                                596
-    Djermala-Dandi                                            66
-    Massaguet-Hassakory-Baga Sola                            306
-    Mongo-Ati                                                154
-    Mongo-Am Timan                                           253
-    Abeche-Biltine                                            92
-    Ab&che-Adre                                              167
-    Sarh-Sido                                                122
-    Mbalkoro-Gore-Bedaoyo                                    110
-    Doba-Gore                                                 95
Totalt  3659
11   This table represents the current distribution of the network in
paved and unpaved roads. The evolution of this status will be
examined during the annual investment review.



- 61 -
ANNEXE 5-2
Page 1 de 5
PLAN D'ACTION POUR L'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
PREAMBULE
1.        Ce plan d'action vise a identifier et programer toutes lea
mesures a prendre en vue d'atteindre les objectifs que le Projet
d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports slest assigne, danm le cadre
specifique de la politique d'entretien routier adoptee par le Gouvernement
Tchadien et prasentee en fevrier 1988 a ses partenaires internationaux au
cours de la rounion de suivi de la Table Ronde de Genove de Dcembre 1985.
INTRODUCTION
2.        Le reseau routier Tchadien comprend environ 7.300 km de routes
classees et pres de 29.000 km de pistes non classees d6eservant
essentiella_ont les zones rurales. Dans le cadre de la priparation du
Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports, ltobjectif retenu en matiere
d'entretien routier est de maintenir en bon etat de praticabilite par tout
temps, le reseau routier prioritaire au fur et i mesure de sa
r-habilitation.  Ce reseau routier prioritaire representera en 1993, 3.800
km de routes rehabilitees. La liste des sections de routes constituant le
reseau prioritaire est jointe en annexe.
OBJECTIFS
3.        Los objectifs du plan d'action pour l'entretien routier sonts
(a)  Redefinir les attributions et reorganiser les institutions
chargees de l'elaboration et de la mise en oeuvre de la
politique routiere du Gouvernement Tchadien.
(b) Ameliorer la planification de la politique d'entretien routier.
(c)  Amiliorer la gestion du reseau routier.
(d) Ameliorer la programnation des o*prations d'entretien routier.
(e) Ameliorer les methodes et conditions d'execution des programmes
d'entretien routier.
(f)  Ameliorer le controle de l1execution des programmes d'entretien
routier.
(g) Assurer le financement de l'entretien du reseau rehabilite.



- 62 -
ANNEXE 5-2
Page 2 de 5
1. POUR REDEFINIR LES ATTRIBUTIONS ST REORGANISER LES INSTITUTIONS
CHARGEES DE L'ELABORATION ET DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DE LA POLITIQUE
ROUTIERE
Promulguer at mettre en vigueur avant le 4 avril 1989 tous les
textes reglementaires necessaires pour proceder ; la miso en place dos
services rosponsables de ll'laboration et do la mise on oeuvro do la
politique routiere au soin des organismes publics sous tutollo du MTPs
*   Ordonnance portant modification dos attributions do l'OFNAR.
*   Decret portant reorganisation de l'OFNAR.
*   Ordonance portant creation du LNBTP.
*   Decret portant statut du LNBTP.
*   Decret portant creation de la Cellule Interministerielle de
Suivi de Coordination des Projets.
2.   POUR AMELIORER LA PLANIFICATION DE LA POLITIQUE D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
LE GOUVERNEMENT S'ENGAGE As
2.1.      Revoir la classification du reseau routier afin de delimlter leo
responsabilites de maitrise d'ouvrago ot de maitrise d'oeuvre pour le
roseau national. le reseau regional, local ou urbain et d'en etablir lea
normes techniques specifiques do construction et d'entretien.
2.2.      Crier au sein do la Direction des Routes une Banque de Donnees
Routi;res avec l'aide du LNBTP et ktablir pour lo 31 decembre 1991:
*   Les programmes d'entretien periodique des routes bitumees, des
routes en terre, des ouvrages d'art et des bacs situes sur le
reseau faisant l'objet d'un entretien permanent.
*   Le programme des rehabilitations routires necessaires.
*   Le programme de bitumage des routes susceptibles de remplir les
conditions de rentabilite economique requises.
3. AMELIORER LA GESTION DU RESEAU ROUTIER
3.1.      Crier et installer avant le 30 juin 1990, les dolegations
regionales des Travaux Publics de Moundou, Abecho, Sarh et N'ODjamina.
3.2.      Crier pour le 31 Mars 1990 au niveau do la Direction des Routes
une Banque de Donnies des matricules routiers et un inventaire des ouvrages
d'art et des points de franchissement par bacs qui seront tenus a jour par
l'exploitation des rapports mensuels fournis par les Delegations Rogionales
des Travaux Publics (DRTP) et l'OFNAR.
3.3.      Fournir mensuellement ; partir du ler janvier 1991 au niveau do
la Direction des Routes et a l'intention des usagers de la route une carte
precisant l'otat du reseau, et des points do franchissement do cours d'eau
ainsi que l'emplacement des zones susceptibles d'etre fermees & certaines
epoques de l'annee par des barrieres de pluies ou des limitations do
tonnage.



- 63 -
ANNEXE 5-2
Page 3 de 5
4.   POUR AMELIORER LA PROGRAMATION DES OPERATIONS D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER LE
GOUVERNEMENT S'ENGAGE A:
4.1.      Etablir des le ler Octobre 1989 le projet de budget de
fonctionnement de l'entretien routier de l'OFNAR pour l'annee 1990 sous
forme D'UN CONTRAT PROGRAMME D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER passe entre 1'OFNAR Maitre
d'Oeuvre et la Direction des Routes du MTP Maitre d'Ouvrage, presente de
telle sorte qu'il permette de d&crire, de preciser et de suivre sor le
terrain lea actions programaees dans le cadre de ce budget.
4.2.      Comencer des 1. 31 Mars 1990 a recueillir dans la Banque de
Donnees de la Division de l'Entretien Routier du MTP les informations
fournies par les rapports mensuels d'activite des unites de l'OFNAR
concernant l'evolution de la circulation, le rendement des engine, les prix
de revient des travaux d'entretien en fonction des terrains, de la
circulation et de la pluviometrie.
4.3.      Budgetiser chaque annee 8 partir de 1990 un programme de
comptage de trafic, de pesage et d'enquetes de circulation.
4.4.      Budgetiser chaque annie a partir de 1990 au niveau de la oellule
do planification de la Direction des Routes un programme d' etudes 8 confier
au LNBTP pour poursuivre l'effort de recherche en matiere de materiaux
routiers, de connaissances des sole et des climate, d'utilisation des
materiaux locaux et de techniques adaptees, de ratios d'utilisation des
engins et des personnels de chantier et de publication des NfOfES
techniques adaptees au contexte Tchadien.
4.5.      Faire etablir annuellement par la Direction du Materiel de
l'OFNAR un programe de revision ou de renouvellement du materiel
compatible avec les recettes provenant des locations de vahicules et
d'engins, en concertation avec les services techniques utilisateurs
concernes.
5.  POUR AMELIORER LES METHODES ET CONDITION D'EXECUTION DES PROGRAMMES
D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER LE GOUVERNEMENT S'ENGAGE A:
5.1.      Restructurer avant le ler janvier 1990 la Direction du Materiel
de l'OFNAR pour lui permettre de fonctionner comme une entreprise de
location, de revision du materiel et de fourniture de pieces de rechange.
5.2.      Etudier et mettre en place le ler janvier 1990 au plus tard un
SYSTEM DE PRIMES DE RENDEMENT OU D'INTERESSEM1ENT AUX RESULTATS pour le
personnel de chantier des que les documents de suivi des chantiers
permettront de comparer de fa9on fiable les resultats aux previsions et de
valoriser les gains enregistres pour la collectivite nationale du fait d'un
niveau de resultat superieur a celui raisonablement exigible.
5.3.      Porter la part des travaux d'entretien courant sous-traites par
l'OFNAR a des PME de 202 du montant des travaux en 1990 a 501 au moins du
montant des travaux en 1993.



- 64 -
ANNEXE 5-2
Page 4 de 5
5.4.      Faire ralisor a partir de 1993 tous les travaux d'entretlen
pariodique par des entreprises privies conformement aui specifications de
marches de travaux qul seront conclus entre 1'OFNAR et ies entreprises.
5.5.      Adopter la procedure de palement en depenses controlees pour lea
travaux exicutis dans une phase transitoire par des brigades autonomes de
l'OFNAR pouvant etre ult4rieurement privatisees. L'approbation des
decomptes transmds par l'OFKAR avant palement par lea organisms de
financement etant faite par la Direction des Routes.
6.   POUR AMELIORER LE CONTROLE D'EXECUTION DES PROGRAMMES D' ENTRETIEN
ROUTIER. LE GOUVERNEMENT S'SNGAGE A:
6.1.      Faire etablir par l'OFNAR avant la fin de 1990:
*   L'inventaire du materiel.
*   La baremo des locations internes comprenant l'amortissement et
les frais generaux.
*   L'inventaire du magasin des pieces de rechange.
*   La recueil des procedures de mise a disposition et de
facturation du materiel aux unites.
6.2.      Fournir avant le 30 juin 1990 les comptes de bilan et
d'exploitation de l'OFNAR arret'esu 31 Decembre 1989 et mettre au point
d'ici cette date toutes las procedures qui permettront ulterieurement ; cet
organism. de rendre compte annuellement de see activites et de presenter
les comptes financiers en traitant de fa9on distinctes
*   Le servlce de collecte do la taze unique sur lea carburents qui
ulteriourement pourra etre rattacha au Ministere des finances.
*   Le Fonds Routier qui regoit la part de la taxe petroliere
revenant i l'entretien routier.
*   Les comptes d'exploitation et les comptes financiers de l'OFNAR
agissant en tant QU'ENTREPRISE CHARGES DE LA MAITRISE D'OEUVRE
ST DE L'EXECUTIOW DE L'ENTRBTISN ROUTIER.
7.  POUR ASSURER LE FINANCEMENT DE L'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER. LE GOUVERNEMENT
S'ENGAGE A:
7.1.      Reajuster si necessairo au ler janvior do chaque annee le prix
du carburant ou le pourcentage de la TAXI UNIQUE our le carburant verse en
recettes du Fonds Routier de faron a couvrir en totalite la part Tchadienne
des budgets necessaires i la realisation du PASET danm son ensemble.
7.2.      Riserver pour l'entretien routier lea montants minimum annuals
suivantss
1989   900.000.000 FCFA
1990 1.100.000.000 FCFA
1991 1.300.000.000 FCFA
1992 1.500.000.000 FCFA
1993 1.700.000.000 FCFA



- 65 -
ANNEXE 5-2
Page 5 de 5
lesquels montants devraient pouvoir provenir en totalite de la taxe unique
sur lea carburants sans changer lea prix ou lea poureentages, a condition
d'amUliorer lee taux de recouvrement qut devraient passer de 652 en 1989 a
752 en 1990 et 852 ; partir de 1991.
7.3       Etudier et prevoir la mise en vigueur eventuelle i partir du lot
janvier 1993 de taxes supplementsires, lorsqu'apparaltront des besois
supplementaires de financoment lies au demarrage des premilres operations
d'entretien psriodique du reseau routier.



- 66 -
ANNEXE 5-3
Page 1 de 2
PLAN D'ACTION POUR LA PROMOTION
DES PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
1.          Le Gouvernement Tchadien s'est engage i faire participer le secteur
priv; aux activites d'entretien routier courant a environ 20S des coats en 1990,
302 en 1991, 40% en 1992 et 50% en 1993.
Le Plan d'Action pour la promotion des petites et soyennes
entreprises tchadiennes vise a identifier et programmer toutes lea mesures a
prendre en vue d'encourager et faciliter les activites des petites et moyennes
entreprises dans le secteur de lVentretien des routes.
Oblectifs
2.          Les objectifs du Plan d'Action pour la Promotion des petites et
moyennes entreprises tchadiennes visent a:
a)    Creer et ameliorer le cadre de la reglementation applicable aux
petites et moyennes entreprises dans le secteur des Travaux Publics;
b)    Engager une premiare action d'assistance a des PME tchadiennes sous-
traitantes de l'OFNAR pour la realisation de travaux d'entretien
courant;
c)    Creer des conditions favorables a la privatisation ulterieure de
brigades lourdes de l'OFNAR dens le domaine de l'entretien periodique
ou de la rehabilitation.
3.          Pour amaliorer le cadre de la reglementation applicable aux PME. le
Gouvernement s'engage as
i)    Promulguer et mettre en vigueur avant le ler Juillet 1989 une
ordonnance portant classification des entreprises de Travaux
Publics et du Batiment;
11)   Creer au sein de l'OFNAR avant le 31 Decembre 1989 un Bureau
d'Assistance aux PME tchadiennes;
iii)  Faire etudier et adopter avant le 31 Decembre 1989 des cahiers
des charges techniques types pour l'execution des travaux de:
*    point a temps
*     debrousaillage
*     curage de fosses
*     construction ou reparation de petits ouvrages d'art
*    pose de buses



- 67 -
ANNEXE 5-3
Page 2 de 2
*     construction de radiers
iv)   Faire etudier et adopter avant le 31 Decembre 1989 des cahiers
de charges tenant compte des facilit;s accordoes par lea
banques et lee organismes de financements en matiere des
- fi cautionnement
nantissement des marches
*     obtention d'avances ou de prets d'equipements.
4.          Pour enaiter une Dremlere action d'assistance a des PME sous-
traitantes de l'OFNAR pour la realisation de travaux d'entretien courant, le
Gouvernement 8' engaae a:
i)    Mettre en place au sein de l'OPNAR avant le 31 Decembre 1989
1'assistance technique prevue pour assurer le demarrage du
Bureau d'Assistance aux PME;
ii)   Demarrer avant le 31 Decembre 1989 un programme de formation
de base a N'Djamena du personnel des P1E selectionn;es;
iii)  Passer avant le 31 Daceuare 1989 avec ces entreprises un
contrat de sous-traitance d'une duree d'un an renouvelable,
pour un montant representant environ 20S du coAut de l'entretien
courant programm pour 1990;
iv)   Simultanement engager un programme de formation du personnel
de ces entreprises nur le terrain au niveau de chaque chantier;
v)    Conclure avant la fin de chacune des annmes suivantes, des
contrats ou avenants de sous-traitance permettant d'atteindre
l'objectif de 50S de travaux sous-traites en 1993.
5.          Pour crier des conditions favorables ; la privatisation ulterleure
de bricades lourdes de l'OFNA2R dens 1e domaine de l'entretien nariodine ou de
la rehabilitation. le Gouvernement stenEafe a:
i)    Organiser a compter du ler Octobre 1989 la brigade lourde de
MONGO en brigade autonome au sein de l'OFNAR;
ii)   Faire tenir une comptabilita double et des comptes financiers
de cette brigade qui puissent etre isolas et presentes de fa,con
separes a partir de l'exercice 1990;
iii)  Former des cadres Tchadiens qui puissent assurer a partir du
ler janvier 1992 lea responsabilitas de Directeur Technique
et de Directeur Administratif et Financier de cette brigade.



- 68 -
ANNEXE 5-4
Page 1 de 2
PLAN D'ACTION POUR LA MISE EN PLACE DE PROCEDURES
SIMPLIFIEES DE PASSATION ET D'APPROBATION
DES MARCHES
Preambule
1.          En l'absence de Code des Marches Publics, les d'ecrets 36/TP159,
37/TP/59 et 38/TP159 constituent le cadre juridique de la passation des marches.
2.          Alors quo le nombre des marches publics traitts par la Commission
Nationale des Marches n'a pas depasse quarante trois en 1986, le demarrage du
PASET va pour le seul secteur des Travaux Publics entrainer l lancement de pres
de deux cents marches et contrats qui, dans le cadre de le raglementation
actuellement en vigueur, devraient etre soumis a la Commission Nationale des
Marchas.
3.          Une etude sur 11'exacution des marchas publics au Tchad est en cours
pour mettre en place les bases d'une raglementation qui devrait se substituer
- cello idit'ee en 1959 et pour &tudier les procedures, organiser les circuits
de passation de contrats et de circulation de i'information.
4.          Le present Plan d'Action vise a identifier at programmer toutes lea
mesures a prendre on vue d'accelerer les procedures de passation et d'approbation
des marches et contrats nacessaires a la mise en oeuvre du PASET.
Obiectifs
5.          Les objectifs du Plan d'Action pour la mise en place de procedures
simplifiaes de passation et d'approbation des marches sont:
(a)   Accalerer la mise en oeuvre des recommandations de l'etude generale
susvisees;
(b)   Obtenir des simplifications de procedures sp;cifiques pour les
marches de fournitures d'etudes et de travaux prasent's par les
services du MTP at du MTAC dans 10 cadre du PASET;
(c)   Maintenir les procedures actuellement applicables aux marches de
ll'OFNAR;



69 -
ANNEXE 5-4
Page 2 de 2
6.          Pour accelerer la mise en oeuvre des recommandations de l'itude
anrale susvise-. le Gouvernement s entaae as
i)   Promulguer et mettre en vigueur avant le 31 dicembre 1989 un
Code des Marchas Publics do la Ripublique du Tchad qul se
substituera aux trois decrets 361TP, 371TP, 381TP de 1959;
Ui)   A faire atudier par l Bureau des Marches du MTP et a fournir
a l'IDA avant le 31 Juillet 1989 un programe d'otudes de
contrats types:
*    Clauses administratives
*    Soumissionst cautions,
a insirer dans les dossiers de consultation, compatibles avec
la reglamentation Tchadienne et les engagements pris vis-a-
vis des bailleurs de fonds;
7.          Pour etablir avant la miso on vigueur du cridit. des procidures
simplifiies relatives aux marchis de fournitures ou de travaux d'un montant
in-firieur ou izal iL 200 millions dan. l. cadre dui PASET, l. Gouvernement s'onaaae
a prendre par arreti interministariel (MTP-MTAC-SGG) les dispositions ci-apras:
i)   L'ouverture des plis se fait dans un delai no depassant pas
24 heures aDprs la date limite du depot des offres.
ii)   La Sous-commission technique prisidoe par le Directeur des
Marchis ou son reprisentant dipose son rapport do synthase
d'ivaluation des offres aupres du SGG dans un dilai de 15 jour.
suivant la date d'ouverture des offres.
iii)  Le SGG dispose d'un delai do 10 jours pour riunir la Coimission
Nationale d'Adjudication. Si la Commission no se riunit pas
dans lea 10 jours suivant la date de dipat du rapport de
synthase, le SGG approuve le marchi sur la base des conclusions
do la Sous-commission technique.



- ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                      
I '!"1:i!j    -ill                                 l                 ' I
. ,                                               . .   .illl  . l
'Iii!   ,3t!dID             iiii     iiiii   '                        I e 
_________ _________ ________ _________ _______I



IT~~~~~~~~~ 
T-- -- -- - - - --- 1- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                 
IN11111                   lnt
2|||ffiigi            I !i4-l|;2 itgil
I.                                         .
fia -l - - - - ---- - -- - 5      - - - - - - -                                                 i



- - - - - - - - - - - -    -   - -- -- -- - --    -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     .
~~~~IJIi:    1111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .8
*                     Ii Ig!gg               
*  ,l        ge3isgl    1eI   g!9dl   , 
303
- - - --1-     -  -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -  -



.9         1                    V                          
E I!j!   g]  g j             _     
*      #      d     .,l}fi4.  gg :
__         _   __  _  _   __  _  _   N _  _  _    . ,~
^                   E G 3                 2~~-Ia
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _
*   E                       i.Iiigii         j 



- 74 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTHENTIINVESTMENT PROJECT
CHAD ROAD CONSTRUCTION DESIGN NORMS
GENERAL CONTEXT AND ROAD SYSTEM
1.1 CLIMATE
The main climatological zones covering the Republic of Chad occur in the
order shown below, from South to Northt
1)   Sudano-Guinean zone in the South
Semi-humid tropical climate - Moundou, Sarh region
-   Annual rainfall: 1350 to 950 mm.
-    Rainy season: 6 to 7 months - May to November with maximum
rainfall in July, August and September.
-    Dry season: 5 to 6 months - November to April, with no rainfall
in December and January.
-   Mean annual temperatures: of the order of 28 degrees Celsius
with monthly maxima of 38 degrees Celsius.
2)   Sahelo-Sudanese zone
Dry tropical climate - N'Djamena, Bongor. Bokoro, Mongo and Am Timan
region.
-   Annual rainfall: 950 to 500 mm.
-    Rainy season: 4 to 5 months - May-June to September, with
maximum rainfall in July and August (300 mm in East, 250 mm in
the N'DJamena area).
-   Dry season: 7 to 8 months - October to April-May, no rainfall in
November, December and January (East), and December, January and
February (N'Djamena).
-   Mean annual temperatures: 28 to 30 degrees Celsius, with monthly
maxima exceeding 40 degrees Celsius.



- 75 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 15
3)   Sshelo-Saharan zone
Semi-desert climate - Bol, N'Gouri, Am N'DJamena and Abeche region.
-    Annual rainfall: 500 to 200 mm.
-    Rainy seasons 3 months - July to September, with maximum
rainfall in July and August (over 150 mm).
-    Dry seasons 9 months - October to June, no rainfall from
Novembet to March.
-    Mean annual temperatures: 28 degrees Celsius with maxima
exceeding 50 degrees Celsius on bare ground.
4)   Saharan zone
Tropical and Saharan desert climate - Fada, Faya, Bardai and Aouzou region.
-   Annual rainfall: 200 to 50 mm.
-    Sparse rainfall possible between July and September.
-   Mean annual temperaturest 35 degrees Celsius with maxima
exceeding 50 degrees Celsius on bare ground.
With respect to hygrometry, air water vapor content is close to saturation
during the rainy season, and low to very low during the dry season. The
humidity level varies substantially during the day in the dry season, and
less in the rainy season.
Evaporation is considerable, increasing from South to North. Approximate
annual values are 2000 mm in the South, 3000 mm In the central zone, and in
excess of 4000 mu in the desert zone (evaporation values measured with a
PICHE instrument).
Major variations in annual rainfall from year to year should also be noted.
In 1984, the 200 mm isohyet was situated close to N'Djamene, Ati and
Abeche, whereas in a normal year, these towns are not far from the 500 mm
isohyet.
Rainfall distribution is indicated on the following map.



- 76 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 15
CAM nLmurET
s00
-                                      jo
4 0 / 
A 



- 77 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 15
1.2 SOILS
The soils encountered in Chad correspond to the following geological
formationss
-    Terminal continental
-    Old quaternary
-    Recent quaternary
-    Primary (solid rock)
Various geological soil formations can be observed:
-    primary formations: granitic rock;
-    terminal continental and old to middle quaternary formations:
old, shallow or outcropping ferruginous shields,
ferralitic levels,
*    old series adulterated with more or less silty sands;
-    recent quaternary formationst
*    fluvio-lacustrian series with clay-sands, incorporating
limestone nodules, covered to a greater or lesser extent by
clays or silts,
*    fluvio-lacustrian series with erg sand-clays, incorporating
quartz and coarse sands,
recent sandy series, accumulated in the major river
depressions, resulting from sedimentation, and
progressively finer towards the North,
recent lacustrian clay series, with fine clay sediment, and
gravelly sand or pebbly clay in piedmont areas,
very recent to contemporary alluvial series, with clay-silt
or silt-sand sediment.



lN                                          I
M    Ir j m I X



- 79 -
Annex 7
Page 6 of 15
Few of these soils present good road construction characteristics.
Distribution of the different types is excessively interleaved. The
southern part of Chad includes ferruginous and ferralitic soils. Along the
rivers (Logone and Chari) hydromorphous soils are encountered, bordered by
black tropical clays, extended substantially to the East of the Chari and
round Lake Chad, with semi-arid and ferralitic soil intrusions.
Erosion soils are encountered to the North of a line from N'Djamena to
Abeche, with sandstone and sandy desert soils in the dry valleys of the far
north. Depressions are frequently filled with saline and sodic soils (see
map). In view of the diversity, heterogeneity and dispersion of the soils,
a simplified classification system has been adopted, based on CBR bearing
capacity after 4-day soaking, giving a direct indication of 'road' quality
for earthworks.
SOIL CLASSIFICATION
Class               CBR bearing capacity
Si                  < 5X
S2                  5 to IOZ
S3                  10 to 152
S4                  15 to 30X
S5                  > 30X



- 80 -
Annex 7
Page 7 of 15
PART 2
TECBNCAL STANDARDS FOR ROADS
2.1  GEOMETRICAL STANDARDS
The geometrical standards applicable to the road system in the Republic of
Chad are illustrated in diagrams 211 and 212 on pages 16 and 17.
For surfaced roads, distinction is made between rural sections, and the
urban sections of national highways.
For unsurfaced roads, standards are based on a certain level of heavy
vehicle traffic (DLW exceeding 3 T).



'lift
II              Ii                          I _
.f-t
#4
012                                [4
*
a              d                          7gIjI
-               II Ii                      ala                       I *
tt.i'.    ii
01 '1'L
jJ           a           I L       i ii
             **   L
I
1                         1
3-
-        U                   I
1                     3IS                   a



i    E  8.        I            I!
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1 5    ..
*             3 



- 83 -
Annex 7
Page 10 of 15
2.2 TECHNICAL GUIDELINES FOR TYPICAL PAVEMENT STRUCTURES
For surfaced roads, these pavement structures depend on the quality of the
underlying soil strata (Si, $2, etc.) and traffic level (Ti, T2, etc.).
Data sheets A to D indicate the typical structures recomnended for the main
materials used.
For unsurfaced roads, wearing course and grading course structures take
account of the quality of underlying soil strata (Si, S2, etc.) and the
level of service (Ni, N2, etc.) associated with the traffic carried.
Different structures are proposed (data sheet El for different regions, and
the different materials encountered.



- 84 -
Annex 7
Page 11 of 15
TSECNICAL GUIDELIMNS FOR SURFACED ROADS
TYPICAL PAVEENT STRUCTURES                                    Data sheet A
Road bases crusher-run stone (CRS)
Sub-base: clay sand (CS)
T I              T 2
_~~~~ I
Mm i.
-                   -    -    -       -a" !- IZo
5 3
PAVISME  sMc
4 I



- 85 -
Pase 12 of 15
TICMCAL GUIDELIMES FOR S11RFACED ROADS
TYPICAL PAVMENTTRCTURES                                            Data sheet B
Road base: clay sand - cement (CS/C)
Sub-bases clay sand (CS)
"  Iu*           Tt:2                  13
S 1 ~15SuLOS:CL
Is   I 
SI 2
-                                            .
PAl  __.



- 86 -
Azmex 7
Page 13 of 15
TECHNICAL GUIDELIJES FOR SFACED RADS
TYPICAL PAVEMENT STRUCTURES                               Data sheet C
Road bases bituminous sand (BS)
Sub-base: clay sand (CS)
T 1             T 2              TS
so _
IS 1  I           m    |A . 
1S.~ I   I                      4Iff,ES       I
S II
..2 S
~~~~I..... .I.m.u.m.w...I                    _ ..._...... ___ .... _,__,,__



- 87 -
Annex 7
Page 14 of 15
TECHNICAL GUIDELINES FOR SURFACED ROADS
TYPICAL PAVEMENT STRUCTURES                                            Data sheet D
Road base: natural gravel (NG)
Sub-base: natural gravel (NG)
T I                 T 2                 T
*O**s  15mR!       m.     4  15 NI
.                                                   (i~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
5 2                 SOLOi              3mLI
-3                                                                   .
*PAVEMEN
B    ~e -U    .                      -lZ3^-
.SF  ^Fl-$4J 



IMCMUCAL ouruiLtz    ame Sns&u. m   - 13IC1L                 f     1l
Ibiless in as - CC * radin  oouo-e
I                         Srattlo   t                        Strtle  I                                ?rttle
I         31 t(< 5    1                      t 2              5-"0   I          3 3              to-15 i5s0
____ ___ ___    _ ___ ____ ___ ___ _   i 1/dWU   I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   W / isy  I _ __ __ __ __ __
I  taitierlt          1   20    1 rum .bil.                         I LAteritte             I  a1 2S   -10
I  t   olISMAa   ni                                           as 2 5    I                     I          I 1
I (Sem)                 I " oc:   I                       I            (0t It )               I I        I *   I
c  s     rI  smo md no$ soils                I p rt  Md ia- o s)   1      U  30
I " o amw {hn             20    I                                   I *                     I   3      I   35
cm1Ss   Im imiieeLs                          I"usbnuf3u)             I    ly                                        I   J
soeil* (outiet         I    *     II                                                                    I
I east,  orth at",    I OCats  I (Centre)                I  01S  I (iorth)                  I  00.15   I GO*20
__________ _ Last. ISerm Cen") I                                                    1           I                      I   -
I Latrltt                            i                                   _L"itile             I          I                  I
I                      1   20    1sa o   us  ts  soilsl        2     1                        I   25    1   30              cm
I (SOu)        _      I  ____1*_l                                                              * -I { S o u. I
Inr i ois              I           I                      I           Ia I F sil       s DlI
S2    1Sol" NWfinesol"  1   20   1(Mr  old l-got)                              I   I       p                30    1   35
-_w am" II"             
s5 to lo; I 1Ia, 1TJe ZeF"                      I rime soils            1I                 a                I _
oils(astform            1   20    I                        1   30    1                        1   25    1   30
I Lat. Earth at,        I          I (Centre)                         I (orth)                I          I
I amot, tr             I            IC snoiloI   -                     I  a
ILatF 1emis $"Io                                                      I bi    20              1 t  20    I   2
aeee             e~~~~ae  see" am am                  aeI
I(      U)e             I          I                       I          I-lSouth 
SI   Sms~is.oie a20                    I(or:.n3-as))                       I                        2
C 5 to 105 I 4          soisI -miemle                                               I             iam1 1
soils ("A port             20                             1   2S    I1   10    Ils o
B t, oth at,            I          I (Caetre)              2          1 (rt)                                       I %
_,  _.Centr.) Ie                   I                       I       _ I                        !_        . 
-I



-L                                                       69| L~O & e[idw    eJ| 9.
due
dD9~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~6 
..d
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
v~~~~~DUIL   UAoAUA
l   PN  NIl  Ia IUUW.  SSSUdXlAU  U   M11



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DES TRANSPORTS ET DE L'AUIATION CIUILE
fliKIlStli                   lg
.X~~~~~~~~~~~  N I I a_
I As X  _. _s NX                      Itln I    g                                1  ^lna  
....:~tir1a    ;       ies  .            ..ecolto sit
e  s ,,sOrur:  .'Exa:,        6fS~leeds     ,S.sr 10ts9a  L   -    6vis          Ser vi ,d,    _
tt~~~~ ,,1r,,,. _              InttVv^ -ltog 1rI4stZ  r""     _ HYt':^         IaIn
. j  616  STiL         5                          I
.            ..   _   _    1.  _           |   __ ._ ____   _ f   I__  _  _ _ _ _ j  _ _ _ _ _ _
9~~~~~~~~~~~*ew Ift>e  |      ;.0{$r{n.,     "rt*I|
L   t   1  .  E"g, . J | | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~stvit     



ORGANIGRAMN  DE L'OFFICE NATIONAL DES ROUTES
~~~~ -                                  j.                        r-  ---_
____--~~~~~~~~~~~~~eS  _*_jetn
ci I                                                                       I     .                          I*
EI. I. ll     R .s.                                               t



MAP SECTION



,!32+-         ~~~4-               1'iS'                                 20                  22                 2 
I                                                                      2' ~~~~1,  s-2i2'4' 
N.             ..-.<         ..                                    C H A D                                  ARAB
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                               REP.
'...%4              INVESTMENT PROJECT (TSAIP)                        OF
22'                                                                               High P Niority tork to be Rehabilitated by  2EGYPT
the=edo 1993 xtwne TSAIP Prolect OF18
\   9Aoa         .           tigh Priraity Network Rehoblitoted by the eNd of 1988
\BA            /                           Orngolg Pro-dts.j
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g   P4rW/,iog rity Nrhrk rof tpvdRoads rAnd    Rh  !tt
UA   r  Ferrlor to bepkxed
Bridge so be Renon*vcte
NIGER\   ( 'I-  UtY                                                       AtriptlSecndary Akpoh to be Rebabilitated
;   .       %  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i ~~~~~~Rooed N  tworlu
>     \>ff_-_  ~~~       ~ ~~20-                                   5 1 Engrnd                               _      20%
NICGER   I                                     I--                               ParHoialy E_kerd!
/            !                                                    __-  RMo r Earth Trodk 
,/     CHAD                   I     j                       Ex.AkftgORNAR Regio.nl     Rood Materk!
Lake           /                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to be Rehobilitated  ~ ltft
ad   J          j                 \        <3  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPNA4R Regioniil Agersy  i    lt it
tNIqa,,G ,,a         .>SUDAN                                      Mo r i                    Feirybo k
Jia.    N    ~~~~~~~    Alrtfrlpu       -    lo~~~~~~~Iternational Betindo'len 
CAM!R0~tJ... .-    REPUBLIC 'N.    1
NIGER                 J                           '-                           i
14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Mod ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~         i'r N.                                                 SUDAN
-12                                                                                                                                 1
NIGERIA          5N
bLv  --- e;~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'--
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03 12'  6  1'  20                 22
'C                              I                   I                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR



