 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14864

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/19/2015

               Country: Kyrgyz Republic
             Project ID: P107608                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: National Road                 Project Costs (US$M):                       30.7                 52.5
                         Rehabilitation
                         (osh-batken-isfana)
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       25.0                 46.8
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 11/03/2009
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2013           12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (90%); Public administration- Transportation
                           (10%)
          Theme(s):        Trade facilitation and market access (40%); Rural services and infrastructure (40%);
                           Regional integration (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objective: " (i) to contribute to the reduction of transport costs and travel time along the Osh-Batken-Isfana
Road corridor; and (ii) to improve road safety planning" (Financing Agreement dated December 3, 2009, p.4; Project
Appraisal Document, p.6).

Revised Objective: "to: (i) contribute to the reduction of transport costs and travel time along the Osh-Batken-Isfana
Road corridor; (ii) improve road safety planning; and (iii) repair and rehabilitate road infrastructure in and around Osh
and Jalal- Abad cities, thereby creating temporary jobs" (Financing Agreement dated October 1, 2010, p.5).

The second sub-objective was further expanded in 2011 to include support in road asset management. As per the
Financing Agreement dated July 25, 2011:

"to: (i) contribute to the reduction of transport costs and travel time along the Osh-Batken-Isfana Road corridor; (ii)
improve road safety planning and road asset management; and (iii) repair and rehabilitate road infrastructure in and
around Osh and Jalal-Abad cities, thereby creating temporary jobs".


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/30/2010

c. Components:
Original Components:

1. Rehabilitation of a Section of the Osh -Batken-Isfana Road Corridor (appraisal cost US$27.29 million). The
component was to finance the provision of works and consultants’ services for rehabilitation of about 30 km of the
Osh-Batken-Isfana road corridor.

2. Road Safety Planning Improvement (appraisal cost US$1.5 million). This component was to finance the provision
of goods, and consultants’ services for: (i) development and launch of a national road safety program; (ii) preparation
of demonstration projects for road safety; and (iii) improvement of road safety planning.

3. Project Management and Implementation (appraisal cost US$1.93 million). This component was to finance the
provision of goods, consultants’ services, training, and operating costs, including an audit.

Revised Components:

1. Road Repairs and Rehabilitation ( actual cost US$50.3 million) included the provision of works and consultants’
services for rehabilitation of road segments of the Osh-Batken-Isfana corridor; repair of urban roads within the city of
Osh and the assessment of financing options for road maintenance activities by municipalities; rehabilitation of urban
roads in and around the cities of Osh and Jalal-Abad.

2. Road Safety Enhancement and Road Asset Management ( actual cost US$1.1 million) included provision of goods
and consultants’ services for: (i) development and launch of a national road safety program; (ii) preparation of pilot
demonstration projects for road safety; (iii) improvement of road safety planning; and (iv) development and
implementation of a road asset management system.

3. Project Management and Implementation (actual cost US$1.09 million) included the provision of goods,
consultants’ services, training, and operating costs, including an audit and consultant’s services to develop and
implement a communications strategy for project activities.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The total project cost increased by 84% from the appraisal estimate by project closure due to the
increase in scope and additional works.

Financing: The original IDA commitment was a credit in the amount of US$13.75 million and a grant in the amount of
US$11.25 million to total US$25 million. During implementation, the IDA financing increased twofold: the first
Additional Financing was approved on September 30, 2010 in the amount of US$10 million (credit: US$5.5 million;
grant: US$4.5 million) to scale up road rehabilitation activities and create temporary jobs in areas affected by the civil
unrest. The second Additional Financing was approved on June 28, 2011 in the amount of US$16 million (credit:
US$8.8 million; grant: US$7.2 million) to rehabilitate an additional section of the Osh-Batken-Isfana road corridor
(Nookat Pass) and provide technical assistance to improve road asset management. At closure, the total IDA
financing constituted US$46.74 million; about US$4 million were cancelled due to savings from the road safety
activities, depreciation of the local currency, as well as cancellation of the project activity on development of a road
accident database. There was no other external partner financing.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$5.71 million at closure, which is slightly lower than the original
commitment of US$5.76 million at appraisal. No Borrower contribution was planned for the additional financing.

Dates: The project's original implementation period of 44 months was extended twice by a total of 18 months due to
increase in project scope during two additional financing (AF). The first extension was for six months during the first
AF, and the second extension was for an additional 12 months during the second AF. There were two other project
restructurings in July and December 2014, which involved reallocation and cancellation of funds.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective: High.
The project development objectives were relevant to the key Government's priorities set in the Road Sector Strategy
Development Strategy 2007-2010 and the Presidential Program of Roads Development for 2008-2010. The
Osh-Batken-Isfana Road Corridor was one of the country's six strategic corridors. At the time of appraisal, fatal road
accidents in the Kyrgyz Republic were 30 times higher than in Western Europe and 3 times higher than in Eastern
Europe and Asia. The World Bank Group together with the World Health Organization took the leading role
internationally to improve road safety. The objectives were also consistent with the Sustainable Development Strategy
of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2013-2017 and the Road Transport Development Strategy for 2011-2015. The objectives
were relevant to the World Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy FY 2014-2017 at project closure, which
supported the expansion of domestic and regional transport connectivity. The objectives were also in line with the
main priorities of the Joint Country Support Strategy (2007-2010) at appraisal, the key goals of which included
improvement of transport infrastructure that provides access to local and regional markets.

Revised Objective: High
The revised objectives were equally consistent with the Government's priorities and Bank's Strategies for the Kyrgyz
Republic at closure and throughout the implementation. The social unrest during April and June 2010 in the Kyrgyz
Republic negatively affected the livelihood of a large number of households in the cities of Osh and Jalal -Abad in the
southwest. The Commission for Assessment of Damages estimated that about 4,000 people lost employment,
primarily in services and trades. Recommendations for the short-term included developing employment opportunities
using cash-for-work and labor-intensive public works initiatives targeted to households affected by the events and
other economically vulnerable groups.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Objective: Substantial.
The statement of the original development objectives was clear. It was also specific; any change in project activities or
scope expansion had to trigger a new formulation of the objective. The project results framework indicated a clear
causal chain between the activities financed by the project and the outcomes related to the attainment of the
development objectives. For example, with regard to physical investments in rehabilitation of selected sections of the
Osh-Batken-Isfana (Component 1), the activities were meant to contribute to the reduction in transport costs and
travel time along the corridor. Road safety activities under Component 2 were intended to improve road safety
planning.

Revised Objective: Substantial.
The statement of the revised development objectives was clear. It included a new third sub-objective, which was
rather output oriented; it reflected an emergency response to help mitigate the impact of social crisis in 2010 through
creation of jobs in vulnerable communities. The second sub-objective was expanded to include road asset
management. The causal chain between the activities and the expected outcomes was convincing. The project design
was adjusted to reflect an increased scope, in particular additional repair and rehabilitation works on urban roads in
and around Osh and Jalal-Abad cities and technical assistance in road asset management.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

* A split rating is used in the assessment of efficacy; the statement of the objectives was modified to include two additional
objectives during two restructurings, while preserving the original ones. Refer to Section 6 below.

Original and revised objective : (i) To contribute to the reduction of transport costs and travel time along the
Osh-Batken-Isfana Road corridor . Rated Substantial.

Outputs
  50 km of the Osh-Batken-Isfana road corridor were rehabilitated as targeted (32 km of the Pulgon-Burgandy
    section and 18 km of Nookat Pass).

Outcomes
  Transport costs for road users by car decreased from US$0.30 to US$0.25 (against the target of US$0.27) on the
    Pulgon-Burgandy section (32 km) and from US$0.29 to US$0.27 on Nookat Pass (18 km) of the
    Osh-Batken-Isfana road corridor.
  Travel time declined from 50 min to 25 min on Pulgon-Burgandy section, which substantially exceeded the target
    of 45 minutes, and from 18 to 15 minutes on Nookat Pass, as targeted.
  Direct project beneficiaries were estimated at about 1.27 million, out of which 508,196 or 40% were women. The
    ICR does not explain how they arrived at this estimate; the targeted female beneficiaries were 50% (ICR's data
    sheet, Indicator 12). The ICR also estimates that there was a 4% increase in rural population who live within 2 km
    from the OBI corridor.
  Number of vehicles increased from 3,047 in 2010 to 4,589 in 2015 (average annual daily traffic) on the
    Pulgon-Burgandy section (target was 4,570), and from 5,910 to 6,685 vehicles on Nookat Pass (target was
    7,200).

Under Original and Revised outcome targets : (iia) To improve road safety planning . Rated Substantial.
Outputs
  The National Road Safety Program was prepared and adopted as a sector policy of the Ministry of Transport and
    Communication, as planned.
  Two black spot demonstration projects for road safety were developed and implemented as planned.
  A new road accident database was not established as planned due to delays in procurement and lack of interest
    on the part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIS) and the State Auto Inspection (SAI).

Outcomes
  The outcome target on development and launch of the National Road Safety Program was achieved. During
    project implementation, Vice Prime Minister of the country and Minister of Transport aspired to convert the new
    Program into the National Road Safety Strategy, however this was not supported by other road safety
    stakeholder agencies, in particular the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIS) and the State Auto Inspection (SAI). The
    project team informed that the EU-funded project is working with the Members of the National Road Safety
    Council to develop the Action Plan based on the National Road Safety Program and find ways for building the
    support of MIA and Police for the development of a new road accidents database that would have more
    meaningful data to support the new Road Safety Program.

Revised Objective: (iib) Improve road asset management . Rated Substantial.

Outputs
  Road condition data were collected for 1,377 km of roads (against the target of 1,500 km of core road network)
    and entered into the GIS-based Road Asset Management System (RAMS). Up to date the RAMS database holds
    inventory for 18,000 km of roads and road condition data for 1,377 km of roads.

Outcomes
  The project team informed that in 2015 the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC) established a Road
    Asset Management Unit under the Road Management Department, which is in charge of operating and
    maintaining RAMS financed by the project as well as Bridge and Tunnel Asset Management funded by JICA.
    MOTC prepared a draft Road Development Strategy up to 2025, which includes introduction of RAMS in Action
    Plan of the draft Strategy, and proposal to revise the normative legal acts. RAMS is being used by the Road
    Management Department in its planning process, in particular to prioritize road sections (entered in the database
    up to date) for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation.


Revised Objective: (iii) Repair and rehabilitate road infrastructure in and around Osh and Jalal - Abad cities, thereby
creating temporary jobs . Rated Substantial.

Outputs
  350 km of urban roads were rehabilitated within the city of Osh as planned. This included asphalt pavement of 18
    km of streets, rehabilitation of 55.5 km of gravel roads, potholes patching on 153 km of streets, and cleaning
    ditches and drainage systems.
  4.69 km of Osh airport street and 9.75 km of Osh bypass were rehabilitated as targeted.

Outcomes
  The outcome target was creation of temporary jobs in vulnerable communities, in particular in the districts with
    mixed ethnic composition. This was achieved; as reported, 5,100 person- months jobs were created against the
    target of 5,000.


5. Efficiency:

Economic Analysis. The ex-post economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for two major road works packages
(Pulgon-Burgandy road and Nookat pass) is estimated to be 65.1% as compared with the ex-ante EIRR of 57.1%. The
analysis followed the same methodology based on the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). The
main estimated benefits were savings in vehicle operation costs savings, travel time, and road maintenance costs. For
the Pulgon-Burgandy road (32 km), the EIRR increased from 74.5 to 91.1% due to lower rehabilitation costs and
higher traffic growth rates compared with the appraisal estimates. The initially high EIRR was due to the fact that the
project mainly upgraded the road from unpaved to paved surface, which results in a marked decrease of road user
costs (PAD, Annex 9). For the Nookat pass of 18 km, the EIRR decreased from 28.0 to 21.7% due to higher
rehabilitation costs and lower traffic growth rates compared with the appraisal estimates. No ex-post evaluation of the
urban roads in and around the greater Osh and Jalal- Abad cities financed under AF1 was carried out as relevant data
could not be obtained.
Cost effectiveness. The actual unit costs for the Pulgon-Burgandy road section were 24% higher than the contracted
values and 30% higher for Nookat Pass due to changes in design (upgrade in works). If compared to the original
estimates, the final unit costs of US$ 0.75 million/km for the Pulgon-Burgandy section were 83 % of the engineer’s
estimated costs of US$ 0.91 million/km at the detailed design stage, and the actual unit costs for Nookat pass were
109% of the estimated costs, despite the increase in the actual scope of works. As reported by the project team, the
actual cost per km of US$0.75 million for rehabilitation of a two-lane paved Pulgon -Burgandy road is comparable to
the unit costs of similar works in the Central Asian countries.

The project closing date was extended by 1.5 years to reflect the increase in scope through additional activities. At
closure, about US$4 million of IDA funds were cancelled for reasons that included savings from the road safety
activities, depreciation of the local currency, as well as cancellation of the road accident database (US$0.5 million).

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                      57.1%                                    93%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                      65.1%                                    90%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original objectives: Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project achieved all of
its objectives to a substantial extent. Efficiency is assessed as substantial. The outcome rating for the original project
objectives is rated Satisfactory.

Revised objectives:
Under both additional financing, relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project
substantially achieved all of its objectives. Efficiency is assessed as substantial. The outcome rating for the revised
project objectives under both project restructurings is rated Satisfactory.

The overall outcome is rated Satisfactory. If a split rating is applied at the first additional financing on September 30,
2010 and the second additional financing on June 28, 2011, the disbursement shares are 1.8% ($0.8 million) prior to
the first AF, 12% ($5.62 million) prior to the second AF, and subsequently 86.2% of the total Bank financing of
US$46.75 million.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Routine maintenance and emergency works of the entire Osh-Batken-Isfana corridor are under the responsibility
      of MOTC. A newly approved World Bank Central Asia Road Links Program (CARs-I) supports improvement of
      road operations and maintenance practices, including the establishment of Service Level Agreement between
      MOTC and the Osh-Batken-Isfana Roads Department to maintain the entire corridor.

     As for maintenance of the project urban roads and streets in Osh with involvement of local communities,
      sustainability is uncertain due to budget constraints of the local municipality.

     There is an arrangement in place to continue the RAMS development and maintenance. The Road Safety
      Commission requires further technical strengthening and budget allocation for the effective implementation of the
      National Road Safety Program. Stronger commitment is required from MIA and SAI for the development of a new
      road accidents database that would have more meaningful data to support the new Road Safety Program.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project preparation took about two years; the updated feasibility study, detailed designs and the bidding
documents were prepared for the entire Osh-Batken-Isfana road corridor. The Bank, as per the government’s
request, took the lead in leveraging funds from other development partners to secure financing for phase I of the
road corridor. The team also assisted the government to secure a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) to update
the feasibility study for the entire corridor.

Most risks were properly identified and mitigated. While the importance of greater coordination between road
safety stakeholder agencies was acknowledged, a lack of efficient coordination and cooperation between the key
stakeholder government institutions (MIA and MoTC) was not recognized as a risk in the PAD (section E). The
fiduciary and safeguards arrangements were appropriate, and the M&E design was adequate overall, but with
minor shortcomings.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were carried out two or three times a year (overall, there were ten missions as per ICR's
Annex 9). The Aide Memoires were found informative; they provided detailed discussion of emerging issues and
solutions to address them. The project team was actively supporting the implementation of civil works, and quickly
responded with the first additional financing to help the Government mitigate the impact of social unrest through
provision of temporary jobs for conflicting ethnic communities. The second additional financing was processed to
support another road section and road asset management strengthening. It's due to Bank's pro-active approach
that the National Road Safety Program was officially approved by the Minister of Transport. The team's
involvement was however less intensive in the last year of project implementation. As was subsequently clarified
by the project team, additional missions were warranted in the last year of project implementation to address
issues related to the road safety component.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

As per ICR, the Government's commitment was strong during project preparation and implementation. It financed
the share of the projects costs, albeit slightly lower than committed. The Government appreciated the
development of a National Road Safety Program and had aspirations for upgrading its status from the level of a
sector policy document to the level of a national policy document, i.e., converting it to the National Road Safety
Strategy. However, due to the change of leadership in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its lack of interest, the
consensus was not reached on a number of the proposed actions and recommendations included in the Strategy.
Also, lack of ownership and coordination between the key road safety agencies ( Ministry of Internal Affairs and
State Auto Inspection) led to delays in establishing the road accident database.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) was responsible for the implementation of all transport
related projects. The Investment Projects Implementation Group (IPIG) within MOTC was responsible for the
financial management function of the project, including flow of funds, budgeting, internal control, accounting,
reporting, and auditing, as well as for supervision of the environmental safeguards. Frequent changes in the
composition of the Government did not affect MOTC. The ICR p.9 notes that the State Secretary, who was later
directly involved in IPIG, ensured continuity of the project and MOTC’s dedication to it; his extensive sector
experience and leadership skills benefited project implementation and ensured the coordination of all work in the
sector and on the road corridor financed by multiple donors. All major civil works contracts were completed by the
project closing date. As for the completion of institutional activities, there were delays in implementation of RAMS,
which was not fully completed as planned at project closure. The ICR p. 22 notes that the MOTC and IPIG built on
the prior support of other donors in developing a simplified RAMS under this project (i.e., JICA and ADB). MOTC
took the lead in securing support of the First Deputy Prime Minister for the National Road Safety Plan and other
road safety stakeholder agencies; the support of MIA and SAI was not attained though. As noted by the ICR p.10,
apart from the lack of interest from MIA and SAI, the procurement of the road accidents database was significantly
delayed due to the IPIG’s delayed procurement process.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   There were five outcome indicators; two of them reflected the project's statement of the first sub-objective, i.e.,
reduction of transport costs and time. They included baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (PAD
Annex 3). The outcome of the increased effectiveness of road safety planning was not measurable; the indicator
further specified that 'road safety planning is conducted in an integrated and comprehensive manner'. Progress in
achievement of the road safety sub-objective was monitored through the intermediate indicator of the development
and launch of the Road Safety Strategy. The ICR p. 11 finds that other indicators, such as mainstreamed application
of road safety audits to all designs (entirely dependent on MOTC) would be more appropriate to demonstrate changes
in the road safety planning process.

The results framework and associated monitoring indicators were revised during additional financing to reflect the
increased project scope. The first two outcome indicators were separated into indicators for two major project sections
of the road corridor.

IPIG was responsible for the collection of project’s performance indicator data and analysis of the results.

b. M&E Implementation:
  Progress towards achievement of the final targets was monitored through regular project progress reports by
MOTC and Bank’s Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR notes that the indicator for road user costs (US$ per vehicle per km) was adopted by MOTC and is to be
used in the new CARS project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “B” project that triggered two safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.

Environmental Assessment The ICR p.12 reports that there were no major environmental issues associated with the
implementation of the project. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) were prepared by the Client and disclosed; they remained applicable under additional financing. Site-specific
EMPs were prepared and included in the bidding documents and works contracts under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB). The issues related to landscaping of the borrow pits, handling of construction waste and sanitation were
addressed by the contractors during implementation of civil works. Adequate mitigation measures were timely
developed and implemented to prevent potential erosion and landslide at the Nookat pass (this had not been originally
envisaged by the initial design).
Involuntary Resettlement : A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared in accordance with the policy
requirements and disclosed. At appraisal, possible impacts were identified to include the acquisition of agricultural
land, gardens, trees, and walls, and in exceptional cases residential and commercial structures. A grievance handling
mechanism was established under the project to register and address the communities’ concerns and grievances.
Seven roadside businesses were affected by the project on the Nookat pass under the second additional financing,
and a total compensation of about KGS 350,000 (US$7,000) was paid to these businesses. The ICR does not report
any grievance from these project- affected businesses.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: Procurement was carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines through International
Competitive Bidding for the civil works contracts and through National Competitive Bidding for the civil works contracts
financed under the first AF due to emergency nature of the project. An individual procurement consultant with
international experience was hired to assist the Evaluation Committee Members to work closely with the international
consulting company to prepare the updated feasibility study for the project, and a full-time procurement consultant
was hired to support the implementation of works under additional financing. The ICR p.13 reports that there were no
unresolved procurement issues.

Financial management: According to the ICR p.14, there were no major issues in financial management. MOTC was
in compliance with the audit covenant, and interim unaudited financial reports were acceptable to the Bank. Annual
audit reports were received on time, and the auditor’s opinion was unqualified.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Both Government and Implementing
                                                            Satisfactory       Agency Performance is assessed as
                                                                               Moderately Satisfactory for lack of
                                                                               coordination between stakeholder
                                                                               agencies and delayed procurement
                                                                               processes.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are adapted from the ICR:

    A road corridor design approach is advisable in preparation and implementation of similar road projects . This
     could also help the government leverage financing from other donors.
    Development of new software systems should be well coordinated between all donors present in the
     country’s sector . Donors have their own road asset management systems which they offer to the client. Under
     this project, a simplified RAMS version was built on the previous efforts of JICA and ADB.

    Achieving inter-agency coordination and ownership requires time . Building all the stakeholders' ownership of
     road safety activities aligned with best international practices was not reached within this project's time-frame.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and results- oriented. The ICR provides explanations for important elements of the preparation
and implementation experience. It offers a good analysis of the monitoring and evaluation design. Lessons are
evidence based. The Borrower's comments in Annex 7 are insightful, in particular on issues in road safety planning
improvements.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
