Document of
The World Bank                    IE  G
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3283-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
April 26, 1982
Il Ts document has a restricted dstbatiga and my be used by recipients oly in the perfnoumne of
their offcial dies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Kyat (k)
kyat 1            =    100 pyas
$1.00             =    7 kyats
K 1.00            =    $0.143
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 fodt (ft)                   =       0.305 meters
1 mile (mi)                   =       1.609 kilometers
1 Round (lb)                  =       0.453 kilograms
1 ton                         =       1,000 kilograms
1 barrel                      =       159 litre
1 imperial gallon             =       4.546 litres
1 kilowatt (kw)               =       1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)               =       1,000 kilowatts (kw)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)       =       1,000 kilo volt ampere (kVA)
1 megavar (MVAR)              =       1,000 kilo volt ampere reactive (kVAR)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)         =       1,000 watt hours
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)         =       1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)               =       1,000 volts (v)
1 k cal (kilo calorie)        =       1,000 calories (Cal)
1 k cal (kilo calorie)        =       3,968 British Thermal Unit (BTU)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      =      Asian Development Bank
EPC      =      Electric Power Corporation
FY       =      Financial Year
GDP      =     Gross Domestic Product
ICB      =      International Competitive Bidding
KfW      =      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LRMC     =      Long Run Marginal Cost
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Programme
$        =     US Dollars
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:             Electric Power Corporation (EPC)
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights 70.1 million
(US$80.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Onlending Terms:         25 years including 5 years of grace with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum. The Government will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project would provide for transmission
of power from generation facilities already
established or under construction. It would help
ensure a comprehensive, integrated approach to the
development of EPC's transmission facilities and
would also make a substantial contribution to
improving the efficiency of EPC's power system.  In
addition, the project would address important
issues relating to EPC's operations and the
Government's policies in the power sector, namely,
level and structure of power tariffs, reducing
system losses and strengthening EPC's planning
capability and financial organization and
operation.
The project would comprise: (i) installation of
single circuit transmission lines of about 414 km
of 230 kV and 229 km of 132 kV; (ii) construction
and expansion of eight substations of 230 kV, 132
kV, and 66 kV with an aggregate transformer
capacity of 330 MVA; and (iii) load Dispatch Center
and meter testing equipment; (iv) consulting
services for project management, system loss
reduction, establishing a planning unit and
fixed asset accounting system; (v) feasibility
study of a suitable hydro-electric project
to be selected to follow the proposed Paunglaung
project; and (vi) training of EPC staff.
The project would be executed by EPC, an organization
experienced and capable in utility work, and thus
does not carry any unusual risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
$ Million Equivalent
Estimated Cost:                                           Foreign   Local  Total
Transmission                          31.6       4.9    36.5
Substations                           15.2      4.7    19.9
Load Dispatching Center                0.4         -     0.4
Meters & Meter Testing
Benches                               0.3         -     0.3
Supervisory Engineering                4.1        .5     4.6
Training                               1.0         -     1.0
Engineering and
Administration                        0.1       1.7     1.8
Feasibility Study of a
Hydroelectric Project                 2.5        .3     2.8
Total Base Cost                    55.2     12.1    67.3
Physical Contingencies                 5.9       1.3     7.2
Price Contingencies                   18.9      3.7    22.6
Local Taxes and Duties                   -     35.5    35.5
Total Project Cost                 80.0     52.6   132.6
Financing Plan:                                            $ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local  Total
IDA                                   80.0       -      80.0
EPC/Local Borrowing                      -     52.6    52.6
Total                                 80.0     52.6   132.6
Estimated
Disbursement
from IDA Credits:
$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY                  FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86   FY87
Annual                   6.0    25.5    38.5       6.0    4.0
Cumulative               6.0    31.5    70.0    76.0   80.0
Rate of Return:    18% if allowance made for consumer surplus using the cost of
alternatives and a minimum of 8% with consumer surplus but
assuming more conservative demand.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3769a-BA dated April 12, 1982
Map:                IBRD Nos. 14546R and 16002



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A POWER PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 70.1 million (US$80.0 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a Power Project. The proposed credit amount will
be onlent to the Electric Power Corporation for a term of 25 years, including
5 years grace, and interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Domestic and External
Resource Prospects" (Report No. 3908-BA, dated October 10, 1980) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on October 17, 1980. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
Government in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council. Then,
the Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December 1973, and
under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was created with supreme
executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program
Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the
Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being
implemented through a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been
President since 1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national
election in November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary
General of the BSPP.
4.      During the 1960 and early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political objectives. These
included increased government ownership of economic assets, greater equality
in the distribution of income, and Burmanization of important professional
and managerial jobs. A fundamental change in the economic and social
structure resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size
of holdings among farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of
major economic activities in trade  nd industry   At the same time, access of
the population to social services was expanded, particularly with respect to
education and health facilities. Insurgency was and is still a problem,
however, particularly in the hills and border areas, although there is
probably greater territorial control by the Government now than at any time
since Independence in 1948.



-2-
5.      Burma's economic performance over this period, however, reflects the
severe disruption in ownership, management, and distribution systems which
accompanied the social restructuring. Public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
and production which resulted: and economic growth suffered, scarcely matching
population growth. Throughout the period, investment levels were low, with
gross capital formation averaging only 10-11% of GNP. Furthermore, investment
was excessively skewed toward nationalized industry, while such key, directly
productive sectors as agriculture, forestry, and mining did not receive due
attention.
6.      The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.  They
were aimed at keeping down the cost of living for the masses, and in many
instances, State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) were not allowed full recovery of
their costs, leading to a decline in their financial surpluses and hence in
domestic savings. Furthermore, low agricultural producer prices discouraged
the production of paddy and other crops and led to dwindling export earnings.
Low export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion. An increasing share of production was either traded in
the domestic unofficial market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of
official prices. In both cases, the tax base was undermined and income was
siphoned off by segments of the private sector with little opportunity or
inclination to invest these resources productively. The distortions arising
from this system were compounded by low, official interest rates and an
overvalued exchange rate.
7.      In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan.
The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the
context of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and
self-sufficiency by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based
industrial society, to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income
disparities. The Government's strategy for achieving these goals is
constantly evolving, with innovations proposed as new constraints are
encountered. The main elements of this strategy, however, appear to be: (a)
to give higher priority initially to the directly productive sectors,
especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make greater use of
aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assistance; (c) to follow a
price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction, through increased
efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture; and (d) to begin
to introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially in the
SEEs.
8.      Pricing policy still reflects the desire to provide basic consumer
goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it has begun to recognize the role
of prices in creating production incentives and financial viability.



Procurement prices of a variety of agricultural products were raised to
improve the economic position of the farmer, while others were decontrolled.
The procurement price for paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. In
1977/78 the procurement price for high quality paddy was increased by about
4-7%. In industry, the Government obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and
increased the ex-factory prices of SEEs, although the adjustments remain
incomplete. These new costing schedules, in principle, allow profit margins
at the producing level for the first time for a great majority of SEEs. The
a          official exchange rate of the kyat was devalued by 25% relative to the US
dollar in January 1975 and a further 9% relative to the SDR in 1977, thus
partially compensating for the overvaluation. The interest rate on savings
deposits was raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975 and raised again to 8% in
November 1977.
9.      In addition to these pricing reforms, the Government introduced
reforms in investment allocation, management of SEEs, and taxation. The
percentage of public investment which was allocated to agriculture (including
livestock, fishing, and forestry) in the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75 to
1977/78) increased to about 20%, compared to about 11% during the previous
decade. The share of mining rose from about 5% for the period 1963/64-1973/74
to about 11% in the Second Four-Year Plan. The share of industrial investment
which was allocated to consumer goods and light industries, however, was very
small. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to enable
SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of their
production. The guidelines introduce greater autonomy in the management of
SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance. Although problems remain, particularly in regard
to incentives for operational and investment efficiency, production trends and
financial performance have greatly improved. In April 1976, a major tax
reform was enacted. It included the introduction of a Commodities and
Services Tax and a Profits Tax and resulted in increasing UJnion Government
revenue from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78. This tax reform
represented a major turnaround in public finance and was perhaps the most
important achievement of the Government in recent years.
10.     In part as a result of these measures and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second
Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%,
compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation
increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a
percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary position of the
Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn,
contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation. The consumer price index
declined slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%,
during 1978. The average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and



-4-
increased external borrowing permitted an annual average real growth in
imports of 16%.
11.     More recently, during the first three years of the Third Four Year
Plan (1978/79-1981/82), Burma sustained an average annual real growth of 6.7%
which was accompanied by rising exports and relatively stable domestic prices.
The favorable GDP growth has been based on steadily rising agricultural
production, which increased from 9.3 million tons in 1977/88 to an estimated
13.1 million tons in 1980/81.  Gross fixed investment rose at an average
annual rate of 20% in real terms and was financed by increased inflow of
external assistance and expansion in domestic credit. On the other hand, the
Government's domestic resource mobilization efforts produced less satisfactory
results, and the consolidated public budgetary deficits deteriorated from 3%
of GDP in 1977/78 to 12% of GDP in 1980/81. In fact, despite the very
favorable development since the mid-seventies, much remains to be done to put
the economy firmly on the path to sustained and more rapid growth. the
problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential
farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of farm power
and basic farm services, in particular agricultural credit and extension
services. They also include the need for further production incentives
through increased agricultural producer prices and through a greater flow of
consumer goods to the rural areas. In industry, further adjustments of SEE
product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately,
to stimulate productivity growth, and to generate surpluses for reinvestment.
In external trade, the role and impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept
under continuing review, given the importance of greater export growth for
the development of the domestic economy. Greater export promotion efforts
for minor products must also be made.
12.     The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration, and
implementation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid in
its manner of operation and appears to focus excessively on the formulation of
targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and administrative apparatus,
decentralization of decision-making, and strengthening of the capability of
Government entities to prepare and implement projects are urgently needed.
13.     The Government recognizes the general nature of the problems and
issues to which attention must urgently be addressed. If appropriate actions
are taken, Burma is capable of a significant acceleration in economic growth.
In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the Private Enterprise" is
useful. The Rules and Regulations of this law have been issued, and
registration of enterprises is proceeding. It is hoped that by legitimizing
private sector activity and establishing a clear set of guidelines for the
development of the public, cooperative, and private sectors, some
reintegration of the economy will take place which can be expected to have a
beneficial impact upon economic performance.



-5-
14.     The Government's planned GDP growth for the Fourth Four-Year Plan is
6.0%, an ambitious target and one which will require external assistance for
projects contributing towards:
-  development of energy resources and conservation measures;
-  intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated areas
and reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture (research and
extension services, supply of essential inputs, especially
high-yielding varieties of planting materials, fertilizer and
light agricultural machinery; improvement of irrigation
facilities, in particular, tubewell development; and integrated
agricultural development);
-  better utilization of forestry resources (through the improvement
of extraction, processing, and transport facilities);
-  development of known mineral deposits; and
-  development of agro- and mineral-based industries which possess
clear comparative advantage (including food, fish, wood
products, and fertilizer production).
-  improved capacity utilization in manufacturing and transportation
through increased provision of materials and spare parts.
In addition to such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate existing
capacity in transportation and communications. the transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment, and maintenance.
While project loans and technical assistance can be used to address most of
these projects, commodity financing will also be required from external
sources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment
in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
15.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13% in the 1977/78 to about
20% in 1980/81, due primarily to a substantial increase in the loans from
private financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By the end of 1980,
Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately
$1.5 billion. Burma's exports have been showing steady growth in recent
years, and the potential for a continued upward trend is good. Nevertheless,
because of the rising debt service burden and because of Burma's low income
level, external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should, in
addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present, be
covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is particularly
needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a low foreign
exchange component.



-6-
16.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a
relatively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the
quality with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank
continues to discuss with the Government further improvements in economic
policy which might help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development as well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these
topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma
Aid Group meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request.
The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and
there have been three subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing
donor support each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totaling $33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
18.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending was
resumed in 1973 and since fifteen credits totaling $362.3 million equivalent
(net of cancellations) and two credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights
totaling SDR 43.7 million have been made. About 72% of this assistance was
for the agricultural sector, consisting of eleven projects: irrigation,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects, grain
storage, two forestry projects, a wood industries project, and the Kinda
(Nyaunggyat) Dam multipurpose project. About 10% of IDA's assistance
supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector through three projects,
namely inland water transport, railways, and a second ports project. The
remaining 18% of IDA's assistance has been for two projects in the
telecommunications sector (14%) and one project in the mining sector (4%).
Three credits have been fully disbursed so far. In general, IDA-financed
projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with
expectations. The proposed Credit would be the first in FY82. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits as of March 31,
1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no
investments in Burma.
19.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge of
some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.



-7-
A $4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture,
transport, power, and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber
Rehabilitation Projects (Credit Nos. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were
prepared under the Umbrella Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project
has been agreed with the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association
plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to
help improve Burmese project preparation and implementation capabilities, as
well as administrative and managerial skills through in-service and overseas
training.
20.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and
where possible, priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the
same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will continue in the
development of power and such areas as transportation, telecommunications, and
construction, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Inadequacy of
infrastructure has increasingly impeded economic activity in the directlY
productive sectors of the economy.
21.     In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
many of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. Negotiations have been
substantially completed for a project to strengthen the road building and
maintenance capacity of the construction industry. Other projects under
preparation include paddy development, tank irrigation, rubber rehabilitation,
agricultural credit, and textiles.
22.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - POWER SUB-SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
23.     Commercial primary energy, consisting of oil, natural gas, coal, and
hydropower accounts for about 35% of total energy used in Burma. The balance,
which is non-commercial, comprises mainly firewood and charcoal. Electric
energy accounts for about 15% of commercial energy of which more than 80%
comes from the facilities of the Electric Power Corporation (EPC). Total



-8-
installed capacity owned and operated by EPC amounts to about 500 MW while
other Government corporations own captive plants with an installed capacity of
135 MW.
Energy Potential
24.     Hydropower.  Burma has abundant potential hydro-power resources in its
river systems which drain the four main basins of Chindwin, Irrawaddy,
Sittang, and Salween. Estimated theoretical hydro-power potential is more
than 100,000 MW on an installed capacity basis and 370 billion kWh of annual
generation, of which about 5,000 MW and 20 billion kWh of annual generation
have been specifically identified as prospective hydro generation sites by
various pre-feasibility studies. This compares to Burma's present (January
1982) hydro development of only 260 MW of installed capacity, including 81 MW
(Sedawagyi and Kinda) under construction, which is less than one-half of one
percent of the country's theoretical potential. In view of rather limited
known amounts of fossil energy resources, further harnessing the country's
hydro potential to meet growing energy demand in the future should receive
high priority.
25.     Oil.  Crude oil is one of the major commercial energy sources in
Burma. Production has increased from 7.7 million barrels in FY76 to 11
million barrels in FY80, meeting the country's requirement and allowing for
exports of small amounts of petroleum products. Major oil fields are located
along the Irrawaddy river at Chauk, Yenaungyaung and Mann, but detailed
up-to-date information on total reserves is not available. Off-shore oil has
also been explored, but no positive results have been reported. Burma has
been exporting about one million barrels of furnace and residual oil annually
since 1978.
26.     Gas and Coal.  Major gas fields are also located along the Irrawaddy
river and close to the oilfields. The annual production has increased from
8.6 billion cubic feet in FY76 to 18 billion cubic feet in FY80. It is
planned to produce 25 billion cubic feet in FY82. Daily consumption in FY80
was about 49 million cubic feet, of which 44% was for power generation, 20%
for fertilizer production and the remainder for other industrial uses.
Detailed information on total gas reserves is not available, but the FY80
estimates for major gas fields indicated proven recoverable reserves of about
600 billion cubic feet corresponding to about 24 years' consumption at the
present production level. There are no known large reserves of coal and
annual production has varied from 10-30 thousand tons during the last five
years. The amount imported annually has also been small, at less than 100,000
tons.



Sector Organization
27.     Prior to 1951, the Burmese electric supply system had been operated by
several private companies, licensed under the 1910 Act, with a total installed
capacity of about 29 MW. The Rangoon Electricity Supply Company was the
largest company supplying Rangoon with an installed capacity of 16 MW. In
1951, the Government formed the Electricity Supply Board (ESB) under the
Electricity Supply Act of 1948, and all private electricity companies were
taken over by ESB. In 1972 ESB was reorganized into the Electric Power
Corporation, under the Ministry of No 2 Industry, which is now responsible for
the generation and transmission of electricity throughout Burma.
EPC's Power System
28.     The present EPC system comprises three main systems:  (a)
Hydro-Thermal Grid System, including the Lawpita hydro-power station (168 MW),
two thermal stations near Rangoon (gas turbines, 36 MW; oil-fired, 60 MW; and
diesel, 5 MW, totaling 101 MW), and the Kyanchaung gas turbine station (54
MW). Transmission lines of 402 km of 230 kV, 506 km of 132 kV, and 39 km of
66 kV interlink Lawpita and Kyunchaung power stations and connect Rangoon
thermal stations through 33 kV lines; (b) Prome-Myanaung-Myaungmya System,
consisting of the Myanaung gas turbine station (49 MW) linked to ten 66 kV
substations by 537 km of 66 kV line; and (iii) the Mann System, comprising the
Mann gas turbine station (36 MW) serving its locality through 33 kV and 11 kV
lines. In addition, there are isolated power stations (total 93 MW), and six
new plants are under construction -- three gas turbine stations (64 MW), an
oil-fired steam station (18 MW) and two hydro stations (81 MW). Seven
mini-hydro plants are also being constructed (6.85 MW).
Generation and Demand
29.     The total energy generated by EPC in FY80 was 1080 Gwh, of which 67%
was hydro, 24% gas turbines and 9% steam thermal and diesel plant. Maximum
demand was 185 MW. EPC's energy sales totalled 763 Gwh of which industrial
consumption was 54%, domestic 29%, commercial 13%, and other 4%.  Present
generating capacity is sufficient to cover system peak demand but substantial
hydro energy has gone unused because of lack of full integration within the
hydro grid and the mutual isolation of EPC's three main systems. Proposed
improvements to primary transmission would properly integrate the system and
allow maximum use of available hydropower. The installed capacity operated by
EPC would increase to about 605 MW by FY87 with the completion of plants now
under construction, retirement of the Rangoon oil-fired thermal stations, and
investments at Lawpita to rectify the headrace restrictions. Within the
integrated system, firm capacity at an expected 451 MW will exceed present
demand projections which are conservatively estimated at about 310 MW,
ensuring a fairly comfortable position until the next major project
(Paunglaung hydro) comes on stream in FY91.



-10-
Sector Investment Program
30.     An efficient broad-based power system is important to the continued
economic and social development of Burma. Given the current low system
efficiencies, it is imperative to improve transmission, distribution and
management to reduce high system losses, and make the best use of existing
generation facilities. During the four-year period, FY83-86, when IDA would
be financing the proposed project, EPC plans to invest about $280 million
equivalent on generation, about $200 million on transmission (of which the
proposed project would account for about 65%), and about $55 million on
distribution facilities.  The generation program comprises 64 MW of gas
turbine, 18 MW of oil-fired, 267 MW of hydro, (of which, 158 MW will continue
to be financed beyond FY86 and will come on stream around FY90), and seven
mini-hydro plants totaling 6.85 MW. It is planned to carry out feasibility
studies of ten additional sites where hydro potential of about 17 MW has been
identified. The transmission program comprises 241 km of 230 kV line between
Toungoo and Thazi; 192 km of 132 kV line from Kyaunchang to Monywa; and the
transmission work under the proposed project. The distribution facilities to
be completed by FY90 include about 650 km of 33 kV, 1200 km of 11 kV, 250 km
of 6.6 kV and 3500 km of 400 volt lines. EPC also plans to add about 110 MVA
transformer capacity on the 33/11 and 33/6.6 kV systems and about 100 MVA
transformer capacity on 11/0.4 and 6.6/0.4 kV systems.
External Assistance and Bank Group Participation in the Sector
31.     EPC's investment program is being supported by the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), Austria, Czechoslavakia, Japan, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW), Norway, and the United Kingdom. Bank Group involvement in the power
sector has been through the ongoing Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose
Project (Credit 1031-BA), which includes two 28 MW generators financed by KfW.
This project is in an early stage of implementation and is progressing
satisfactorily. The Bank also acted as the executing agency for a
UNDP-financed Power Development Survey completed in July, 1978. The survey's
objective was to help formulate a 15 year national generation and transmission
development plan and included a feasibility study for the proposed Paunglaung
Hydroelectric Project (136 MW). As a follow-up to this study, detailed
engineering for Paunglaung (to be completed in November, 1982) and a detailed
power system planning and operations review (draft of report completed in
January, 1982) were undertaken with Norwegian assistance. This review will
help to identify suitable hydro projects to follow after Paunglaung.



-11-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
32.     The project was prepared by EPC and its design is based on
comprehensive system studies carried out by the consulting engineers,
NORCONSULT (Norway). The project was appraised in June/July 1981. The Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Burma: Power Project" (No. 3769a-BA, dated
April 12, 1982) is being distributed separately. A timetable of key events
relating to the project and the special conditions of the proposed Credit are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from March 29
to April 2, 1982. The Burmese delegation was led by His Excellency
U Maung Cho, Minister of No 2 Industry and included His Excellency
U Kyaw Khaing, Burma's Ambassador in Washington, and Col. Khin Maung Thein,
Managing Director, Electric Power Corporation.
Project Description
33.     The project would provide for transmission of power from generation
facilities already established or under construction. It would help ensure a
comprehensive, integrated approach to the development of EPC's transmission
facilities and would also make a substantial contribution to improving the
efficiency of EPC's power system. In addition, the project would address
important issues relating to EPC's operations and the Government's policies in
the power sector, namely, level and structure of power tariffs, reducing
system losses and strengthening EPC's planning capability and financial
organization and operations. The project would comprise:
(a) Installation of single circuit transmission lines
of about 414 km of 230 kV and 229 km of 132 kV;
(b) Construction and expansion of eight substations
of 230 kV, 132 kV, and 66 kV with an aggregate
transformer capacity of 330 MVA;
(c) Load dispatch center and meter testing equipment;
(d) Consulting Services for project management,
system loss reduction, fixed asset accounting
system and establishing a planning unit;
(e) Feasibility study of a suitable hydro-electric project
to follow the proposed Paunglaung project; and
(f) Training of EPC staff.



-12-
The Electric Power Corporation (EPC) - The Beneficiary
34.     The Managing Director of EPC, under the direction of the Minister of
No 2 Industry, is responsible for the operation and management of the
Corporation. He is assisted by a Board of Management comprising the seven
most senior EPC officers. Engineering, Finance, Stores, and Administration
are the four operating departments in addition to fourteen regional offices
and operation and maintenance units. The present organization structure is
generally satisfactory; however, some modifications may be desirable after
the proposed Planning Department has been fully established and operating (see
para 35). EPC had 482,000 consumers at the end of FY80, of which 442,000, or
92%, were domestic consumers, and a waiting list numbering 150,000.
Population having access to electricity is estimated at about 7%, and per
capita electricity production is low at about 36 kWh as compared to 15 kWh in
Nepal, 29 kWh in Bangladesh and 170 kWh in India.
Institutional Aspects
35.     Planning.  EPC has a technically competent staff; however, its
operations have been hampered by the absence of a definitive planning system.
The planning that has existed rested with the Ministry where it appears to
have been done on an ad hoc basis. The nucleus of a planning directorate
was established in EPC in late 1981, and the Government and EPC have agreed
with the Association to take steps to organize and develop this unit into an
effective planning arm within EPC (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). An action program for accomplishing this was agreed as
follows: (i) by December 1, 1982, a small team of EPC's senior engineering
and financial staff would visit a power utility outside Burma to observe and
discuss the planning function in order to gain an insight into the operation
of a planning department; (ii) following the above visit and not later than
June 30, 1983, EPC would retain an outside specialist, satisfactory to the
Association, for a period of two to three years to advise and work with EPC in
strengthening the operations of the planning directorate. It was also agreed
that EPC would finalize the terms of reference for the specialist by March 31,
1983, in consultation with the Association.
36.     Training.  EPC is one of the largest employers in Burma with a staff
of about 11,500. Its training program is designed to upgrade the skills of
its managers, engineers, accountants, technicians and skilled labor. During
1977-81, 103 engineers were trained abroad. EPC staff is also trained with
foreign contractors operating in Burma. Under the project, EPC staff would be
trained to install the new system of 230 kV bundled transmission lines, and
engineers and technicians would be trained abroad in transmission line
construction and load dispatching.
37.     Financial and Accounting Systems.   To strengthen EPC's financial and
accounting system, the project provides for the filling of senior finance
positions, establishing a fixed asset register together with an asset



-13-
accounting system and revaluing fixed assets. With vacancies in senior posts,
the Director of Finance has to devote an increasing amount of time to oversee
details, rather than deal with broader, more important financial matters. It
was agreed that EPC would appoint suitable officers to the two vacant posts of
Deputy Director, Finance, not later than March 31, 1983 (Section 4.05(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.     Currently, EPC does not maintain a fixed asset register and the record
of fixed assets gives only a lump sum figure by category and does not provide
data, such as date of purchase, date of commissioning, details of scheduled
maintenance, unit costs and estimated life, which are required for proper
asset valuation and depreciation accounting. It was agreed that in
establishing a system of fixed asset recording and accounting, the following
steps would need to be carried out: (a) prepare a physical inventory of the
assets in distribution, transmission, generation and at headquarters; (b)
record the assets in registers; (c) determine values; (d) establish a
depreciation policy and apply the rates; (e) reconcile the values established
with the books of account; and (f) maintain records of commissioning, repairs
and maintenance. Establishing these systems is a large task and one which
requires outside assistance (possibly from within Burma). The time frame
involved in this task would be to (a) finalize the terms of reference for
outside assistance, in consultation with the Association by September 30,
1982; (b) recruit outside assistance by December 31, 1982; and (c) establish
the fixed asset recording and accounting systems by March 31, 1984 (Section
4.04(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). EPC will complete a
review of the methodology to be applied for revaluing its assets by March 31,
1983 (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and will
forward its recommendations to the Association for comments and concurrence.
In other areas such as stores accounting, billing and collection and internal
audit, EPC is being assisted under a loan from the Asian Development Bank.
System Losses
39.     EPC's system losses are high, amounting to an estimated 32% in FY81;
the breakdown being station use, 2.2%; transmission, 7.5%; and distribution,
22.3%. The distribution loss is due to a heavily loaded distribution system
and to meters needing calibration. The project provides for the installation
of new testing facilities and for an adequate number of spare meters for
industrial use to allow the old meters to be replaced and calibrated. To
improve the power factor and reduce losses, the project provides for
appropriate capacitors to be installed in the power system. EPC has arranged
financing from Yugoslavia for strengthening the distribution system,
especially in Rangoon.
40.     A System Loss Reduction Unit, headed by a superintending engineer,
was established in November, 1981. Staff for this unit has been sanctioned
and will begin to be positioned shortly. As a matter of high priority, a
specialist should be retained with experience in (i) assessing losses in an



-14-
electrical power system; (ii) organizing a unit to deal with losses; and (iii)
establishing a program for effective loss reduction. Accordingly, it was
agreed that EPC would take the following steps by dates indicated: (a)
finalize the terms of reference for the specialist in consultation with the
Association by June 30, 1982; (b) recruit a specialist satisfactory to the
Association by November 30, 1982; (c) organize and complete the staffing of
the Loss Reduction Unit by February 28, 1983; and (d) undertake the
implementation of a Loss Reduction Program by March 31, 1983, (Section 3.05 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Loss Reduction Program would
aim to reduce systems losses to 20% by FY87.
Cost Estimates
41.     Total project costs, including contingencies, taxes and duties, are
estimated at $132.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
$80.0 million. Taxes and duties are estimated at $35.5 million equivalent.
Physical contingencies of $7.2 million or about 10% of base cost and price
contingencies of $22.6 million or 33% of base cost were calculated assuming
physical contingency allowance of 15% for substation equipment and its
installation, 10% for transmission line material and transmission line
installation and 10% for supervisory consulting engineers, all to allow for
variation in the scope of work. Price contingencies have been estimated
assuming annual inflation of 6% for 1981, 9% for 1982, 8% for 1983 to 1985 and
7% for 1986 for local costs; and 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983 to
1985 and 6% for 1986 for foreign costs. Engineering consultancy services
would require about 350 man months of work at an estimated cost of $4.6
million; the average man month cost being $11,800 (salary and overhead
expenses - $10,000, travel - $500, subsistence - $1,300). Cost estimates are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary.
Financing and Onlending
42.     The proposed IDA Credit of $80 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. Local costs totaling K 368 million ($52.6
million) would be financed by EPC through Government loans. The Government
would onlend the IDA Credit to EPC for a term of 25 years, including 5 years
grace, and at an interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum. Conclusion of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Government and EPC
will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Sections 3.01(b)
and 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed onlending
rate of 8.5% is the sum of the domestic cost of investment capital (5%) and a
foreign exchange risk premium (3.5%). Given Burma's inflation rate of around
1% over the last three years, the 5% cost for domestic investment capital is a
positive interest rate. Furthermore, the latest economic projections indicate
that the inflation rate is not likely to go above 4% for at least the next 3
to 4 years. If EPC were required to borrow from external commercial sources,
it would not expect to pay more than 8.5%. This estimate is based on
commercial borrowing rates for public corporations in Burma in 1980/81, during



-15-
which period a blend of suppliers' credits and other loans averaged 7.7%. The
External Debt Reporting System (EPD) shows that, in the period 1980/81,
Burmese public corporations borrowed from a number of European financial
institutions including those in West Germany, Belgium, France, Sweden, and
Britain. They also borrowed from Japanese institutions. EPC would not,
therefore, be deriving a competitive advantage from its access to IDA funds
whereas EPC would be at a comparative disadvantage with a higher onlending
rate.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.     All equipment required for the lines and substations would be split
into suitable contracts and would be procured through ICB under IDA Guidelines
for Procurement. All bidding packages estimated to cost over $100,000
equivalent would be subject to the Association's prior review of procurement
documentation. A preference of 15% of c.i.f. or customs duties, whichever is
less, will be granted to local manufacturers for procurement of equipment.
Minor items of equipment, spare parts, materials, not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000 each, and not exceeding $1 million in the aggregate, would be
awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA
(on the basis of bids from no less than three independent suppliers).
Disbursement of the proposed Credit would take place against: (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and material and 100% of
cost of local equipment (ex-factory); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
foreign consultants, and training, and 100% of local expenditures for local
consultants.
Implementation
44.     EPC will use its own staff for installing transmission lines and
construction of other facilities. EPC has considerable experience with
transmission lines, and has excellent capability as demonstrated by past
performance. EPC staff added an additional circuit to the 132 kV
Lawpita-Thazi line under energized conditions in 1975. Under an ADB project,
it also completed erection of the 132 kV single circuit transmission line in
1981 from Kyunchang to Monywa (192 km), within nine months, a creditable
performance. EPC's mode of operation is to form temporary construction teams
of local skilled and other manpower supervised by a nucleus from its permanent
staff of engineers, foremen and skilled laborers. Thus, EPC is able to limit
the size of its construction staff to that which is required on a full-time
basis for its construction programs. Some of the lines under the project
consist of bundle conductors and are of a 230 kV rating. To familiarize EPC
staff with this operation, it is proposed to arrange initial training of six
months' work on the Hlawga-Prome section through one of the equipment
suppliers. EPC has created a new unit headed by a competent project director
to supervise and implement the project. He will be assisted by two
superintending engineers and necessary support staff.



-16-
Financial Policies and Tariffs
45.     The Government's policy has been to keep industrial tariffs low in
order to reduce electricity costs of industrial users and favor
industrialization. However, such a policy could convey incorrect economic
signals in planning industrial development where electricity is used,
resulting in inefficient utilization of energy. As EPC's industrial sales
account for an increasing proportion of total sales (presently 54% and
forecast to rise to about 65% by 1986), the under-pricing of electricity
adversely affects its finances.  Besides low tariffs, EPC's finances are also
affected by system losses (paras 39 and 40) and increasing debt service.
46.     Debt Service.  Debt service has had an increasing call on internal
cash generation to the extent that in FYs8O and 81 internal cash was
insufficient to cover debt service. Between FYs78-81, the debt/equity ratio
moved from 26/74 to 56/44, largely because of the Government's policy since
1976 of not providing equity capital to state economic enterprises. EPC is,
therefore, expected to finance its capital expansion primarily with debt,
resulting in heavy debt service payments. The focus at this time is to take
all the necessary measures, including raising tariffs sufficiently, to enable
debt service coverage by internal cash generation.
47.     Tariffs.  EPC's operating results have been deteriorating with the
rate of return (after taxes), already at a low level, declining from 4.9% in
FY78 to 4.2% in FY81 on a historically valued rate base. Had assets been
revalued, increased depreciation would have eliminated income and resulted in
a slight loss. It should, however, be noted that during this four-year
period, EPC made payments to the Government in the form of duties and taxes
amounting to about K 350 million, equivalent to about 30% of NEC's capital
investment during this period (see para 49). The present overall tariff level
(taking into account a recent 14.5% increase) is low with the average charge
per kWh amounting to 28.2 pyas (US cents 4.0). Domestic rates average 43.6
pyas (US cents 6.2) as compared to industrial tariffs of only 18.5 pyas (US
cents 2.6). Some industrial categories pay as little as 8 pyas (US cents
1.14) per kWh. These charges compare to a likely range of weighted long run
marginal cost of 60-71 pyas. Forecasts indicate that the average tariff will
need to be increased substantially (from the present 28.2 pyas (US cents 4.0)
to about 54 pyas (US cents 7.7) over the next six years to enable EPC to meet
its debt service. With such a tariff increase, EPC's rate of return on
revalued assets is forecast to improve substantially from a negative 0.4% in
FY81 to a positive 7.2% in FY87.
48.     Measures for Improving Operating Results.  The Government intends that
by FY88, EPC should be able to cover fully its operating costs and debt
service requirements. In order to generate the necessary net operating
surpluses for this purpose, the Government and EPC shall focus closely on ways
and measures to improve EPC's finances, including instituting an effective
system loss reduction program, strengthening the planning function and



-1 7-
organization, restructuring tariffs and adjusting tariff levels. These
measures will be implemented beginning with FY1984 so as to cover an
increasing portion of debt service requirements and not later than FY1988
would cover 100% of debt service requirements on all debt then outstanding.
Three months before the beginning of each fiscal year the Government and EPC
will review the adequacy of measures undertaken by EPC to generate net
operating surpluses for the next following fiscal year as shall be required
to comply with the required debt service coverage (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).  The Government intends to institute the above
measures in a phased program which would enable EPC to cover all operating
costs and at least 75% of debt service requirements for FYs84 and 85, 85% for
FYs86 and 87 and 100% for FY88 and thereafter.
49.     EPC's Contribution.  It should be noted that in addition to servicing
its debt, there would be a substantial transfer of funds from EPC to the
Government. This transfer consists of a 55% duty/tax on imported goods, and
payments to Government consisting of a 10% tax on the unit sales of
electricity for other than industrial consumption, plus a 30% payment on net
income after the above mentioned 10% tax on sales and after interest.
Forecasts show that during the four years, FYs 83-86, these payments would
total about K 900 million ($128 million), equivalent to 25% of EPC's capital
investment during the same period.
50.     Tariff Structure.  In Burma, demand charges for industrial consumers
are not levied. The tariff is based on a block system with kWh charges
declining with increasing use. Under the Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose
Project, EPC, with the assistance of IDA staff, completed a tariff study in
mid-1981. The study's recommendations include introducing capacity charges,
eliminating the present decreasing block structure to encourage economic
consumption and establishing the framework within which EPC's tariffs would
take a step toward reflecting the marginal cost of supplying electricity to
different categories of consumers. The Government would implement the
recommendations of the tariff study (Section 4.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); the actions required would be to, (a) introduce capacity
charges for high and medium voltages; (b) eliminate the present decreasing
block structure to encourage economic consumption; (c) reduce the number of
user categories; (d) introduce different tariffs for different voltage levels
within consumer categories (high, medium, and low); (e) consolidate Rangoon
and outside Rangoon into one tariff; (f) introduce a power factor surcharge as
a means of encouraging consumers, especially large ones, to improve their
power factor where appropriate; and (g) introduce a fuel price surcharge.
Benefits and Risks
51.     EPC's hydro generating facilities, both existing and under
construction, are located in the hydro grid system. This system has surplus
hydro energy but is barely able to meet the maximum demand. The thermal
systems of Mann and Prome-Myanaung-Myaungmya have excess thermal capacity. If



-18-
these systems are interconnected, as provided under the project, it would be
possible to supply the surplus hydro energy to the thermal systems and in the
hydro system to use excess thermal capacity to meet maximum demand. Were the
proposed transmission project not constructed to interconnect the hydro system
with the isolated thermal system of Mann and Prome-Myanaung-Myaungmya,
substantial hydro energy would remain unutilized. Also, the present thermal
systems of Mann and Prome-Myanaung-Myaungmya have excess capacity, and if the
proposed transmission project were not undertaken, the hydro grid system would
run short of capacity in FY88 instead of FY90 on the assumption that the
proposed project would be built. The proposed project would provide
sufficient transmission capacity for the next major hydro electric project
(Paunglaung), and would also increase the reliability of supply to Rangoon as
there would be two 230 kV lines on different routes instead of the present
single line. The present 33 kV distribution system of Rangoon which is
overloaded in certain sections would be relieved to some extent as the input
to the system would be from two 230 kV substations (Hlawga and Thaketa)
instead of the present single substation at Hlawga. This would improve the
voltage conditions and some reduction in distribution losses would also
result.
52.     Quantification of the above benefits cannot be easily established.
An approach, therefore, was taken to justify the entire power investment
program for the period FYs82 to 87. Minimum benefits of power supply are the
observed tariffs paid by consumers. In order to identify some consumers
surplus beyond the tariff level, which, particularly in the case of industrial
consumers, is not representative of willingness to pay, the economic cost of
using alternative energy sources in the absence of electricity was estimated.
This represents a maximum valuation of power supply applicable only to a
portion of the consumption. For the remaining consumption, the value of power
supply was assumed to decline from the above mentioned higher value to the
tariff level. It is assumed that 13% of domestic and commercial consumption
and 26% of industrial consumption could be justifiably valued at a higher
price; in the case of domestic and commercial consumption, the above
percentage represents the minimum lighting requirement; in case of industrial
consumption, the percentage represents the amount of energy which the
consumers would generate through their own diesel generation in the absence of
electricity. In the absence of electricity, household and commercial
establishments would use kerosine for their minimum lighting requirement.
53.     Rate of Return:  On the assumption that a certain percentage of
consumption would be valued by the consumers at the level of the cost of the
alternative, and all remaining consumption would be valued at the proposed
tariff, the rate of return is calculated to be about 8%. However, if the
remaining consumption is assumed to be valued at the rate linearly declining
from the high value to the tariff, the rate of return would be about 18%. If
all consumption is valued at the tariff level only, the rate of return becomes
negative (-4.2%). This, however, severely understates the economic benefits



-19-
of the project. All costs are expressed in 1981 c.i.f. or border terms, and
it is assumed that the existing tariffs would be maintained in real terms.
54.     Risks.  There are no risks of significance associated with the
project. In order to cater for variations in the scope of work and to avoid
any cost overruns, physical and price contingencies have been included in
costing the project. Also sufficient allowances for spare parts for equipment
used for the project have been included.
Environment
55.     The environmental impact of the project would be negligible.  The
overhead high voltage lines would pass through crop growing fields or bush
and forest areas. All substations of the project have been sited away from
congested areas. Construction in paddy areas would take place only after
harvesting the paddy crops. Once the construction is completed, land beneath
the transmission lines would be available for cropping.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The Special condition of effectiveness is that the Government and
EPC conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 26, 1982



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page  1
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSANL SQ. KM.)                                                         MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            676.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      103.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    50.0        70.0      160.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       57.5         66.1      72.0              499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 21790.0       27034.0   32913.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3          22.8      26.7               17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        50.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        32.2         40.0      48.6              153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0         253.0     310.6              360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          38.2         40.4      41.1               37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                          59.2         56.3      55.2               59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          3.3       3.7                3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.2       2.2                2.1                    2.3
URBAN                               3.7          3.8       3.9                3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.8         39.8      37.2               27.7                   29.7
GRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.1         16.5      13.6               10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.7       2.6                2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-l1O)          100.0        101.0      99.0              107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.0        104.0     106.0               98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         57.0      59.0               56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0         12.0      12.0               14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.2         17.8      12.7               14.6                    4.8
HEALTh
LIPF  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0         49.0      54.0               57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..         ..              89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      17.0               30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                *-         35.0      30.0               65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                ..         13.0      13.0               20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                . .        35.0      33.0               17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                ..         45.0      38.0               71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                . .        32.0      32.0                4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          15564.3       8797.3    5121.4             3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      7386.3    6123.9             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1561.0       1173.2    1107.5             1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                ..        347.9     378.1              322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                ..      15237.4    7228.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        34.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.6           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
PF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 21 -                                                   ANNEX I
rage 2.
TABLE 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SWEET
BURMA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9ADES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCQIE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 56.0         87.0      84.0               85.9                   99.8
MALE                  61.0        92.0       87.0               94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                52.0        83.0       81.0               64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 10.0         21.0      20.0               38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                  13.0        26.0       22.0               34.6/ami               58.4
FEMALE                 7.0        17.0       18.0               18.0/aa                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (%  OF SECONDARY)    0.5           1.0         ..               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0         47.0      54.0               32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                            ..         32.0      37.0               19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        59.7/c         ..      67.0               52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.8          1.0       1.2                1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.3         14.8      22.0               35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         15.0      10.7               14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0           8.1         ..               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10408.9       11591.3   13199.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.1         36.9      36.0               29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                ..         69.9      67.1               69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   ..          8.0       9.8               14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                47.8         42.9      40.1               39.7                   40.2
MALE                                 58.0         54.7      51.8               51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                               37.8         31.3      28.6               23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0        1.1               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/d
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.77-        40.0/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.57d         8.Oe       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5/d        21.0/e      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UkRBAN                               ..           ..      94.0              134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..      68.0              111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      50.0                 ..                  249.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      36.0                 .                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0               41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0               51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958, Rangoon;  /e 1972.
May, 1981



- 22 -                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3
jtt, lN0lN1S Of   IC[..lNIICATOnS
Nones   Although  the dane,  dreen from  src.gnallylodged  the .oe ..                    hr..      o   n   elsl,onsol   ls   ente   hr..crcn:nitr
narcon.sllycompaablr beas   ftelako                    ned ized defntions sod concpt. usd by dif eenounne   ncleto.teOt.   i   aaes
incites  usefulv  de_tine orders ofmantd,indi-at  _rnd. , and thln--eri-  tehaivmao  differnce- ent  ruie 
oy  no sulaci coutry  lencct for  Cctral Sudae li  E:por-tre   gr-p eh-n  'Middle incom   hot'. Afnico and Middle test  i he It-  bet..outo           11 91
so   cclurlatjties      I  herfeet  grou d.n. th  averages se-oaannmIghted enre ",t"c enor   yetheicldi[cat- ed sh.ot cede uhet
maoiy  ttt  .c.t.t. 1- e a gu,p~ has daa fur thatltd' loeo  -Iitne  the  -ceerg   of cocioeogo hr ihfcter  depent~ h.h a-ol~ltihliy of data
eod ueocn-it-uca                            -.canos.ktscsdcintelaSiheraa   otendiacte.n..                      hseeroec   el..et.iiCeaehntto
To-Il- Tettecufecere -Plrusltg lad ..r.ee.d itl-ed  .sres..  .dn a                                                  --uci)  Od cldtytirroercrtec   hsuah
bny at ineteo  phyeccr           nthlia-si   yr-bllc.-   pInipally ..use.-
1971  ehd 1970 date e.a    sihn     ua  rdiocte...tc.ftahtth elo   h-5.fh-t-eo
detfetendprc-dealitdogetcca-i-Ifaoilclre.                               1 roane--
U       .ERk C0NLt TtOhIN Pnt CAP_IU  -.1ua   --huetioh of ooetare~    te                                 ice   ieon ta 1,hospi~talsinclude slls pch dafeaa    ept
atdlihite.rtnolua.  teuta  gsoad hylro-..o..eare-d er.nhetmaeieo ItrrehenIncs   ordor-hotrna[nIdtt -dcsladnsrt
Ists.                                                                 Adeissiona pee thmpl,itodl fed - T-cc  nusheno   dcsir                cdts-haog-
ino toonle divided hy the~ ..usb-r  hi dhef
nocl rcolouc, hd-eatithusodel- 0  o   -ul  I; 1Ito, 197, -ud 1919                    Olht
different  of icieloe of uris  areas ma  afEo  oooarb l     o  date                       a     ,thorec orl. ..   ..a.d.  hr tldgir nay. orcthth.ttlddi
dmog  ouocie   1ff  l bl, and 19   leyna.                                                           the househelo- for           b-tet-1stdito)  yi.or_ysdeI
tiuaPo.        hyerll       urn    oylte    rjc lo    t   oe-n191hre   r e  per roen i                                                   oh  ocher  shd rura    l ecuid  -oe   tonal
ttlPnplre   paead sensed thei  rortalliy and termilley rae.i                                  doel inge, ne _etiey.Y              Iegeoude-ema hsrutoad
Projectlion p_csnr   c  sorrnr-rate  ceprir of three her- aeu-                                     norpied nta
lea  lfedepecisycea   ti-th Icre       -og    h te...c .     e  capitaencoascrseto flat-icln    Ir-re-nt  dritgf dtonal,  rhae. med  -eal-
J_al  eel fmlIfe. _eyr-nary erbiliotegart 77.5  er ..   The paagoetinldoIltings moth eetI  t   t ieng--rttse
esteem tertetollticrsreimjhseehee   leisongd-clhtein                                       oftrte1,uohb-   aedtu...Ilorl- gsrsyotto
hsoh coute  is theesaigedono  these tine  ehnstn   f sottaite                                thCAIl
snd tot) n   ro.sfe   rjeno .cpse.Adotd FL.risetoie
itattotty eoradrten-te  snag onory [puPIlet.o there c  n  groth sinc                    Pertsho-tua mltand f-ml-tra    eaI   aeedfml
theiehyteieuiohdahae Ithloneaesratuer- o_iletn   al   gestretiar   ihea                                                                                     hiletee   of. 6ese11o
maIns rst ..      t- This is acieved ol   fe    ei          y  poesdrln  t                           yoaysha-getalnis; ormlpnruoshldnegd-i
ofasetplee   islfsnel-                h  sttitay  oplaio  sesos                                   cu  iris he-in        .. unena   educhit   erlmet   pacs   ill perveo
esaima-d uc the he-is of the proJetad  caatrs    ts  f the populationsstm  pupcls ar  hel- en  b...m rhoofte   atoe  ag.
ner   ltI_                                                                                         edctonrqIter" at  eat face pale  e f appoovdpimayInoutI  ton.;
her-ntltay perulatrc IonO  minhed -The tsa  ah-  -taira.ty   ruate-poides gNeral, n--hot[ ..  tI_hn   riningin nnsheotc.. far Punk
also ham           he -rehod.                                                                                   12      17ynilt _l psrstg -:oteponso-         eeeategenerally
fouclat ton lessity                                                           ero~~~~~~~~loded.
Per ea. he. egricoltursi lstd - broomed  am shove for agtnrultural  land           sotty or as leparalmenre...  .of secondary...n.ftanriode.
oitiA,171C and fl7t data                                                                   yur~ll-teaher  -itR~,em             n                 Teodr - 1oa   -tt-rn   etri1led in
Proud tion Ass    - -otoeler t   - Childra   :l-la  y-s.), moeking-sge  (15-                            potm-y and s.todery l..re.ls  tisid hr numbate oI nseher  it the
-ureri., ad rtiedI I per  sod ever) seP                 -.. necetemso  mi-feer P.P.-                eoresponding  lens
1-n coo  i196, 19701,sd 1979 daaTot aeatraerrety      iosedisitsc  mdsdstm
tooanlLon  rot gt  (oroneo    - Htunl -  atos  g thi rate  of ntal mid-                                 as-srerg   o              1os  adni  popleInto    agdh  pasan   cr
pes  ePu1ations for [f1-tI, 190617,end 1971-79.
totolatior brooch tear Iterceve  -aehan- Atonal gresrh rates rf urher rope- -ChctStfft-bt. p.pTCON
lattons for iNtl-fl. 1961-71. and 10~~~~71-7.                                         Peeeerrt.- -osrdoolnef-Psege   aermes    oo
Crone ninth Rats    r  the...end) -  ruel Itee bietha pee tho-ns    ef aid-year                       rar  esrte  less then eight p.r...e.  secladssshuec,h-sese  and
popul1t-o; 1960, 1970, aol  079 dat,                                                                sitnaynh ee
Crde DeathR (ate lithniousadi - Aotm1 d-ehe yet  h .e..nds of mid-pes                             radio gRe..in-- (oat rho.....d p-oleti-t             I At,hpes of reren-- fir tedto
poplat 'iv; 1909, 1907, erd 1079 data                                                               bred-os     en g..er.. Ipehlir per thousand of popel!ita;so           Idno-
ruty  rtes  osall  f ne-earaesageeniegit  060  170. eel 1979.                      mat oatee   sbo1tehad Iii....isg.
PsmIly lvtleot ..-h... Coercer   f  aridss) - P--tetag   of s-ra                                      inot__tote  sod in year  renreheesto   o  I  sasse  InVfet
Ior  o   hlId-he-rlg ag  Il5-ku  yersf  .t usehth--ooto  deri-e  rotssee tecla  io   retheefpooa                                                     - thos  th.    aesg.te
almrilsmn in ammege gru.olet                                                                         o   daily gEnera  isesanopp , defi-edseprofa
d.8. 9 .. P                                                                                    I In,~~~~~~~~phlrst  evte    etarl  to. esot ingaep alrmspt  sroede
Pono     T apt iltoioltikt'air"  0 d                                                                                  en mi_eies so leastfaaetasioe-k
Ier. of foodPodc  onrtCaie  lf-711   - loden of par capita  -tna                                     teAn M      .Ine A-tedaoeerCnr   a  T r-tesd or the                          f
ProductIo   ofal  food       7  III-thrs   fredu-innnlue   sednd feed end                           tibt   ood Et   the yer,heludio an                 mens  odeee-oote
iver-d of sugar) ohith ar  edible and vo-nat oneteinmleg   roffesen
teseremecludadi.  Agg-ogae trolud-in  of eah  --yte  is hase.d at                         Lasi FtthE
nantroel average trodocer ptte  eaah-e; 1961-fl, 170  ad1079 dat..                        TamatLaboret(fcsmdl-rmmilreinepsn.lcodg
far vsit  sorh       f calne   oerh   frtarmns    Coern-d f-o                                       amd fars- an  arelyd tob             o-lcgtnenos   tderts, err
enrysovin tf tnfo   up  e   nll  tocrntry terra pies                                   cry-rig popuoni-o of allge .             -Irinint.t. ine   tea ......ntrtes are
prda.    -rileAle  soypliteror isadsei   edono.tprste                                          no Ingoal;1960, 1970 stl 1970 den.t
roers,ad changem  in ete.    met etltmstld            .mlalfe, seeds                      feaefs.n)-fml   ao   frets as peen                     ..o. tf tot1 lmboe fnpre
quantIties. used it fool p-ocee...   mm8,.d l.sme. itodi_errihunc . Re0eiee                     atanr  nrsn-    Laho...forte  in frmie,g,foretry  ta Etn   sod
sant ....   tee tearedl by Pal be_d on_phyetloglcsl2 needsire tesl  ei                            fishing aspr-e-ge of tona  lho-  frt,; 160.  97ad 179 len.-
ninysdhelhh tonsid.en  entleoI_etel rt st , body mege,seImldser  fre-t-n) - Laker fort  in sine,oi                                                    seunon    anftrr
tuaod leve; 196i-65, 1970, sod t977"dets                                                     lftso 1979. 1    sts.
Pe  rn s surlo of OtReh  fere_i  0   Isv) -d   -rttnr         -e  of Per -pits             P-seh inesto taela-          st   trial.           ande eelfemlePar tttpi,   ono
vetenoly  f fod  erdsy.  fee supply of faod te Sefinda  abov.t-amftyrtsmecapnda   oe                                                    ae   n  fsml  lsbr  ares
natrmate fe al  coniees enablehdI    h  (tc prvde fo  stlo                               ernsesi'oa,st  erd femal  populari- of all ages  -ep-oivly;
altsmeo  60 gram   of tona  p-otIn pee day and 20 gEs of animal end                           lhi. 1971, srI t979 dat.-   Theer ar  based on ILOe. pamiolano  tans
pus  nt,o   hirk 10 Ieem   stroll be  nml     -rtin       -hsesie-                     retiseitg age-sea . soeo_r  ofth  p-daa,e  I.m.ti t                    tet '.A
animal porete a  an averge for'he mar11  proposed by lAO in the Third                tEormi ter leot ratio !-.Ratio of  .pept .ni  order I  and 61 snl --e
tordPodOnvy   101f.Ieed lO77ns                                                                rthete ttbofr.
Pertaprs  ra eiosoply  ineatiat nd  ols -Ptotet  supply of foal Is-
ol.s  foo  ..J-'l. and paises in Erase fee day; 1961-65, 1971 and 19717 dan.-                INCOME! DISIBitIoON
2111lags.1-I marnittr Utag  fer  abhusedi - Miou    d-htt  per  h.o..ad in                          tremaef Prfnam   Intom    (boeh tn teak  amd kindf - aenine   by etohest
ag'rop1- Ieas   to  hildre  in nthis ag  groa; for see  d-vlaptog rot                        erm,f      ihs   trrro.poet2  prethn   ooett   et
her   ata del     fe   Ie  als            196  70tP  and 1979 dams                              of  oushod.
HEALTH                                                                                              POOPRTY TlOGET GROUPS
li!~fetpooen...y an  ite1ni (ear)d_   ...gg n,       e   If years of lil  rmaeti                    The fol1irig esimae    revr  apro -mte  sau                   mf          1-'eey  enls
mebrf   b K. 1960, 1970 mo   ttIm.sdstnIb   mepeed1mitt raredecetlestto..
mfn  fair. Sas  ose thausamd)   -       jMge  dsahb  of tefants ead- one yea              tegmtd      -id"nPLer  erm  Levelc (1Sfrnste                      obeadru l-
ofaeprtyrso   lisbt        b.Miauepnve    os   ae  i   htlrmelvlhls  uhesns
hosf r issgeeisoe.o   oeeta-ea. 5.m   m    e5  P                                                     nenrtiomap-ly eeqir  dIetI p.leaeseeta Inat-food .~ reare              s    .is-to
bar of                                                                                                   itolefatal1dba,dad  url)-ihdi-smaleaorleto.5.....elle
ma _rspply (inlls  rae    -ueremsssor                      -drse   ban a-a      -dmma         E.ni-sad Relseo  Pvro-            er  Len-l(Oil -eohlfa-rbrsd rurl-
mase st pi as thtfo   pronatim b- r       2a00 spogs  eeft   mia    bis.s                     oe  relsnlve  foet h.eIo..    leelisb       n-hr   faerg   e    pn
fonnimors tmdo i loae.     enmr  thee.110 seren  teem. Te hosha elnlmnkefaieefeighe- o-n  f lining to orbsn are...
rsaoeblserc..ssould  imply  tha  nine htoeea_fe or members ofh ab-eodsd  -re1    .-Pema  of(pplstnubso med rura)  hk.re"ble
do no  he- or  o  gd a dispe-poetlooses par of eks day in f-ahing the                               P_n"
fastly' 5- sane reds.
Aroe...   isost lsps   (rfr t if reralatitae-ma-s. -ebsa. smd emel1
slmera  psop.  (tial.1 cNan, sad rrl   ende   art  die  eata
P"e""I"ge  af elate respartin   popal-nr.    E-toem dlspesa  may  s-lede
ih.ts rllsrla   aid .dipsl  mienhe  etthaamtrsams , of bh-,sersa
and esse-vis  b   am-bor-  sysesm   meaE_s fpn   evs   e   ii                                                                              epen,    and tta   esIn
P-ralatLonsa   t'bystiae - Pepulatior dirtied hy enter at prnt.irtg physi-                                                                                   myie
ota..s qeaiftd frmm a mditoe1 sgb-1 at enins..siy 1-ne.
PoReaitm ej      trir soo   - Popola~tto  danded.  by aumb-  of pseen
male em0 femal  goedeae   urss  p-otr-1 nurses  mod ..ssisntsgrs.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                Page 4
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
AREA                      POPULATION                                                DENSITY
676,5S1 sq km             34.9 million (1981)                                  52 per sq km
Rate of Growth:  2.32 (from '980 to 1981)            187 per sq km of arable land
POPULVTION CHARACTERISTICS a/                                    HEALTH (1980)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):                    37.2             Population per physician:               4,550
Crude Death Rate (per '000):                    13.6             Population per Hospital Bed:            1,407
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births):
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1972)                                       DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSRIP (1975)
X of national income, highest quintile:           40             Z owned by top 14% of owners:              42
lowest quintile:           8            7. owned by smallest 62% of owners:         26
ACCES' TO PIPED WATER a/                                         ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1977)
% of population - urban:                        30.0            7 of population:                           6.6
rural:                      13.0
Total:                       17.0
NUTRITION a/                                                     EDUCATION a/
Calorid intake as % of requirements:             106             Adult literacy rate:                      67%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):    59                 Primary school enrollment:                84%
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981:-/ US$164
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1981                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTh (2, constant prices)
$ Million    %                       1971- 76        1976-81        1971-81
GNP at Market Prices              5,571     100.0                      2.1              6.3           4.2
Gross Capital Formation           1,320      23.7                     -1.0             17.4           7.8
Gross National Saving               995      17.9
Foreign Saving c/                   325       5.8
Exports of Goods, NFS d/            472       8.5                     -7.2             15.2           3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS dV            774      13.9                    -10.5             21.3           4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY1981
Value Added                   Labor Force           V. A. Per Worker
$ Million    %                Million    %                  US$
Agriculture e/                     2,595    46.3                9.0       66.7              288
Industry f/                          148    13.3                1.3        9.6              575
Services/Trade                     2,263    40.4               3.2 g/   23.7 g/             707
TOTAL                        5,606   100.0               13.5      100.0               415
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                    Union Govermnent
Kyats Million    2 of GDP              s  Million      % of GDP
FY81           FY81                FY81            FY81
Current Receipts                         6,978 h/         18.8 h/            5,526             14.8
Current Expenditures                      5,066           13.7               4,945             13.3
Current Surplus                           1,912            5.2                 581              1.6
Capital Expenditures                     6,534 i/         17.6 i/            1,393              3.7
External Assistance (gross)              2,732             7.4
*All data for FY81 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ Most recent estimate, referring to any year between 1976 and 1979.
b/ The per capita GNP estimate is based on a straight exchange rate conversion using FY81 GNP
and K 6.619 = $1.00 (average exchange rate for the fiscal year).
c/ Defined as external current account balance excluding grants.
d/ Calculated on accrual, not payments, basis.
et Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
T/ Includes mining, power, and construction.
/  Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
h/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
i/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



- 24-                                    ANNEX I
Page 5
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                          1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980      1981
(Kyats million outstanding at                      Mar.       Mar.       Mar.       Mar.      r. .       Mar.       Mar.
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                             5,342      6,052      6,377      6,631      8,017     9,619      11,213
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      6,222      6,445      6,213      6,550     7,194      8,990      10,885
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       639        956      1,489      1,706      1,728     1,653       1,651
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  27.6       25.8       23.6       22.4       25.4      28.2        30.2
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 - 100)                                    206.4      252.6      249.7     234.6      247.9      249.4       248.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                  25.9       22.4       -1.1      -6.0        5.6        0.6        -0.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     26.8        3.6       -3.6        5.4       9.8       25.0        21.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    -6.7       49.6       55.8       14.6       1.3       -4.3        -0.1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          MERCNANDISE EXPORTS (FY81)
FY79     FY80      FY81                                                 $ Million         7
(US$ Million)
Exports (GNFS)                          260.2    442.3    520.4                Rice and Rice Products                205          43
Imports (GNFS)                         602.6    702.4    835.2                 Teak                                  109          23
Resource Balance                      -342.4   -260.1   -314.8                 Base Metals and Ores                   29           6
Animal Feedstuff                        8          2
Net Factor Income                      -13.6    -22.1    -26.2                 All Other Commodities                 127          26
Net Current Transfer                     12.5     15.4      16.5
TOTAL                          478         100
Current Account Balance               -343.5   -266.8   -324.5
Official Grant Aid                       59.6     65.5      96.2             EXTERNAL  EBT, March 31, 1981
Net M&LT Loans                         362.9    362.1    289.0                                                          US$ Million
Disbursements                        390.6    421.7    353.3
Repayments                            27.7      59.6      64.3               Outstanding and Disbursed                  1,516.7
Short-term Capital                      -6.7      -5.9      -0.9
Outstanding, including
Net Errors and Omissions               -14.2    -43.2    -13.5                   Undisbursed                              2,740.2
Overall Balance                          58.1    111.7      46.2
Gross Reserves (end-March)             162.1    258.9    274.8
Net Reserves (end-March)                62.7    177.3    232.5               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1981                     %
Ratio of debt service to exports of
goods and services
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Excluding Fund Repurchases                     20:1
Including Fund Repurchases                     24:2
1979 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
US$1.00  = K 6.52
IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1982 (US$ Million)
1980 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                                                                     IBRD        IDA
US$1.00  = K 6.76
Outstanding and Disbursed                        185.1
1981 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                              Undisbursed                                       225.8
US$1.00  = K 7.40
Outstanding, including
As of January 31, 1982                                                           Undisbursed                            --       410.9
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
US$ 1.00 = K 7.49
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
April, 1982



- 25 -                 ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose                 Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credit fully disbursed                 33.1    53.3           --
483       1974    Burma   Lift Irrigation                    -    17.0          0.2
493      1974    Burma   Forestry                            -    24.0          1.8
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                           -      7.5         3.2
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development               -    30.0          8.7
671      1977    Burma   Second Ports                        -    10.0          0.1
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                    -    16.0          0.8
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                    -      5.5         1.3
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development II            -    34.5         21.9
879      1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation               -      4.5         2.8
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                         -    35.0         27.1
958      1979    Burma   Telecommunications II               -    35.0         31.1
1031      1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam              -    90.0         78.2
Total                                           33.1   362.3
of which has been repaid                      33.1        -
Total now outstanding                               -   362.3
Amount sold                        2.7
of which has been repaid         2.7             -
Total now held by Bank & IDA a!                     -   362.3
Total Undisbursed                                       177.2       177.2
Total Disbursed                                         185.1
a/ Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 26 -                ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of March 31, 1982)
Amount in SDR Million
(less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose               Original   Undisbursed
1092      1981    Burma       Grain Storage                 17.9         17.9
1114      1981    Burma       Wood Industries I             25.8         25.8
Total                                             43.7
of which has been repaid                        0.0
Total now outstanding                            43.7
Total now held by IDA                            43.7
Total Undisbursed                                              43.7
C. Statement of IFC Investments
None



- 27 -                ANNEX IT
Page 3
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of March 31, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21, 1974;
v            Effective Date:  August 6, 1974; Closing Date:  April 30, 1981
An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets (300 g.p.m.) and accessories
was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Industries Corporation. All of these
units have been sold to farmers in the project area. Favorable costs on
various components of the project have been sufficient to permit the purchase
of 3,000 additional low-lift pumps. All of these units have already been sold
to farmers. The construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed.
Some 550 units of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the
equipment repair program. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for
future maintenance. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments
and drainage channels has been completed. The Closing Date of the Credit has
been extended from March 31, 1980, to April 30, 1981, in order to allow for
completion of disbursements covering consulting services for the preparation
of final design and specifications for the Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from
projected area in FY79/80, is well over the target for teak and on target for
hardwood. Teak extraction for the year ending March 31, 1980, totalled
127,000 HT (target 100,000 HT) and hardwood extraction of 100,000 HT (on
target). Project productivity and profitability are most satisfactory.
Project is extended until September 30, 1982, to facilitate the procurement
of remaining equipment and spare parts.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                 ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30, 1975;
Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The contract for the planning, supply, erection and commissioning of
the Rangoon Milk Plant was awarded to Alfa-Laval of Sweden for a total cost
of US$2.273 million. Civil works construction is proceeding satisfactorily
and estimated completed date of the plant is June 1983. GOB will request an
overall reallocation of credit funds and an amendment of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to increase the relending limit to LDMC. LDMC continues to
concentrate its efforts on the farm at Pyinmabin. The Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Science Department continues to perform its functions under the
project satisfactorily. The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science has started the phased transfer of its facilities to the new campus
at Yezin but the recruitment of consultant lecturers and its fellowship
training program still lags behind schedule. Completion date of the project
has been extended to June 1983.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project has suffered about two years delay due to late procurement
of construction equipment at the outset of implementation. Construction
progress has been satisfactory since the arrival of this equipment.
Approximately 66% of civil works have been completed. Land reclamation is
proceeding at a satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 31,000 ac
have been reclaimed, representing about 50% of the project target. The
hydrological investigations and mathematical modeling have been completed to
the extent specified and draft reports submitted, but it is now considered
desirable to extend the study to include the upper delta also. It is
anticipated that physical works under the project will be completed by May
1984.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Effective Date: March 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The execution of all the works and procurement of all the equipment
and services financed under the project have been completed satisfactorily
and the credit is now closed as scheduled. The Borrower has agreed to prepare
a draft PCR, which is expected soon.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The dredge is in the process of start-up, having completed delivery
tests. Short-term operating plans for the dredge are being prepared by Mining



ANNEX II
- 29 -                Page 5
Corporation No. 2 (MC2). MC2 has taken measures to speed up procurement of
spare parts to avoid future delays of dredge operations, such as the mooring
winch motor which has resulted in a delay of about 4 months. In addition, MC2
has also increased its efforts in training by sending selected staff to
Malaysia. GOB advised the Bank it would let us know at the earliest how they
wish to utilize $200,000 allocated for a sector study.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Procurement, civil works, applied research, seed production, and seed
quality control continue to make satisfactory progress. Staff is now 88% of
full strength and is adequate until the seed processing plants are completed.
The proposal to make temporary staff appointments permanent is now with the
Council of State. Overseas training is gaining momentum but the project will
probably have to be extended by one year, possibly 18 months, to accommodate
previous delays. Land development continues to be a problem because of the
non-availability of suitable equipment.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The project is proceeding broadly according to schedule.
Approximately 16% of the civil works have been completed, including one
sub-project area (Bawchaung) which is nearing completion. Land reclamation
is proceeding at a satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 17,000
acres have been reclaimed, representing about 35% of the project target.  The
allocation of reclaimed land for settlement is awaiting completion of the
necessary surveys, and is a little delayed. The agricultural extension
service and other components of the project are progressing satisfactorily.
It is expected that the physical works of the project will be completed on
schedule in June 1986.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the GOB rubber estates is proceeding very well.
The pace of implementation has recovered from the unfortunate death of the
general manager in 1980. The new general manager, appointed in September
1980, is an experienced and dynamic manager capable of motivating the
management team. Rubber plantings in the 1980/81 seasons exceeded the target.
The civil works program after two years is only three months behind schedule.
Disbursements plus commitments total approximately $1 million versus the SAR
estimate of $1.9 million for the same period. GOB has agreed to proceed with
the conversion of the crumb rubber factory into a 20 T/D crumb mill processing



KNNEX II
- 30 -                 Page 6
scrap. GOB will request a reallocation of the Credit to provide adequate
funds for the plant conversion. They will also request an extension of the
Credit closing date to allow for completion of the plant conversion and also
consolidate and upgrade the plantations to achieve target acreage. The Rubber
Section is now preparing the second phase of the project, and a Bank mission
is scheduled to visit Burma in May 1982.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II (East Pegu Yoma) Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
Production targets for 1980/81 have been attained. Procurement is
behind the SAR schedule. However, in view of the total amount committed
currently a substantial improvement on procurement is expected.
Rehabilitation of the existing sawmills and the construction of new sawmills
are progressing satisfactorily. The current shortage of staff is expected to
be remedied shortly, following the removal of government's ban on recruitment.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project, after a slow start caused by delay in the creation of
the project implementation unit and consequent delays in procurement action,
is now picking up momentum. Overall the project is expected to suffer a delay
of a year and a half. Financial results continue to be satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1031   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project; US$90.0 Million
Credit of November 4, 980; Effective Date:  November 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Credit was signed in Rangoon on November 4, 1980, and declared
effective on November 19, 1980. The ICB civil works contract was signed by
GOB and Hyundai on June 24, 1981. A contract was also signed with Lahmeyer
International (FRG) in January 1981 for consulting services for definite
design and construction supervision on dam, powerhouse, and appurtenant
structures. The progress of works under the civil works contract is to
schedule. Labor camp, workshops, stores, contractors camp, site roads and
diversion tunnel excavation already completed; and the coffer dam under
construction. The selection of consultants for Irrigation Works Component not
yet finalized by the Irrigation Department (ID) while negotiations for
consultants for analysis of risks and related insurance are in progress with
Risk Planning Group, and list of selected candidates for short-term
specialists being finalized by Agriculture Corporation. Delivery of equipment
(financed under Japanese assistance) expected by end-1982. Contracts have
recently been signed for (i) hydraulic steel structures (Lots 2A and 2B) with
Zschokke Wartmann and Noell respectively, and (ii) mechanical equipment Lot 3
with Voith. Contract for electrical equipment Lot 4 is being negotiated with



ANNEX rI
- 31 -                 Page 7
Siemens. Tender specifications for Transmission Lines Lot 5 have been
completed and contractors prequalified. Access Road construction (earthwork)
to dam site has been completed (bridges under construction) and road is in use
for services. Construction of camp for project staff at Myittha is almost to
schedule, over 500 staff quarters and headquarter offices have been completed.
Cr. No. 1092   Grain Storage Project; SDRs 17.9 Million Credit of February 6,
1981; Effective Date:  May 4, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
A Project Implementation Unit has been established within AFPTC and a
Project Coordinator has been assigned in CC to coordinate civil works aspects
of the new storage construction. A Project Coordination Committee has been
established to ensure effective overall coordination in project
implementation.
Consultants have been employed to assist AFPTC in planning and
implementing procurement of prefabricated steel structures and mechanical
handling equipment. Tender documents are being finalized. Construction of
foundations for first set of godowns is underway.
Cr. No. 1114   Wood Industries I Project; SDRs 25.8 Million Credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 25, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project was prepared by the Timber Corporation with assistance
from the FAO/CP. The project was appraised in June 1980. FINNIDA is
co-financing the technical assistance and training component of the project
(about $2.0 million). An IDA Credit ($32 million) was approved by the Board
on March 17, 1981, and was signed on March 26, 1981. The Credit became
effective on June 25, 1981. The Grant Agreement between Burma and Finland and
the Memorandum of Agreement between IDA and Finland were signed on
November 23, 1981. Project procurement is on schedule. Most of the equipment
for plywood mills and the furniture factory have been ordered.



- 32 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
9 months
(b) Agencies preparing the project
EPC and NORCONSULT
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
January, 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 2, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditons
Conditions of Effectiveness
The Government and EPC will conclude a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to IDA (para 42).
Other Conditions
(a) EPC will develop an effective planning unit
(para 35);
(b) EPC will establish a fixed asset register
together with an asset accounting system
(para 38);
(c) EPC will establish a system loss reduction
unit and implement a Loss Reduction Program by
March 31, 1983
(d) The Government and EPC will undertake a phased
program to cover fully EPC's debt service commitments
by FY88 (para 48); and
(e) The Government and EPC will restructure tariffs
on lines recommended in the Tariff Structure
Study, (para 50).






au MsA
1 t4                        T'i A-
ftAN                                        2r
fIRST POW-ER PROIECT   2w
ILECTRtc PoWE CORRQRATIOW,
B U R PA A                                                                       r       I-A        5`-.- -
Pqwer  Olem-
VAM
IJ
P,44 kV
132
156
c"If
THERMO f'OWE             i
94'
rh-p                                                                                                                                               MhWPLAN-S rXrEN50ft
0                0        0      SMSTAT40N5
)95TATION ;b Te,4510N
ItA LWAI;
IVERS
StXFE OR WkI6Nr OWbARUS
24:
-A
SEDNVGYI                                                                       4s2b        60A. llp-   IAI.
2'5y."w'
AY                                                     4')
p 6
KYUNCH                                    NYAUNGGYAT
HYD RO 5 6,MW
f7
M kd
IIA;                                                9"
X (DCIZA  f
-ANII
!!U- lCg
GT ,MW
20'                                                 JCT
Py         "GLWr
TALJN    I                       HYDR                                                                                                    2be
136 M                   ffi
LAWP      LHJJDHR'Cf                                                                102V
HYDRO
Th.ym                             168 MW
T 19 A   I- 4N  Ci-;
TO,                                                            -T,I   [                               :  =    m
N                                                                                                                                     IA',
PROME
NYAUCll I DAUK              PROMLE VV
CT 3t,\A
T;
1,1,YA-IWN
Y
IANG;TJ
,YD,
HENZ D                  24 MW
%
YEGYI
L  Si
h
-,2                                                 12'-
EIN   N/A-) A                    JA
i                                                                        G L) f
NGOON              MOULMEIN           =T  !: :   l
STEAM 12MIAI2
ov
16,                                                                                           1
T k o i o r., ol
C/ a m a
96-






IBRD 16002
964                                                                                 BURMA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER1981
FIRST POWER PROJECT
ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
y 5   4  > z  '                     % J                                        RANGOON POWER SYSTEM
PROJECT EXISTING COINSTRUCTION PLANNED
I                 I13                                                                                                                                                230 KV TRANSMISSION SINE
o RANGOON/INSEIN                           1                                                                                                                                          _        33 KV TRANSMISSION LINE
,\   \ ' SPINING& WEAV INp   II                                                                                                                               --- tx  \ 2 r   o   v   ~ X5   / r  \  ____   ---    33 KVCABLE(UNDERGROUND)
SINIG&WEVIG230 KV SU BSTATI ON
FACTORY                                 I 
JUTE MILL       -               t                                             1                                       ~~33 KV SUBSTATION
JlTE  /ILL    ,'                    K \  E\)\ FACTOFY  X   j,   ,,  \   :  =   ,             0 I                tX               \                              0                         POWER STATION
I  A~~4)YE,...~'II                 S.                                                                                                       ROASLAP
/                UyLITI4 S...) !   I0           A s   O Kg A  L A, tA               v                         ,   \                                          RAILWAYS
\ ' ' ~~~~~~~~t " Ns9                             T f,i ,        ,.-. >1)1                                                                                                                                                            2 
a   \  --Y.,   i'   J   E  GOODS KFFILOMETER
SINkALIKEI                              .                                                                                                                                                              .     .
/                 =        :               T%s                 % /               ,~ ;/!                             ,                \           1164E-
-160JS'~11                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1  N + \\ =.\0/t E.: ~ '<TiK     
I~ VA,                                                                                                                                                                                    -
! ~      ~       1 -07  s                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,0. . < it j J;RE/ ?,     , 
I   AITHEINNYJT                IK
RY'
.. Zy                      R. ,                                                   . ;                                 IOYALi 
Ill          1 01~RESP1ORCH 
\ ', K s X t J i , ; X+N / 9 i ,1, / z . - - r / I   INDIA                                                                                                                            I       5 CHINA
'-=7 =-1 ' ' 7&/>-MST--- C) / Y Z SYRIAMN/ $ Ii                                                                                                                                                    BURMA
P O-               ST                  -VIET NAM
/7   0                                                                                                                                                                                                             0,JR.  _  /   RANG/r<  r  lox
THAILAND
f  /                    S   X   R, 4 .AO                                       I          V S    Y   DEMOCRATIC
ThIs m p hIa be,, p,reprd by th. World Rooks rtoff ORootelyto the snd the -1-i-0y If E, AhPUCH EN
hooudaries shRow oo this b- ap do r 0iimply. on the a of tet World Rook sod to                                                                              I Idst\
aPPA,ftes, soy iodgorent on the bleal 01.105D eofty terrntoryo soy rmotdoroemeot or                    ,                                                   I                                                                                                lOstaTtdfz g-\ 
55ccpttcE5oPsuchhboondorites                                                                           X>|ft                                                                                                                                                              s
950/5;                                                                                                                                                                        s       :,'



