Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5468 
Project Name 
Jamaica First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability Development Policy 
Loan (FS DPL1) 
Region 
Latin America And Caribbean Region 
Sector 
Economic Policy; Poverty Reduction And Economic Management 
Project ID 
P113893 
Borrower(s) 
Jamaica 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance And Public Service 
Date PID Prepared 
January 23, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 01, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 23, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background  
Jamaica is a lower middle-
income country with high life expectancy and relatively low poverty. Jamaica’s 
per capita GNI was approximately $4,870 in 2008 (latest available year) and it is the largest English-
speaking country in the Caribbean. Jamaica enjoys the advantages of proximity to its largest trading 
partners, language, time zone, and natural resource endowments. The population, of about 2.7 million, 
enjoys relatively high life expectancy (73 years), and the country has achieved a marked reduction in 
poverty from 28.4 percent of the population in 1990 to 9.9 percent in 2007. Although poverty reduction has 
been more pronounced in the urban areas, rural poverty has also come down by more than half in the same 
time period.  
A
key challenge however is that Jamaica’s growth has historically been low. The average real GDP growth 
rate over the past 30 years amounted to 1 percent per year. Between 2005 and 2008, growth averaged even 
less than 1 percent while the LAC region grew at an annual average of 5.2 percent. Moreover, at an 
estimated 135 percent of GDP in 2009/10, Jamaica has among the highest public debt to GDP ratios in the 
world. With 38 percent of the Central Government’s budget going to debt servicing, there is little fiscal 
space for much needed priority social and capital spending. It is therefore a priority of the Government of 
Jamaica to implement medium term fiscal and public sector reforms to address the critical issue of fiscal 
and debt sustainability with a view to supporting its long run development goals. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
This proposed DPL is the first in a programmatic series of two single-tranche operations to support the 
Government of Jamaica’s medium term fiscal sustainability reform program. This program is focused on 
fiscal and debt sustainability, macroeconomic stabilization, and improving the efficiency and effectiveness 
of public spending and investment decisions. These priorities are also reflected in the new Country 
Partnership Strategy between Jamaica and the World Bank. The Bank’s support will assist the Government 
of Jamaica in its efforts to mitigate the impact of the global financial crisis while maintaining the 
momentum of structural reforms necessary for the achievement and maintenance of longer run 
sustainability. These efforts are viewed as critical to the Government’s development goals since Jamaica 
has one of the highest public debt ratios in the world and debt servicing leaves no fiscal space for increasing 
priority social and investment expenditures. 
The main development objectives are: 
•
Enhance fiscal and debt sustainability, 
by
supporting reforms to increase control on public 
spending and debt generation, reduce debt service burden and improve debt management, reduce financial 
Page  2
vulnerabilities, increase public spending effectiveness, and fortify the country’s ability to cope with the 
adverse consequences of the on-going global economic downturn. 
•
Increase the efficiency of public financial management and budgeting processes, 
by supporting 
efforts to improve the efficiency of public expenditures and investment, and strengthen control of public 
finances and the effectiveness of government budgeting practices. 
•
Further strengthen Tax Administration and increase tax revenue generation capacity, 
through 
measures aimed at enhancing audit and control, improving client services for tax payers, broadening tax 
base, simplifying tax payments, and introducing greater uniformity in tax policy. 
Specific prior policy actions supported by the FS DPL1 include: 
·
The MoF has submitted to the Cabinet proposed amendments to the Financial Administration and 
Audit Act and the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act, which introduce a fiscal 
responsibility framework (FRF). 
·
The MoF has developed and approved an action plan for the consolidation of Public Bodies’ and 
Central Government accounts. 
·
The MoF has: (a) ceased authorization of deferred financing in the Central Government since 2005; 
(b) communicated its commitment to the Cabinet (on December 10, 2007) and Parliament (on 
December 11, 2007) not to utilize any deferred financing arrangement. 
·
A
Strategic Project Plan for Restructuring the Public Sector is approved by Cabinet and its 
implementation is initiated. 
·
As part of the FRF, the government has submitted to Parliament the necessary legislative changes 
for introducing Parliamentary approval for public bodies’ budget. 
·
Employment surveys (censuses) for five strategic sectors (Education, Health, National Security, 
Finance, and Agriculture) have been completed. 
·
A
wage freeze for all public sector employees, including those from public bodies, is in place as a 
temporary measure to contain wage bill growth. 
·
The Government has implemented the Auditor General’s Operational Plan, including improved 
staffing, training of senior auditors, and upgrading IT and physical facilities.   
·
The GoJ has implemented a tax package to signal its commitment to (a) reducing exemptions and 
(b) improving the share of indirect taxes in inland revenue; 
·
The GoJ has continued to implement its Tax Administration reform plan as evidenced by the 
establishment of (i) the Large Taxpayer Office, (ii) Customer Care Center, (iii) Forensic Data 
Mining Unit, (iv) High Intensity Unit, and (v) Special Enforcement Team. 
Some key expected outcomes of the FS DPL1 include: 
·
Promulgation of law establishing parliamentary oversight on borrowing limits.  (Baseline: No such 
law existed in FY2009/10); 
·
No more deferred financing (Baseline: Average annual deferred financing from FY2000/01 to 
FY2005/06 was J$497 million)  
·
Fiscal savings of at least 1.5 percent of GDP generated due to Government’s Debt Management 
Activities (Baseline: Interest paid by Central Government was 16.0 percent of GDP in FY2009/10)   
·
Reduced losses of Public Bodies generate savings of  at least 1 percentage point of GDP by 
FY2010/11 (Baseline: Public entities balance  was -2.8 percent of GDP in FY2009/10) 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  3
Sustaining the Reform Program
The proposed operation builds on the progress made under the Bank’s 
previous Fiscal and Debt Sustainability DPL (January 2009) and supports the Government of Jamaica’s 
(GoJ) reform program aimed at improving management of public finances and reducing the debt burden on 
the economy. This reform program is critical to the GoJ’s strategy to create fiscal space for priority social 
and investment spending and increase the growth potential of Jamaica. The proposed FS DPL1 will also 
support the maintenance of macroeconomic stability while the GoJ adjusts to the deterioration in the global 
environment while continuing to implement the longer term reform agenda for fiscal and debt sustainability. 
The FS DPL1 supports actions to (a) promote fiscal sustainability through control of overall public service 
balances and debt generation, and rationalize Public Bodies; (b) improve the efficiency of public financial 
management and budget process; and (c) strengthen the Tax Administration capacity, reduce tax distortions 
and enhance the efficiency of the tax system. The Government has made progress on these key components 
of its reform program, even in the context of the ongoing global economic crisis. 
While current global conditions have added to existing challenges, the Government has remained 
committed to the long term reform agenda. Jamaica has been severely hit by the global economic crisis and 
the impacts are likely to persist over the medium term.  The GoJ recognizes the importance of achieving 
and maintaining medium and long run sustainability and has developed a well articulated medium-term 
economic program to improve fiscal sustainability, reduce the debt overhang and put the economy on a high 
growth path, while maintaining and even expanding social spending to protect the most vulnerable groups. 
As part of this program, the government announced a debt exchange offer on January 14, 2010 with the 
objective of reducing the interest rate on, and extending the maturity profile of a portion of, outstanding 
domestic debt. The Government estimates that fiscal savings from the debt exchange will be 3 percent of 
GDP during FY2010/2011. The offer does not envisage any hair-cut in principal. Following the 
announcement of the debt exchange, Jamaica’s credit ratings were downgraded by rating agencies. 
However, the same rating agencies also highlighted that upon successful completion of the debt exchange, 
credit ratings for Jamaica would be upgraded since the debt exchange would reduce the debt service burden 
and improve the prospects for sustainability. Nonetheless, the downgrading presents short-term challenges 
and the debt exchange itself may reduce the liquidity in domestic markets—making it harder for the 
government to secure financing in the short term.  To maintain macroeconomic stability and ensure 
resources are available to support the longer run fiscal and institutional reform program, the GoJ has 
adopted the strategy of seeking financing from the international financial institutions (IFIs). 
The rationale for the proposed DPL is thus that it supports the GoJ’s efforts to improve fiscal balances and 
reduce costly public debt in a sustainable fashion. The proposed loan will contribute to the financing 
necessary for Jamaica to minimize the effects of near-term global financial market volatility. It will also 
support the GoJ’s active debt management operations to reduce the net present value of public debt in a 
manner consistent with the GoJ’s fiscal and debt management objectives. These efforts will mitigate the 
impact of the crisis and help maintain macroeconomic stability, while providing the means to generate 
additional fiscal space necessary to accelerate growth and address social challenges in the medium run. The 
government aims to cut by half the central government’s budget deficit and achieve an overall public debt 
to GDP ratio of less than 120 percent by 2014/15, based on the latest projections of the global economic 
environment by IFIs.  
Coordination with Development Partners
The GoJ’s program is the basis for support from international 
financial institutions and donors, including the Caribbean Development Bank the World Bank, the IMF, the 
CDB, the EU, and the IDB. These operations will provide financial support to Jamaica as it implements 
difficult policy actions in an adverse global environment. There is a significant level of donor coordination 
and fiscal and debt sustainability has been the centerpiece in all donors’ programs. The financial support 
from the IFI’s for the Government’s reform program is expected to reach extraordinary levels, nearly 20 
percent of GDP. The proposed operation is thus part of a significant effort by multilaterals to help the GoJ 
sustain its long-term development agenda. 
Page  4
The Government is finalizing the discussions with the IMF for a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) to manage 
short term difficulties and support the longer term reform agenda. The authorities and the IMF have reached 
an agreement on the broader content of the SBA and are working on a set of policy measures to credibly 
reduce fiscal deficits and debt service burden and improve fiscal and debt sustainability. The SBA, in the 
amount of US$1.25 billion, will cover a period of 27 months and is expected to be approved by the Board 
of Executive Directors of the IMF on [February 3, 2010]. Disbursement is to be front-loaded with 
approximately US$650 million to be available immediately upon approval. 
The IFI’s have coordinated closely on their support for the GoJ’s reform program. The policy actions 
supported by this DPL are complemented by those in the proposed IMF SBA for Jamaica, which also 
focuses on structural fiscal reforms aimed at supporting the GoJ’s objective of longer-run sustainability, as 
well as in the public sector reform programs (PBLs) of the IDB and CDB. All these institutions are 
supporting measures to improve fiscal and debt management, rationalize Public Bodies, and strengthen tax 
administration and policy. The World Bank is also coordinating with the IMF and the other IFIs in the 
phasing of disbursements and in the sequencing of the policy actions. This coordination is important to 
ensure that the Government’s financial needs are met in a timely manner while reform momentum is 
maintained.  
The proposed operation is rooted in the forthcoming Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of the Jamaica and 
the World Bank. The new CPS (2010-13) includes fiscal and debt sustainability as a main component for 
macroeconomic stability.  This DPL is envisaged in the forthcoming CPS as the first of the two 
programmatic single tranche operations designed to support the government’s reforms aimed at fiscal and 
debt sustainability. 
Consultation
In view of the critical nature of the reform program, the Government of Jamaica has 
established a strong consultative process. The Government has consulted extensively with country 
stakeholders, including the cabinet and members of Parliament on fiscal reform, Public Body rationalization 
proposals, and tax reform issues.  Through the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), the government has 
undertaken a broad consultation process on its long-term development plan—Vision 2030—which 
incorporates many of the reforms supported by this DPL and was tabled in Parliament in May 2009. Vision 
2030 was publicly announced and consultations have taken place throughout the country including 
consultations with various target groups.  
In addition, the Public Sector Transformation Unit, which is implementing the Public Bodies rationalization 
program, has a well-structured consultative process. The governance structure of the transformation project 
includes a Sub-Committee of the Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, to approve, give direction and 
oversight to the restructuring of the Public Sector, and the Consultative Monitoring Group (CMG) 
comprising representatives of Government, private sector, trade unions, academia and the Opposition to 
review the strategies being pursued by the PSTU and monitor their implementation. Implementation and 
change management “transition” teams will be formed in each ministry and department, and will include 
Human Resource Practitioners, Communication Specialists, Information Technology Specialists, Union 
representatives and staff at all levels of the organization. These Teams will be kept fully abreast of changes 
taking place in their organizations, and will be able to assist their colleagues to grasp all of the critical 
issues. They will be able to direct staff to the various support services provided to facilitate the transition 
within and across Ministries and Agencies.
 
4.
 
Financing
 
Source:      IBRD 
$200 million 
 
5. Institutional Arrangements 
 
Page  5
The proposed financing, amounting to US$200 million, will be available for disbursement upon 
effectiveness.  The disbursement arrangements will follow OP8.60.  Credit proceeds will be disbursed 
against satisfactory implementation of the development policy program.  Once the Credit is approved by the 
Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of the Credit will be deposited at the request of the Recipient by 
the World Bank in a Foreign Currency Deposit Account (FCDA) designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the Bank. The Recipient will ensure that upon the deposit of the Credit into the account, an 
equivalent amount in local currency is credited in a Local Currency Deposit Account (LCDA), in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank at the Bank of Jamaica (BoJ).  The Recipient will report to the Bank on the amounts 
deposited in the foreign currency account and credited in local currency to the LCDA.  The administration 
of this Credit will be responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank will reserve the right to request an 
audit of the designated account by an independent firm of auditors and in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to it. In addition, the BoJ shall maintain an appropriate accounting system in 
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
 
The Bank would disburse the loan proceeds into an account of the Central Bank of Jamaica denominated in 
US dollars. The Central Bank of Jamaica will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the account of 
the Ministry of Finance and the Public Service, thus becoming available to finance budgeted expenditures. 
Within a week of this funds transfer, the Ministry will accordingly provide the Bank with a written 
confirmation. 
 
The Ministry of Finance and the Public Service will play the primary role in coordinating monitoring and 
evaluation of program implementation. The government and the Bank will take advantage of several 
important data sources to assess progress of the DPL, including:  
•
Central and nonfinancial public sector budget monitoring from the Ministry of Finance and the 
Public Service 
•
Statistical Institute of Jamaica 
•
Central Bank of Jamaica reports and analysis 
•
Reviews and analyses of laws and implementing regulations by the Bank and other stakeholders 
•
Data from key Government agencies such as PIOJ and the Auditor General 
•
Financial audits and follow up of CPAR and CFAA recommendations 
•
Bank, CDB, IDB and IMF supervision missions and reports. Jamaica is under intensified 
surveillance from the Fund which produces a bi-annual staff report that assesses its economic and financial 
stability. The World Bank has been closely coordinating with the Fund on its monitoring of the economic 
and financial situation. 
 
6. Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits: 
(1) help create fiscal space to help Jamaica achieve long run development objectives ;  and (2) 
help in rationalization and modernization of public sector processes. 
 
Risks: 
The Jamaican program, to be supported by the proposed DPL, faces four types of significant risks: 
economic, political, institutional and natural disasters. Risks and mitigation measures are summarized 
below.   
Economic (high)
:
The current global financial crisis has severely impacted the Jamaican economy through 
falling exports of services and goods—tourism, bauxite/alumina, and light manufacture—and declining 
remittances. The sizeable depreciation of the nominal exchange rate has increased the government’s cost of 
servicing its variable rate debt and raising the cost of rolling over existing debt. Output declined by 1.6 
percent in FY2008/09 and is projected to decline by another 3.5 percent in FY2009/10, largely due to the 
near collapse of the bauxite industry and reductions in remittances and tourism receipts. The central 
government’s overall budget deficit has widened, despite the Government’s strong efforts to contain it, 
mostly due to fall in tax revenues and increased debt service burden. Unemployment is on the rise with 
Page  6
possible significant social implications. The full impact of the crisis has not been documented yet, but its 
social implications look worrisome as seen from the police reports of increased property crimes. A lagged 
recovery and further deterioration in economic conditions may stall or reverse reform actions and put strain 
on debt sustainability.  
Monitoring and mitigation: Since Jamaica is vulnerable to external shocks, 
prospects for mitigation are limited. The Central Bank continues to target low inflation while also focusing 
on financial stability. The GoJ is continuing with its fiscal reform program to support debt sustainability in 
the medium-term.  Other development partners have put together resources for on-demand technical 
assistance in support of the government fiscal and debt sustainability program. To mitigate liquidity risks 
and ease financing constraints, the GoJ has sought a multilateral package of support from the World Bank, 
the IMF (US$1.25 billion or 300 percent of Jamaica's special drawing rights quota), the IDB, and the CDB. 
In addition, the proposed operation supports actions to improve fiscal balances and address the debt 
generating process, and, thus, reduces financing vulnerabilities.  There is ongoing macro-monitoring and 
country dialogue and the Bank program would be adjusted to mitigate risks as much as possible if critical 
risks emerge.   
 
Political (moderate):
The current government came into power in the fall of 2007, but it has had a small 
majority in Parliament, making the government’s program vulnerable to special interests. The risk is that 
some MPs could object to, and block, specific policy reforms supported by the DPL.  For instance, the 
government has submitted a Fiscal Responsibility Framework (FRF) to Parliament and achieving concrete 
results would depend on enactment and implementation of the legislative changes envisaged under the FRF, 
which in turn could potentially be affected by the political stability. Similarly, reforms to rationalize the 
Public Bodies, and improve the tax code may face resistance, as various interest groups seek to maintain the 
status quo. While the growth contraction and pressing financial needs may exacerbate political concerns, it 
may also spur consensus on the need for near-term actions. 
Mitigation: The political risk is reduced by the 
Government’s consultative approach to reform implementation and the dialogue among country 
stakeholders on the fiscal and economic costs of inaction. The IFIs and other donors are heavily focused on 
building consensus for critical public sector reforms in the country. 
 
Institutional capacity and reform implementations (moderate):
The government has embarked on 
substantial public sector reforms which require changes in institutional structures and significant 
enhancement in institutional capacity for an effective implementation. The reform process might be delayed 
as the institutions try to adjust to the changes and enhance their capacity. For instance, consolidation of all 
public sectors may require substantial adaption in public entities. Similarly, moving to MTEF would require 
investing significantly in capacity building and aligning the orientation of the institutions towards medium 
term planning.
 
Mitigation: Jamaica has well established institutions. The development partners have been 
providing technical assistance for institutional capacity building and advancing public sector reforms. 
 
Natural Disasters (high)
:
Jamaica is highly vulnerable to multiple natural disaster risks
—particularly 
droughts, floods and hurricanes. The cumulative damage from the last three major storms— Ivan (2004), 
Dean (2007), and Gustav (2008)—was over US$1 billion.  Natural disasters have the potential to derail 
economic growth and poverty reduction.  They also pose a heavy fiscal burden, increasing indebtedness and 
redirecting public resources away from long-run development plans. 
Mitigation: The damage to major 
private sector enterprises is partly covered by insurance. The GoJ participates in the Caribbean 
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility. The Bank is assisting Jamaica through investments in natural disaster 
risk mitigation with the Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan and technical assistance for its safety 
net program to mitigate adverse consequences on poverty. In January 2009, the National Water Sector 
Adaptation Strategy and Plan of Action to address climate change were established with Bank assistance 
and provide recommendations on key investments (capacity, institutional, policy and legislative, etc) to 
mitigate the negative impacts of climate change in the water sector. In addition, the GoJ has presented a 
draft National Disaster Management Act to Parliament for enactment. 
 
Page  7
7. Povery, Social, and Environmental Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts
:
The actions supported by this DPL are expected to have a positive overall 
distributional impact, although some groups may experience an adverse impact in the short-run.  To the 
extent that the measures supported by the DPL play a role in the government’s ability to lower inflation, 
reduce the income tax burden for lower income groups, improve prioritization of public expenditures, and 
enhance the efficiency and fairness of the tax system, their overall impact on poor people’s income and 
access to services is expected to be positive. This is confirmed by the Poverty Assessment and the Public 
Expenditure Review, which indicate that the high debt has adversely impacted the poor by reducing fiscal 
space for priority social spending and investment programs, while macroeconomic volatility and inflation 
have had a disproportionately negative impact on the poor.  In particular high inflation in the past has 
eroded the purchasing power of the main social safety net program PATH and thus diminished its 
contribution to short term poverty alleviation and reduced the incentives for human capital accumulation. 
To address this issue, the government had to adjust the benefits by almost 40% in 2008. Likewise, the 
distributive impact of reducing the number of favored tax exemptions and raising the income threshold for 
income taxes is expected to be pro-poor, as is improving expenditure efficiency and strategic allocation of 
public spending.   
 
The poverty and social impacts due to Public Body rationalizations, particularly due to employment 
dislocation, require careful evaluation.  While the aggregate impact of the fiscal savings and debt reduction 
associated with the rationalization of Public Bodies will be to create a more efficient and transparent 
allocation of public spending and investment, some groups may be adversely impacted in the short-term.  
Poverty and social impact analysis would permit an effective policy response in this eventuality. The 
Development Bank of Jamaica, through its Privatization Unit, which supports Government appointed 
enterprise teams, has the overall mandate to divest specifically assigned public assets/entities. As a part of 
that process, the Development Bank of Jamaica evaluates impacts of the prospective investors’ 
development plans, which must include an evaluation of employment and social impacts.   
 
Poverty and social impact analysis has been completed for the Sugar Industry, due to its size and employee 
characteristics, and further analysis is planned to assess the distributional impact in other sectors.  The 
divestiture of the Sugar Industry is, by far, the most important in terms of its potential impact on the poor.  
The industry employs over 30,000 people, mostly unskilled, and has a significant amount of land under 
cultivation.  The divestiture is designed to improve productivity in this sector and bring new technologies so 
that farmers can increase yields.  Even if divestiture were not to take place, there would likely be a 
significant impact on the industry in the coming years as the EU trade preferences for Jamaican sugar 
expired in September 2009 (with a six-year transition period). Economic and social impact analyses were 
completed in 2006, with the assistance of the EU, for the Sugar Transformation Strategy, inclusive of the 
sugar privatization.  The studies’ recommendations, including the need for a better government 
communication strategy and assistance for displaced workers, has helped to guide the divestiture process. 
The Jamaican government has expanded its communication strategy through consultations on its 
development plan and is taking actions to minimize the impact on the poor (including, providing severance 
payments to farmers that exit the industry as well as support and training for alternative employment).   
 
In other areas of the reform program, government strategy would require further analytical work to 
determine the extent and/or need for complementary actions. The government is cognizant of these issues 
and is ensuring that poverty and social impacts are adequately addressed in the context of the reform 
program and the economic downturn. On December 14, 2008, the government announced that it had set up 
a
special program through the HEART Trust/National Training Agency to retrain laid-off workers in order 
to assist them to gain alternative employment. The Bank is also supporting the strengthening of the PATH 
program, which provides conditional cash transfers for the poor. The program is well targeted and also 
helps the poor during periods of natural disasters with additional payments, which occurred after Hurricane 
Page  8
Ivan.  In 2008 the benefit level was adjusted for inflation and further increased to provide additional 
incentives for students to complete secondary school.  This represents a substantial increase in PATH 
budget from 2007 levels (reaching 14 percent of the popul
ation).   PATH is also piloting a “Steps to Work” 
initiative aimed to help working able adults in PATH families to engage in activities that will help them 
find and retain gainful employment such as job search assistance, medical education, training, and small 
business assistance. While an economic crisis could result in budget constraints that limit the PATH CCT 
program, it is expected that the actions supported by the DPL will help reduce the likelihood of a crisis as 
well as protect priority social spending through supporting the government’s Medium-Term Expenditure 
Framework. Planned analytical work by the Bank, in the context of the upcoming CEM, to be completed by 
June 2010, will explore the sequencing, sectoral, and distributional impacts of the Government’s reform 
program. 
 
Environmental Aspects
:
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail 
likely significant impacts on the environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, Jamaica has the 
arrangements to assess and manage such effects. In April 2001, the National Environment and Planning 
Agency (NEPA) was formed as a means for conducting environmental impact assessments under acceptable 
international standards.  In 2003, a Strategic Environmental Assessment Policy was drafted and presented 
for approval in Jamaica as a means to better facilitate the integration of environmental sustainability into the 
development objectives of the country. While the policy has not been fully implemented, the 
implementation of key aspects of the SEA Policy starting in 2006 was the first of its kind in CARICOM. In 
addition, the Development Bank of Jamaica and other investment promotion agencies (e.g., Jamaica Trade 
and Invest, formerly JAMPRO) require that all proposed projects conform to the environmental laws of 
Jamaica and must comply with the regulations stipulated by the National Environment and Planning 
Agency. Depending on the size and importance of the public entity/asset, a formal Environmental Impact 
Analysis may be required.  An Integrated Environmental Assessment was completed in April 2009 for the 
divestiture of the Sugar Company by the Sugar Industry Authority and the Ministry of Agriculture has 
already taken steps to initiate the process of Strategic Environmental Assessment in January 2009. GoJ 
recognizes the vulnerability of the country’s economy to climate variability and change. Consequently, in 
January 2009, Jamaica completed a National Water Sector Adaptation Strategy and Plan of Action to 
address climate variability and change. The Strategy and Plan of Action makes explicit recommendations 
on key measures (capacity, institutional, policy and legislative, etc) aimed at mitigating climate-related 
shocks and disasters. 
 
As measures supported by the DPL program are expected to improve the potential for attracting new 
investment in the future (including in infrastructure), there will be a need to strengthen Jamaica’s national 
institutional capacity to identify and address environmental policy and regulatory issues. Indeed the 
successful implementation of this DPL program would create the fiscal space needed for GoJ to invest in 
critical environmental public goods such as protection of watersheds and forests, protection and 
management of coastal resources, zoning and flood prevention, better integration of institutional mandates, 
and stricter/effective enforcement of physical planning and environmental laws and regulations. With this in 
mind, GoJ and partners continue to support initiatives geared toward the proper management, conservation 
and protection of the environment and natural resources for sustainable development. 
 
9.    
Contact points 
 
Contacts: Zafer Mustafaoglu  ( Senior Economist, 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
)
and Rashmi Shankar 
(Senior Economist, 
rshankar@worldbank.org
); 
1818 H Street NW, Washington, D.C. 204433 
Mailstop I 4-405 
Phone: (202) 458-5431/473-4601; Fax: (202) 522 2119
Page  9
