Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5467 
Project Name 
Jamaica Development Policy Loan (DPL) 
Region 
Latin America And Caribbean Region 
Sector 
Economic Policy; Poverty Reduction And Economic Management 
Project ID 
P113893 
Borrower(s) 
Jamaica 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance And Public Service 
Date PID Prepared 
January 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 08, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 23, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
This proposed DPL is the second in a series of three stand alone operations to assist the government in improving 
fiscal and debt sustainability and mitigate the severe impact of the global economic crisis by supporting policies 
for macroeconomic stability and helping to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending and 
investment decisions.  Specifically, the proposed loan will support policy actions in the following areas: (i) 
promoting fiscal sustainability through controlling overall public sector balances, debt generation, and 
rationalization of Public Bodies; (ii) increasing the efficiency of public financial management and budgeting 
processes; and (iii) reducing distortions and enhancing the efficiency and fairness of the tax system. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
Enhancing fiscal and debt sustainability:  
The loan supports measures to reduce Jamaica’s high level of debt and 
improve fiscal sustainability, which have constrained the country’s growth potential and crowded out productive 
investment. The loan includes fiscal and institutional reforms to reduce financing vulnerabilities, improve public 
spending effectiveness and improve the country’s ability to cope with the adverse consequences of the global 
economic crisis. 
Increasing the efficiency of public financial management and budgeting processes:  
The public sector 
modernization efforts supported by the loan are expected to improve the efficiency of public expenditures and 
investment, strengthen the control of public finances, and enhance the effectiveness of government budgeting 
practices.  Given the potential for decreased fiscal revenues under the current global environment, these efforts are 
particularly important as a means to improve fiscal discipline and help foster growth in the medium term through 
a
better allocation of scarce public resources. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The DPL is designed to support the implementation of the Government’s medium-term development strategy, and 
draws upon the Bank’s analyses of key issues and desirable policy directions through country analytical work, 
including: the Poverty Assessment, CEM, PER, PEFA, CFAA, and CPAR.  Within this framework, it focuses on 
policies and institutional aspects related to fiscal and debt sustainability that are most amenable to support via a 
single-tranche.  The DPL is also designed to complement the ongoing and planned investment lending program 
under the upcoming CPS by supporting the government’s efforts to provide a stable macroeconomic framework 
and improved public sector effectiveness to stimulate growth and fund priority social and investment programs. 
The actions are designed to achieve realistic but important improvements in the overall efficiency of government 
spending and achieve significant and sustainable reduction in public debt.  Achieving progress in these areas will 
allow for the government to make greater advancements on social and poverty goals.  Emphasis is on 
Page  2
consolidating overall public sector balances, controlling Public Body spending, improving the efficiency of 
financial management and budget processes, and increasing revenue collection.   
 
4.    
Environment Aspects 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail likely significant impacts on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, Jamaica has the arrangements to assess and manage 
such effects. In April 2001, the National Environment and Planning Agency (NEPA) was formed as a means for 
conducting environmental impact assessments under acceptable international standards.  In 2003, A Strategic 
Environmental Assessment (SEA) was drafted for Jamaica as a means to better facilitate the integration of 
environmental sustainability into the development objectives of the country. The implementation of the SEA 
policy in 2006 was the first of its kind in CARICOM. In addition, the Development Bank of Jamaica requires that 
all proposed projects conform to the environmental laws of Jamaica and must comply with the regulations 
stipulated by the National Environment and Planning Agency. Depending on the size and importance of the public 
entity/asset, a formal Environmental Impact Analysis may be required.  An environmental report has been 
completed for the divestiture of the Sugar Company by the Sugar Industry Authority and the Ministry of 
Agriculture will commence a Strategic Environmental Assessment in January 2009. As measures supported by the 
DPL program are expected to be successful with the potential for attracting new investment in the future 
(including in infrastructure), there will be a need to strengthen Jamaica’s national institutional capacity to identify 
and address environmental policy and regulatory issues. With this in mind, Jamaican Government has embarked 
on a number of initiatives geared toward the proper management, conservation and protection of the natural 
resources for sustainable development 
 
5.    
Tentative financing 
Source:      IBRD 
$200 million 
 
6.    
Contact points 
 
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 458-5431 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
and 
 
Contact: Rashmi Shankar 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-217, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 473-4601 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
rshankar@worldbank.org
Page  3
