Drocment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13059
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
INDIA
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 1743-IN)
MAY 17, 1994
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Opertions Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Note on India - Thal Fertilizer
Proiect - ( Loan 1743-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Note on India - Thal Fertilizer Project (Loan 1743-IN) prepared
by the South Asia Regional Office.
The project was the tenth Indian fertilizer project to receive assistance from the Bank. It was
designed to increase the nitrogenous fertilizer producing capacity of India by nearly 1.5 million tons of
Urea per year and play an important role in supplying fertilizers, especially to the State of Maharashtra.
The plants were designed to use the newly available natural gas from Bombay High Offshore fields, as raw
materials.
The project was signed in August 1979 and a condition of loan effectiveness was the appointment
of the ammonia plant engineering consultants. The effective date of the project was postponed several
imes pending the final decision by the Indian Cabinet. The Cabinet's decision was made in August 1980
which reversed the recommendations made by the implementing agency. Thereafter, the Bank requested
to review the evaluation procedure and criteria and found them unacceptable because of shortcomings in
the technical qualification of the selected firm.
Since the condition of the loan regarding the appointment of consultants could not be met, the Bank
informed the Government of India that the loan would not be made effective. Accordingly, the project is
not rated and no audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H.E. K6pp
Attachment
|his document has a resricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performAnce of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwiwe be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
INDIA
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 1743-IN)
1.    On June 26, 1979, the Board approved a US$250 million for the Thal Fertilizer Project in
Maharashtra State. The expected closing date was November 30, 1984. The project was signed on
August 20, 1979. This was the tenth Indian fertilizer project to receive assistance from IBRD. The basic
objectives of the project was to assist the Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. in the construction of
a fertilizer plant.
2.    Under the project, of a total investment of some $812 million, a fertilizer manufacturing plant
was to be constructed at Thal, in western Maharashtra State. The plant would have consisted of two
natural gas-based ammonia units and three urea units, as well as auxiliary facilities such as steam boilers
and power generators, maintenance shops, and facilities for product handling and storage. The ammonia
units would have been the largest steam reformation plants to be built in India. The project also included
provision of infrastructure such as road improvement, water supply, and a power line. Rail sidings were
to be constructed for the efficient movement of raw and finished materials to and from the plant.
Environmental aspects had been carefully reviewed to ensure that the plant would not adversely affect
the region, and adequate provisions have been made to ensure the control of effluents. The plant, which
was to be commissioned in 1983, was expected to produce 2,700 tons of ammonia and 4,500 tons of urea
per day at full capacity.
3.    A condition of loan effectiveness was the appointment of the ammonia plant engineering
consultants, for which proposals had been sought in November 1979. Initial contract negotiations were
held with a British firm by the implementing agencies and agreed to by the Government of India,
Committee of Secretaries. This contract was then sent to the Cabinet for final approval. In the time that
it took for the Cabinet to make a decision and Bank to review the evaluation the project effectiveness date
was extended eight times up to December 31, 1980. Finally, the Cabinet decision was made in August
1980, which reversed the decision taken previously by the implementing agency, and a Danish firm was
selected.
4.    The Bank reguested to review the evaluation procedures and criteria utilized by the Cabinet in
making their decision. This was reviewed by the Bank on October 24, 1980. The Bank finally decided
not to accept the Government's decision on the firm. The final decision was based on the fact that the
said Danish firm did not have the experience for the construction of a complete ammonia plant with a
capacity of 1,350 tons per day - the firm's chosen technology and capabilities as engineering contractors.
This was considered essential to ensure the satisfactory and timely implementation of the Project. There
were other firms who had submitted proposals who had the required expertise.
5.    The Bank was also apprehensive on the methods and procedures followed by the Government in
arriving at its final decision, which were considered contrary to the representations, made during loan
negotiations and on which the Loan was presented to the Board. The Bank had reguested the Government
to submit a full assessment of the first ranked firm along the previously agreed upon criteria, but it was
never received.
6.    As the condition regarding appointment of consultants remained unfulfilled, the Bank informed
the Government that the Loan Agreement could not be made effective, hence the Loan Agreement was
terminated after December 31, 1980.






AfTACHiMEN
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
INDIA
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 1743-IN)
BASIC DATA
Loan Amount:              US$250.0 million
Cancellations:            US$250.0 million
Approval Date:            June 26, 1979
Agreement Date:           August 20, 1979
Effective Date:           No Effectiveness
Closing Date:             January 1, 1981



