Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CoPY
Report No. P-2599-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
June 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1         =  Paise 100
US$1          =  Rs 8.60
Rs 1         =  US$0.1163
Rs 1 million =  US$116,279.07
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been offi-
cially valued relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/
Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. As of
June 4, 1979 the exchange rate was Rs 8.14 to US$1.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI     -    Government of India
GOM     -    Government of Maharashtra
FCI     -    Fertilizer Corporation of India
FPDIL   -    Fertilizer (Planning and Development) India Ltd.
ONGC    -    Oil and Natural Gas Commission
RCF     -    Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd..
MIDC    -    Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
ppm     -    Parts per million
tpd     -    (Metric) Tons per day
tpy     -    (Metric) Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF).
Amount:                US$250 million.
Terms:                 20 years, including 5 years' of grace.
Interest Rate:         7.90% per annum.
Relending Terms:       From India to RCF for 15 years, including 5 years'
grace, with interest at 10-1/4% per annum. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the Government of India.
Project
Description:         Construction of a fertilizer plant at Thal, in the State
of Maharashtra, with a daily capacity of about 2,700
tons of ammonia and about 4,500 tons of urea, including
the provision of infrastructure, auxiliary, and offsite
faciLities required for the efficient maintenance and
operation of the plant. Possible risks facing the proj-
ect are in the form of technical problems, implementa-
tion delays and cost over-runs. These risks are mini-
mized by the use of commercially proven technologies
supplied by internationally recognized engineering
firms and by the use of the services of the Fertilizer
(Planning and Development) India Ltd. and RCF staff who
are experienced in building and commissioning similar
plants. Potential risks associated with the timely
availability of required infrastructural facilities
will be reduced by the Government of Maharashtra's
confirmation that these would be provided and arrange-
ments made for monitoring the execution of this work.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii~ -
Estimated Cost:                                                (US$ million)
~ Local   Foreign   Total
Equipment and Spares             80.6      193.7    274.3
Freight and Inland
Transportation                  5.6       16.9     22.5
Duties and Taxes                 73.0         -       73.0
Engineering Services             18.3       23.6      41.9
Project Management Services   12.6           0.5      13.1
Erection                         31.6         -       31.6
Land and Civil Works             37.4        2.0      39.4
Commissioning Charges             9.9         -        9.9
Working Capital                  70.7        3.7      74.4
Rail Track                       12.6        -        12.6
Power Connection                  2.4        -         2.4
Township                          8.0        0.5       8.5
Base Cost                    362.7      240.9    603.6
Physical Contingencies           27.7       23.7      51.4
Price Contingencies              51.7       44.3      96.0
Total Project Cost           442.1 1/  308.9    751.0 1/
Interest during
Construction                  27.1       34.2      61.3
Total Financing Required   469.2        343.1    812.3
Total Project Cost
Net of Duties and Taxes   369.1        308.9    678.0
Financing Plan: 2/                                             (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
Equity - GOI                    253.2        -       253.2
Equity - RCF                     65.0        -        65.0
Long-term Debt-GOI               22.2       93.1 3/ 115.3
Long-term Debt-IBRD               -        250.0    250.0
Short-term Debt 4/               55.8         -      55.8
Total              396.2      343.1    739.3
1/  Including US$73 million in duties and taxes.
2/  Covers total project cost including interest during construction, but
excluding duties and taxes.
3/  Includes possible ODM (UK) financing of about US$45 million.
4/  Commercial bank short-term borrowings.  The amount of such borrowings
may be less than forecast depending upon the amount of RCF internally
generated funds made available to finance the project.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                          FY80   FY81   FY82    FY83    FY84
Annual.           28.0   57.0   73.0    52.0    40.0
Cumulative        28.0   85.0  158.0   210.0   250.0
Rate of Return:        About 20%
Appraisal Report:      1993-]LN dated June 14, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL BIANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Government of India (GOI) in an amount equivalent to US$250 million to
help finance the construction of an ammonia/urea fertilizer complex at Thal
in the State of Maharashtra. Amortization would be over 20 years, including 5
years' grace, at 7.90% interest per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be
on-lent by GOI to the Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF) for a
period of 15 years, including 5 years' grace, at an interest rate of 10-1/4%
per annum. The proposed on--lending rate is positive and consistent with
interest charged by financial institutions in India for similar loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large. low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GD]?.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975.  Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period.  Slow growth in agriculture acted as
a drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total,
but also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.
Growth in industrial output: has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950
and 1975, but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high
as can be expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry
Project (Report No. P--2562-IN), dated May 23, 1979.



-2-
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 riecord crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during



- 3 -
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. FertiLizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. These rates of growth in agricultural inputs
and output are heartening evidence that the good harvests of 1975/76 and
1977/78 were not isolated peaks resulting from good weather alone but
represent an increased agricultural production capacity.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. P'ower production increased by 12% or more but continuing shortages
in many St:ates necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance oi- payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/73 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export prDfitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.



- 4 -
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant under-
employment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the poorest
sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of some of
the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the Plan
recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments.  The
highly effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will
raise yields as it takes hold progressively across India in the near future.
Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain production: one
is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties of rice;
another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the traditional
wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends along with the
other favorable developments have caused rice production to rise impressively
in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain production is the



rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditionally rice areas (West
Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       :[n industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future.  Oer the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require som1e changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure.  Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-sca]Le enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising oE the exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major inadustries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy fcreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports.  The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in dlemand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself feLt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricuLtural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished lesather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in. industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.



- 6 -
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current low level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless



- 7 -
families and families owing less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares.  An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas.  Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.        Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 56 loans and 113 development
credits to India totalling US$2,281 million and US$6,747 million (both net
of cancellation), respective'Ly. Of these amounts, US$978 million had been
repaid, and US$2,720 million was still undisbursed as of April 30, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of April 30,
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.        Since 1957, IFC has made 17 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 mi'Llion has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of April 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.        In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity ut:ilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, wrater supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.        The direction of aissistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's need[s and the Government's priorities.  The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years.  Special emphasis will be given to pro-
jects benefitting small fartners. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,



- 8 -
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
April 30, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,350 million, of
which US$647 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$703 million.
25.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79.  On March 31, 1978, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$18.7 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 34%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
26.        Increased fertilizer use is an essential element in India's program
to increase agricultural output. The output of foodgrains, particularly the
high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice, is largely a function of the
fertilizer application rate, although the availability of other inputs --



- 9 -
water, seeds, pesticides, research, extension services, credit and appro-
priate pricing and distribution systems -- are also essential to improved
agricultural productivity. It is estimated that, under present conditions
in India, the application of one nutrient ton of fertilizer yields an average
incremental production of between seven and ten tons of grain. Thus, short-
falls in the supply of fertilizer, whether imported or produced domestic-
ally, have consequences of the utmost gravity for essential food supplies.
27.       Consumption of fertilizers in India grew at an average annual rate
of about 23% in the decade 1961/62-71/72. Thereafter, consumption stagnated
during the period 1972/73-74/75, due primarily to sharp price increases and
drought. However, as a result of improved agricultural conditions and a
reduction in the price of nitrogen, consumption has now recovered; it reached
a level of 4.3 million nutrient tons in 1977/78, of which 68% was nitrogen,
20% phosphates and 12% potash. The estimated level of consumption for 1978/79
is 5.1 million nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over the previous year.
Although fertilizer consumption per hectare (total nutrients) has increased
significantly, the current Indian average of 29.6 kg/ha of arable land still
remains very low relative to (1977) usage in other countries (e.g., Pakistan
32.3; Mexico 41.9; Philippines 33.6; Egypt 175.1). The Bank's estimate of the
growth rat:e of demand for the period 1978-83 is about 10.7%, which yields a
conservati ve estimate of 1982/83 demand of some 6.7 million nutrient tons,
of which nitrogenous fertilizers account for about 4.8 million tons. Demand
in 1987/88 is projected at 11.0 million tons, including 8.2 million tons of
nitrogen. At present, fertilizer consumption rests on a relatively narrow
base of consumers and even the conservative growth rates that have been
projected can only be achieved through implementation of proposed measures
directed towards widening the base, including provision of adequate supplies,
increased credit, intensive promotion campaigns and expansion of the distri-
bution system.
28.       Since 1950, when the modern fertilizer industry in India was in its
infancy, installed capacity for the production of nitrogen and phosphate has
grown from 66,000 tons per year (tpy) to its current level of 3.9 million tpy.
The expansion of the industry has generally followed international trends with
respect to production technologies and plant capacities. There has been a
significant shift toward high-analysis products and complex fertilizers, and
the typical size of a nitrogen facility has increased ten-fold from 50-100
tons per day (tpd) to 600-1,100 tpd of ammonia. Locational decisions have
been made in the light of r^egional supply/demand, raw material sources and
infrastructure considerations. The feedstock policies for ammonia production
have emphasized full use of available natural gas and naphtha before planning
projects based on fuel oil and coal. Two coal-based plants are now nearing
completion; the Government intends to assess operating experience with these
plants before sanctioning further investment in fertilizer capacity based on
coal. The discovery in the Arabian Sea of oil with associated natural gas and
of free gas reserves has once again made this very efficient feedstock avail-
able for fertilizer production, which is the highest priority use to which the
gas, now being used as fueL for power generation, could be put, at least for
the next several years.



- 10 -
Capacity Utilization
29.        The average utilization of available capacity has been relatively
low in India, ranging from 58% to 74% in the 1970s. However, these averages
disguise a wide range of performance. Overall capacity utilization reached
a peak of 74% in 1972/73 with the good performance of established plants, but
declined sharply to 58% in 1973/74 as new units came into production. Since
1973/74, capacity utilization has once again increased steadily until in
1978 when it matched its earlier peak capacity utilization rate with a com-
bined average of 74% for the public and private sectors, with private sector
plants operating at 86% of capacity and public and joint sector plants at
69%. In addition to management, key determining factors which have affected
public sector performance are plant age, size of plant, power availability
and feedstock. The Government is taking several measures to further improve
capacity utilization, including plant modernization, changes in feedstock, and
other technological improvements as well as the establishment of a monitoring
system to review weekly production statistics against unit-by-unit targets.
In addition, steps are being taken to eliminate power shortages and fluctua-
tions, which were responsible for about 20% of unscheduled production losses
in the past three years. These measures are expected to increase output from
old and technologically deficient plants to 75% of capacity and from stabil-
ized plants to 85% of capacity by 1985, bringing capacity utilization for the
whole industry to a satisfactory level of 84%.
Production
30.       Fertilizer production in India has generally lagged behind con-
sumption. In the period 1971/72 to 1977/78, annual imports averaged 742,000
tons of nitrogen, 214,000 tons of phosphates and 376,000 tons of potash.
(All potash requirements are imported). Thus, imports of nitrogen and
phosphates were equivalent to 36% and 34%, respectively, of consumption.
The Government's objective is to meet most of the requirements for nitrogen
and phosphates from domestic production, supplemented by imports as necessary
to ensure adequate availability. A large investment program is now being
implemented with seven projects to be commissioned in 1980, two in 1981, and
six (including the proposed project) during 1982 to 1985. Although, as a
result, the share of imports is expected to decline by 1985 to some 12% of
projected nitrogen consumption (690,000 tons) and 26% of projected phos-
phate consumption (360,000 tons), the total volume of imports will increase
substantially through the 1980s unless additional fertilizer capacity can be
commissioned during the period. Even if fertilizer demand grew only by 9%
per year during 1977-1985, planned production would only be just adequate to
meet demand.
Pricing
31.       The Government has traditionally regulated the distribution and
pricing of straight nitrogen products while allowing manufacturers greater
freedom with respect to complex and phosphatic fertilizers. Farm gate



- 11 -
urea prices, controlled by the Government, determine the ex-factory prices
allowed to fertilizer producers. Up to mid-1973, the international urea
prices were lower than the ex-factory prices allowed to the Indian plants,
mainly due to the large world surpluses that were available for interna-
tional trade. Between mid-1973 and early 1976, when international urea
prices were much higher than domestic ex-factory prices, the Government
introduced a system of "pooled" pricing.  Urea was made available to the
farmer at Rs 1,820 (US$212) per ton, 1/ even when the landed cost of imported
urea was around Rs 2,680 (US$312) per ton.  At that time, sale of locally
produced urea, which had an ex-factory price of Rs 1,095 (US$127) 2/ per ton,
provided Rs 610 (US$71) per ton to the pool to subsidize imports. As the
imported urea price dropped, the cross subsidy has been reduced, and urea
is now available to the fanner at Rs 1,297 (US$151) per ton. 1/ With the
sharp increases in input prices following the 1973 oil price increases, the
ex-factory realization per ton of urea increased from Rs 808 (US$94) in
1972/73 to Rs 1,158 (US$135) in 1978/79. This increase was not adequate to
cover the cost increases. In November 1977, the Government announced a
revised pricing policy based on an agreed return to manufacturers of straight
nitrogenous fertilizers witlhout increasing the farm gate price. The new
formula introduced a two-tier pricing system - an ex-factory price allowed
to the industry and a subsidized retail price to make fertilizer usage attrac-
tive to farmers. The pricing policy was extended to complex fertilizers in
early 1979. The revised pricing policy provides each producing unit a 12%
after tax-return (or a 28.4% before-tax return, whichever is higher) on net
fixed assets and working capital less long-term borrowings at 80% capacity
utilization; this should provide greater incentive for improving capacity
utilization and significantly ease the financial pressure on the industry
and encourage reinvestment by providing adequate cash flow in the initial
operating years. The average domestic ex-factory price is now marginally (5%)
below the landed cost of imported fertilizer. At the same time, the prices to
the farmer are about 15% below the import prices as a result of Government
subsidies to the farmers through the two-tier pricing system. Given India's
relatively strong domestic savings performance - and the pervasive economic
and social benefits associated with rapid growth in fertilizer use - this
is a reasonable policy. The Government has agreed that it will not take or
cause to be taken any action which, assuming production under conditions of
efficient operation, would prevent fertilizer manufacturers from meeting all
their expenses, servicing their debts, and earning a reasonable return on
invested capital (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Operations
32.       The Bank Group hais supported the fertilizer industry in India
through participation in thie financing of nine projects with a total contri-
bution of US$473.4 million. IDA has made Credits for the Fertilizers and
1/   Excluding dealer's margin and freight which total an additional Rs 153
(US$18) per ton.
2/   Excludes excise duty of Rs 115 (US$13).



- 12 -
Chemicals, Travancore Ltd. plant in Cochin and for the Gorakhpur, Nangal,
Trombay and Sindri units of the Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI). All
of these projects, which aimed at a balanced expansion of capacity while at
the same time removing bottlenecks to the efficient utilization of existing
capacity, have been completed. A Bank loan was made in 1975 for a new plant
to be constructed by the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative, Ltd. at
Phulpur; this project is proceeding satisfactorily and is scheduled to be
commissioned in late 1979. The IDA-financed Fertilizer Industry Project of
December 1975 included a variety of sub-projects designed to increase capacity
utilization at sixteen plants; after initial delays in obtaining the necessary
formal approvals, this project is now proceeding well. IFC has participated
in two private sector fertilizer projects, Indian Explosives Ltd. and Zuari
Agro-Chemicals Ltd., both of which are now in satisfactory operation. A
project completion and OED report finalized for the Gorakhpur Expansion
Project concluded that, despite some delays and a cost overrun, the project
was a technical success and improved the financial and economic returns of
the Fertilizer Corporation of India. Lessons learnt in this and other projects
relate to improved implementation, monitoring and management systems, need
for captive power and pricing policy.  These and other lessons have been
incorporated in the design of this project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was appraised by missions which visited India
in January 1978 and February 1979. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1993-IN,
dated June 14, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive Direc-
tors.  Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1979 with Mr. S. C. Jain
of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance as coordinator of
the Indian delegation. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Description
34.       The proposed loan would help finance the construction of a fertilizer
plant at Thal in the State of Maharashtra, to produce 2,700 tons per day (tpd)
of ammonia and 4,500 tpd of urea. It would consist of two gas-based ammonia
units with a capacity of 1,350 tpd each, and three urea units with a capacity
of 1,500 tpd each, as well as all necessary auxiliary and off-site facilities
including steam boilers, power generators, product handling and storage
facilities, and maintenance shops. The project also includes the cost of
a township, rail siding and power link estimated to cost about US$26 million,
or about 3% of total project costs 1/.
1/   Other infrastructure items not included in the project costs are a gas
transmission pipeline, road transportation and water supply to the
project. These will be implemented by the relevant State and Central
Government agencies in conformity with the project sche,dule and their
costs recovered from RCF and other users.



- 13 -
35.       The project is expected to be mechanically completed in February
1983 (first: units of ammonia and urea) and to start commercial production
in August 1.983. It is part of the Government's overall plan to use the
associated and non-associated gas from the Bombay High offshore oil fields.
The ammonia units would be the largest steam reformation plants yet to be
built in Inidia. Plants of similar capacity are successfully in operation in
the US and elsewhere and a 1,100 tpd plant is already operating successfully
in India.
Project Implementation
36.       The Thal project would be implemented by Rashtriya Chemicals and
Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF), a new public sector fertilizer enterprise established
on April 1, 1978, as a result of the restructuring of the Fertilizer Corpora-
tion of India (FCI). RCF is also responsible for the operation of the Trombay
unit, formerly with FCI.  The issued capital of RCF, when formed, was Rs 1,126
million (U:3$131 million). RtCF is headed by a 12-member Board of Directors
appointed by the Government. The former General Manager of the Trombay unit
has been appointed as RCF's Chairman and Managing Director. An experienced
Finance Mamager, already in the Trombay Unit, has been appointed RCF's Finance
Director.
37.       'Even though India has developed considerable capabilities in the
design, engineering and construction of fertilizer plants, Indian engineering
firms do not have adequate experience with plants of the size proposed for
this project. RCF, therefore, intends to select two foreign engineering firms
with adequate experience in building ammonia and urea plants of similar capa-
city to provide process know-how and to assume full responsibility for sound
engineering, process guarantees and timely completion of the plants. Selec-
tion of these firms is undeirway. Contracts should be signed by October 1979
(for ammonia) and December 1979 (for urea). As the engineering works for the
ammonia plants are critical to timely project implementation, the appointment
of the ammonia plant engineesring consultants is a condition of effectiveness
of the loan (Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). The Project is expected
to be completed in 48 months from the date the ammonia engineering firm com-
mences work, provided satisfactory agreements are entered into by RCF for
the supply of the steam gen,eration facilities required for the project by
September 30, 1979 (Section 3.05 (ii) of the Project Agreement). RCF will
utilize Indian engineering expertise provided by Fertilizer (Planning and
Development) India Ltd. (FPDIL) (formerly a part of FCI), to the extent
possible for detailed engineering, procurement, shop inspection, etc. A
General Manager with extensive experience in project implementation and plant
operation has already been appointed by RCF to coordinate implementation of
the project with the process engineering firms, FPDIL and other contractors.
The General Manager will be assisted by a Project Manager with experience in
coordinating and monitoring project construction, who has also been appointed,
and by man,agement teams drawn from engineering and other concerned disciplines.
A draft Project Implementation Manual discussed during negotiations will be
finalized by RCF and submitted to the Bank before November 30, 1979 (Section
3.03(c) of' the Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Staffing and Training
38.       The Project will employ about 1,565 persons including managers,
supervisors, skilled technicians and semi-skilled workers. The core of
the managers and supervisors will be drawn from the pool of about 9,000
managers and supervisors now available in the Indian Fertilizer industry.
The remaining staff will be recruited from the technical colleges and schools
and trained in RCF's training facilities at Trombay.  After initial orienta-
tion the staff will be given on-the-job training overseas in plants similar
to the proposed plants at Thal to enable them to gain sufficient experience
in plant management and operation. RCF has already hired an experienced
Training Manager to formulate its training plans for the operational staff
of the project and will submit a detailed training plan to the Bank before
December 31, 1979 (Section 2.10 (i) of the Project Agreement).
Infrastructure
39.       The project's infrastructure requirements will be built as follows:
township by RCF; road strengthening, water supply and power line by State
Government agencies; gas supply and rail siding by Central iGovernment agencies.
GOI has agreed to provide the railway facilities for the movement of raw mate-
rials required for the project and for the finished products to be manufactured
under the project (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). RCF has already
taken possession of about 320 hectares of land required for the construction
and operation of the project and detailed soil investigations of the entire
area have been completed. The Government of Maharashtra (GOM) has formed a
Coordinating Committee to review the progress of construction of the infra-
structure facilities by the various State agencies concerned and to provide
the needed inputs and resources for their timely completion. GOM will pro-
vide adequate funds and facilities for the project's water, roads and power
requirements and will monitor their execution through the Coordinating
Committee referred to above which will continue to function throughout the
project implementation period. The finalization of satisfactory agreements
by RCF for adequate supplies of natural gas, coal, power and water to enable
the proposed plant to operate at full capacity is a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
Environmental Aspects and Safety
40.       As the project will create a major industry in a relatively under-
developed rural area adjoining Bombay, the Bank has carefulLy reviewed its
environmental aspects to ensure that project design and location will not
adversely affect the region. The major potential pollutants from the complex
are ammonia and urea from the main process plants and the fly ash dust and
sulfur dioxide from the coal fired boilers. The only other important effluent
will be the waste from the water treatment and demineralizing facilities. The
plants will be designed and engineered to minimize the introduction of ammonia
and urea into the liquid effluent streams. Effluents containing ammonia and
urea will be collected separately, hydrolyzed to decompose t:he urea to ammonia
and stripped. The effluent leaving the plants will contain less than 25 parts
per million (ppm) of ammonia and 200 ppm of urea. The urea dust escape from



- 15 -
the prilling tower into the atmosphere will be reduced by scrubbing the dust
laden gases with water. The combined liquid effluent of the project will be
monitored, treated suitably and discharged into the sea. The coal-fired
boilers will use Grade I coal (below 0.6% sulphur) and will change-over to
using natural gas instead of coal, whenever stack emissions from burning coal
exceed agreed levels. The boilers will be fitted with electrostatic precip-
itators and stacks of minimum 150 meters height to minimize fly ash dust
allowed into the atmosphere. The pollution control and monitoring arrange-
ments planned for the project have been reviewed by the competent regulatory
agency, the Maharashtra Prevention of Water Pollution Board, which has issued
a no-objection certificate prescribing the norms and conditions to be followed
by the project. The prescribed norms are in conformity with internationally
accepted standards and in some cases are even more stringent. The Bank, with
the help of an internationally reputed firm of pollution control consultants,
has reviewed the arrangements made for the project and the norms prescribed
by the State authorities, and is satisfied that the standards can be met and
are acceptable. RCF has agreed to implement specific measures satisfactory to
the bank to meet the environmental requirements for the project (Section 2.09
of the Loan Agreement). For this purpose, RCF will appoint independent con-
sultants satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1979 to design overall
project pollution control systems, and present them for review by the Bank
before June 30, 1980. RCF will also be required to ensure that the proposed
pollution control measures are fully implemented and will be responsible for
continuing to monitor them (Sections 2.02(b), 2.09 and 2.10 (iii) of the
Project Agreement). The Bank has also been concerned to ensure that the
broader environmental aspects of this project are not overlooked, in par-
ticular, the project's immediate impact on the nearby town of Alibag and
the longer-term possibility of the unplanned development that could result
from the availability of the infrastructure associated with this project. GOM
will accordingly carry out a study of the infrastructural requirements of the
area in the context of this project through the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority, and prepare an action program, including a timetable
for its implementation by June 30, 1980.
41.       Safety norms employed by RCF will be in conformity with those laid
down by the State Inspectorate of Factories for industrial plants. Plant
designs and plans will be reviewed by the Inspectorate as part of their
normal industrial safety responsibilities. The project's fire-fighting
system provides for emergency pumps, overhead reservoir and fire hydrants,
and facilities for combatting chemical fires. These systems will be engi-
neered to norms prescribed by the public sector General Insurance Company,
which are satisfactory. RCF staff will include well trained and qualified
personnel to operate its safety and fire-fighting systems.
Resettlement
42.       RCF has already made provision for the payment of adequate compen-
sation for all private land acquired for the project and will additionally
recruit and employ after training at least one person from each family whose
land has been acquired. In this connection, RCF has already appointed a
Rehabilitation Officer whose services will be retained as long as necessary
to assist in the rehabilitation of the families affected by the acquisition
of land f-or the project (Section 2.08(b) of the Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing
43.        The total project cost, including contingencies and working capital
but excluding duties and taxes, is estimated at US$678.0 million equivalent,
of which US$308.9 million represents the estimated foreign exchange cost.
Interest during construction adds another US$61.3 million to the total financ-
ing required for the project. The cost estimates include the infrastructure
investments for the township, power line and rail siding, but exclude those
for water supply, road strengthening and the proposed gas pipeline from
the Bombay High terminal at Uran, which would be borne by the Maharashtra
Industrial Development Corporation, the State Government and the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission, respectively and paid for by RCF and other consumers
through user charges. The proposed loan would provide about 37% of the
estimated project cost of US$678 million, net of duties and taxes, and
approximately 81% of the estimated foreign exchange cost.  The proceeds
of the Bank loan would be on-lent to RCF for a period of 15 years, including
5 years' grace, at a net interest rate of 10-1/4% per annum. The execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and RCF incorporating these terms
and conditions is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the
Loan Agreement). The balance of financing required would be in the form of
loans and equity contribution from GOI, (US$368.5 million) including possible
UK financing of part of the offsites plus equity from RCF (IJS$65.0 million),
and short-term financing, either from RCF's internal resources, or from
commercial banks (US$55.8 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
44.        The design and engineering services for the ammonia and urea plants
are being obtained in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants. All equipment and material for the project to be financed under
the proposed loan would be procured from qualified suppliers in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. International competitive bidding
will be used for all items except for critical or proprietary imported items
and items with a value of US$100,000 or less, both totalling an amount not
exceeding US$25 million, which would be procured by prudent international
shopping in accordance with an agreed list of goods. Indian manufacturers
competing under international competitive bidding will be granted a preference
margin of 15% or the current rate of import duty, whichever is less.
45.        The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
cost of consultants' services (US$25 million), and against 100% of the c.i.f.
or ex-factory cost of equipment and materials for the ammonia and urea plants
(US$215 million). US$10 million would be unallocated. It is estimated that
Indian suppliers will supply about 32% (US$80 million) of the total cost of
equipment and materials financed under the Bank loan (US$250 million), and
the balance (US$170 million) will be imported.
Marketing
46.        At a 90% production level, the Thal unit would sell about 1.34 mil-
lion tons per year (tpy) of urea and about 26,730 tpy of ammonia. A national



- 17 -
fertilizer marketing plan has been developed, which is designed to minimize
cross-movements of products from different producers in the country and to
ensure that each consuming area has more than one source of supply. As part
of this marketing strategy, following the restructuring of FCI, its Western
Marketing Division (which was responsible for marketing the fertilizer pro-
duced at its Trombay plant) has become a part of RCF with responsibility for
marketing fertilizer products in Maharashtra and other relevant markets. RCF
expects to strengthen and expand its marketing organization, especially in
Uttar Pradesh, by the addition of about 150 sales staff and by increasing the
number of fertilizer distributors handling its products from 2,000 to 4,500 by
the early 1980s. By 1985, about 35% of the urea produced at Thal is expected
to be abscrbed by farmers in Maharashtra, where the plant is situated, and the
balance will be marketed in Uttar Pradesh. Subsequently, as demand grows in
the Southern States during the late 1980s, a part of the project's output
would be sold there, reducing the volume of urea sales in the North. The
surplus ammonia is expected to be taken up by other fertilizer plants and
industrial users, mainly substituting for imports. Given the overall short-
fall in supply of nitrogenous fertilizer expected to prevail in India for the
foreseeable future, together with the fact that the intensity of fertilizer
use in Indlia is generally low, even with the proposed project and other
planned investments, there should be no problem in marketing the urea output
of the project.
RCF Finances
47.        The sales revenue from the project is expected to increase from
Rs 772 million (US$90 million) in 1983/84, when the plants are commissioned,
to Rs 3,563 million (US$414 million) in 1986/87, when capacity utilization
is expected to reach 90%. Net profits (after taxes) are expected to increase
from Rs 1()0 million (US$11.6 million) to Rs 964 million (US$112.1 million) over
the same period. Thal is expected to generate, immediately after commission-
ing, sufficient cash to meet all its obligations. Its 1985/86 debt service
coverage of 2.7, current ratio of 6.7 and debt/equity ratio of 34/66 are all
satisfactory. These financial indicators remain satisfactory throughout the
life of the project.
48.        While the new pricing formula (para 31) provides a strong incentive
to producers to reinvest their earnings in fixed assets, no reinvestment pro-
gram has been assumed for purposes of the financial projections since RCF has
just been formed and investment programs of Government companies are centrally
coordinated. The project has good financial ratios for the initial years of
operation., From the fourthb year of operation, the project will be able to pay
a yearly dlividend of 10% orL share capital. Although the new pricing formula
allows, in current terms, the higher of the 12% after tax or a 28.4% pre-tax
annual relurn on net worth for each producing unit, the same pricing formula
also resu'Lts in a before tax discounted financial rate of return in constant
1978 rupees of about 9% for the project compared to an economic rate of return
of about 20% (para 51). The large difference between the financial and the
economic rates of return is mainly due to the difference between the financial
price for urea, calculated according to the retention price formula, and the
forecast international urea price.



- 18 -
49.        RCF will be required to maintain for itself and the Thal unit a
debt/equity ratio of not more than 50/50, and a current ratio of at least
1.2:1. RCF will also be required not to declare dividends, prepay any debt
or make other cash distributions not related to its own internal corporate
operations which would reduce its current ratio below 1.5:1 and not to incur
additional debt if, as a result its projected debt service coverage would fall
below 1.4 (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
50.       The project's net annual foreign exchange savings, due to reduced
fertilizer imports, will be about US$200 million in 1978 dollars before
foreign debt service. Thus, the project's estimated foreign exchange require-
ment would be covered by savings in 1.7 years. The project will create about
1,500 jobs, in addition to the employment of more than 5,000 people during the
peak period of construction. Moreover, it is expected to support another
5,000 or more jobs through secondary and tertiary employment.
51.       The project's economic rate of return is calculated at about 20%,
based on estimated international fertilizer prices projected to prevail in the
mid-1980s. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 10% drop in revenues would
reduce the return to 17%; a one-year delay in project completion, together
with a 10% increase in capital costs and a 10% reduction in capacity utili-
zation, would reduce it to 15%. If the economic cost of gas increases, without
any corresponding increase in product prices, by 1984 to US$110 per 1,000
normal cubic meters in 1978 dollars, instead of US$73.4 assumed in the base
case, the economic rate of return will drop to about 17% from 20%. Thus,
even under severe adverse circumstances, the project would yield a satisfac-
tory economic rate of return.
52.       The project faces possible risks in the form of (a) technical
problems, (b) delays in implementation, (c) cost over-runs and (d) delays
in the provision of necessary infrastructure. The risk of serious techical
problems arising during engineering, construction, erection or commissioning,
as well as the risk of delays in implementation and consequent cost over-runs,
are minimized by the use of commercially proven technologies supplied by
internationally recognized engineering firms. Moreover, RCF's staff and
FPDIL, who have ample experience in building and commissioning similar plants,
will supervise the implementation of the project. Potential risks associated
with the availability of the necessary infrastructural facilities will be
reduced by the arrangements referred to in paragraph 39 above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and RCF, and the Report Df the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
54.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and
RCF; the appointment of the ammonia plant engineering consultants and the
conclusion of satisfactory contracts for adequate supplies of natural gas,
coal (grade 1), power and water, are additional conditions of effectiveness
of the Loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). (
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 14, 1979






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /a
TOTAL                       3287.6                                              SAME           SAME        NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL                1818.3                          MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME            INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b  ESTIMATE lb   REGION /c    GROUP /d            GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA(LSS)                           60.0         90.0      350.0          167.4         182.9            432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIT'A
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          142.0         181.0      218.0(76)      65.7          88.9            251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, HID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           434.9        547.6      631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   17.6             19.5       20.6          12.8           15.0            24.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000
(MILLIONS)                973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION
(MILLIONS)               1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY
POPULATION IS REACHED  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          132.0        167.0      192.0           85.2          46.8             42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        247.0        308.0      347.0          322.6         254.1             95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             41.0         41.6        42.0(77)      44.0          43.6             44.9
15-64 YRS.                             55.9         55.3        55.0(77)      52.9          53.3             52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1           3.1        3.0(77)       2.9           2.9              3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  1.9          2.3         2.0           2.2           2.4              2.7
URBAN                                  2. _pB        3.4        3.5           4.2           4.0              8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           44.0         40.0       35.0(77)      45.1          44.3             42.2
CRUDE DEATH PATE (PER THOUSAND)           21.0         17.0       14.0(77)      17.3          19.7             12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.2          2.9        2.4(77)       3.2            2.9             3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..        3768.0    4518.0
USERS(PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          12.0       11.2          13.7          14.6             14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTICN                100.0         102.0      101.0          95.6          96.4            104.3
PER CAPITA (1969-71 = 100)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF CALORIES
(PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)             95.0         92.0       89.0           91.1          92.3            99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAN)                  31.0         53.0       48.0          49.6          50.0             56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             19.0         16.0        12.6          12.6          13.9             17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           28.0         22.0       10.0           ..             ..              7.5
HIEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.7          48.0       51.0(77)      43.1          45.8             53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                          ..         134.0      134.0           99.5         102.7             82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PIERCEhT OF
POPULATION
TOTAL                                  . .         17.0        33.0          30.0          26.4             31.1
URBAN                                   ..         60.0        83.0          66.3          63.5             68.5
RURAL                                   ..          6.0       20.0           17.2          14.1             18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          18.0       20.0           15.7          16.1             37.5
URBAN                                   ..         85.0        87.0          66.9          65.9             69.5
RURAL                                  ..           1.0        2.0            2.5           3.4             25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               5840.0/h    4890.0    3135.0(77)   8830.8           13432.7           9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         11590.0/h    5220.0    6320.0(76)   8479.3            6983.3           2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2590.0/i    2020.0    1231.0(77)   1624.5            1157.6            786.5
URBAN                                  ..            ,.        ..             ..          183.3            278.4
RURAL                                  ..                       '             '          1348.8           1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..          .            ..           19.5             19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSE3ILD
TOTAL                                  5.2           ..        5.2            ..            5.2
URBAN                                  5.2          ..         4.8            ..            4.8
RURAL                                  5.2           ..        5.3            ..            5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.6            . 8
URBAN                                                                                       5.8              2.3
RURAL                                  ..            ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS
TOTAL                                                                                      25.9             28.3
URBAN
RURAL                                  ..            ..         ..            ..            8.7             10.3



ANNFX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET          Page 2 of 5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME           SAME       NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC       INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b   ESTIMATE /b    REGION /c        GROUP /d      GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                   61.0         72.0      79.0(76)        59.1           62.9          75.8
FEMALE                 40.0         55.0      63.0(76)        38.4            45.9         67.9
MALE                   80.0         87.0      94.0(76)
SECONDARY:    TOTAL                   20.0        29.0       28.0(76)       19.9            14.4          17.7
FEMALE                 10.0         17.0      18.0(76)         9.9             8.8         12.9
MALE                    30.0        39.0       38.0(76)
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)      8.0          6.0_      ..              1.5            6.6           7.4
Pb'PIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               29.0         38.0      40.0            38.2           38.5          34.3
SECONDARY                             16.0        17.0        ..             23.5           19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            28.0         33.0      36.0            35.6           36.7          63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.7          1.0       1.2(76)         2.2            3.1           7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPtLATION                             5.0         21.0      24.0(76)        14.9           31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0.1        0.5            ..              2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      11.0         16.0      16.0(75)         6.4            6.0          16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       4.0          6.3       3.8             ..             1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        175000.0    218000.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      31.3        32.6       32.2           21.3            24.2          28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 73.0         73.8      72.5            62.8           60.7          54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    10.4         9.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8           39.8          37.8
MALE                                     57.1         52.3      51.3            52.4           53.3          50.3
FEMALE                                   27.9         27.1      26.2            15.6           19.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.1          1.1       1.1             1.3             1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       26.7        25.0/1      .-            18.6            20.3          19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      51.7        53.1/1      ..            42.8            45.1          48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        4.1          4.7/1     ..              7.3            5.7           5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       13.6        13.1/1      ..            19.3            16.8          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       83.0(77)        80.2           88.5         155.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       73.0(77)       67.2            71.9          97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .,           ..       80.0(75)         ..           100.8         143.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.0(77)       39.8            42.0          87.3
ESTIMATED POPU,LATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  .,           ..       47.0(77)       50.3            46.0          22.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       52.0(77)       44.6            48.0          36.7
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in eacb group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);
/f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million; /g 1951-60;  /h 1962;  Ji  1958;  /;  1967;
Tk 1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million; /1 1964-65.
-March, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
No0te. :Although the fa.tar Staten-  Era oore  gaely Judged the mot suthoritotine sd reLiable, it sho-ld also he notd tot they soy toot be intosga
nisoolly usop..r.ol    --cos  of the Lak ofsI       dadsddefinitions she co-pte used by different countries  L.t coloottog  the date.  The dais are, ,ton.thelsss
useful to des..ribe orders of magnitude, indi.cat  tresda, std chersotrieties certain  ajr differeecee hecse.asnncie
The odju-ted cr0u0  voracee for euh IndIcator are pop,cLstise-ighted gestri.c asses, exclding the se -   -e1-e  of the idictoIr she the eoe  populated
countryis eah group   Duo to taco of data, groupseae  ofoltidi.cator  for Capital Surplus Oil teportere  end of todiceicre,,  of Occese to, ster sad                         . enrt
dSpoal  iccig, bo,-o,  dlooriborlon sod Povatrt  for othe  coenry groops .-m populstios-slghtsd gaintnio semototsa-oino thehntesaluas sod
and eoat populated csnntrv.  Si.ce th  cveae         "f ouoriaS s ann  the Indicatore d.asedoso svstiebility of datsansd ho not clfo.r.  caution -tet be anercised
io relotina evoroses of one inleor tohuother.. These oversans on sastly useful1 asasee,onl.sicion   of  assented" vaLues unen icebariemt the  -sas1                  f  n
loioo   sa tine actono the couctrv and rfrosrue
LANS AREo (th uoettdfIs. h)Ponulation oar seicise - Population divided by nahr of practictig physi-
Total - Totse.crftarea  -mpoteing land ae  she  lod esters.                                clas  quaife   fr  aSmdical school at   iIiereiy I.-Il.
Agri-Icua    M.tos  vcnt esimate of agriculurl  era  asd capororily                      Poettletion  e .-  ..reia -cr       - P.pulotlu  divided by ntber of procticing
or poe-notly fuc crpe, pseturs, oarket and kitchen gardens or to                         malese  f         raedgradost   urese., practical ncrsea.. an d ass istantoum.
lie tallc,                                                                             ouaIosor  _seeitl bed - total.  rorha. and rural - Population  (total,
urban, ad ruaral) divided by theaire -pactiva naober of hospita  bode
cNP ZtR CAPITA (Uq$)   mop prcptsonte attrnt aktpis.svilol  in public ad private general sod ap-olei-ed heeito -adre
cacltd by  sascnesiomthod ase Wor   Bak ArIe  (1975-77 beels);                      habilitatison centes.   gos-pitale are secoblietinece  persanoetlp staffed by
l9b0, 1970. and 1977  Sao                                                                 t least oneph"sicist.  Eteibilsh-nce  providing pr.incpally .cuatel1
Eln   L1PTION  E! CAPTA   Annal ...-ptionof thbner.i   -Scare are sat intleded.  Rural hospitals, hosere, include heelth sod mdl-
RG001  CCONSLIPISP7CPT      nulco piso                        aca    nry(coal               Ia caters not perueseotly etaffed by a phv.icien  (but by a medical as-
and lignite  p             -r t-on  crl gas and  y,dro  nucle .. sh  tentharea1          citt.an,sdsie                 .) ehih offer Is-patient eccbasdation end
electrficit)' in kIt.t.orans of coal oquivlant prcpita.                                   r-id. Ia imitdrange o at  edinal Iscilitlee.
s&jineion or hoantoL bed - Ttota  onebar of adi.ains. to or diech-etee
POPL'LATION Aill VFAL 7TATTSTICS                                                             crnhsptl  dividd by the ocabr of beds.
Tota  onpolatic..  o,d-year  tilco.- A. of July 1; 19650, 1970, -d
1977 data.                                                                          ltt
lrbu  oocaco   (c,rc... c on ctota) -  atio of urban to total popolation;                 OaaeeSe. of housheld fboresoe. -e -oeodl - total. icbae. sed rurel -
Sliler...t duflolt cr-ofu -noo  arease nay affsct otop-ability of dais,                  A hosesab.Ld consists of a group of indivyiduals  h. thara lIoig quarters
un_n   _csrios                                                                         and their mai  osale.  A boarder or lodger say or my net he included in the
?pun.uloto  hrftic-oheebld for~ Steet  ica.  Pturplae.
Puusloin Yeer 15   - Curre.t population projoctice   are baeed  on               inton  teshmr oft=ren  se  no  - uctt.    rha.edrturel - Aoersgs tooshe
tO -ttlPopl  loo by age und eso and their -ortalLry end fertilit                  of persons per roa  in all, orbs., she rursl oucupied  .oe...tmoneSI deLlings.
aseoioglif  scptccnoyat birth iocre.. log sich cotcry's par caPita             ACcess to electriity Joarnen  ofdsl e  -  totl, urban  sond rural -
inton  love, and fonsle life scetac    tabiliningo  775years.                           iurhina   sellg    u   electricity inLivn.               tatr  a   mcne o
The Paraneter. Ic, fertilIty  ruts also have I levels seoing declios                     total,  trhen, SWd rural duellinge reepsotio-ly.
to frtIlIty scco-dicg in inc-n  level and Past lat    p..esingse-
fuotance.  loch  -cutry L. then. seigotd on. of thoso 9 conhination                 EDICATIO9S
of oortcitty  and 'ortility trende for proJection purr....e.                           t    'cid osrollsoet ratios
Stationaryt Ponulat (to  - Ito a Stacionary population, the re is Os greeth              PrMar arhoal - total, male and femae   Gross. tonal, male asd fetleS.. enol-
clots the birth r:tts isequs i to the deoth rate, end also the age                      oso  at  1 alegos at tics primary lee a.. I  paree.t.ags of respartina priaerr
utrut-r  ve,eineo-t.tan.  Thiu is achieved only slier fertility raiese                  shosl-age peptelti-n; nornly incide  c hildree aged 6-tipers hoc
dolnot  the'etacnn  level of colt net reprdaction rter, ohs each                    adjusted for differet lesgihe of priary education; foe cosorio              th
goetion of 'c_t  -opac.. itself ancly.  The Stteionary Pupuistion                    uciv'real eduatio  enol       -tmy eatocd tOO pernent ains Sine popiL.aere
ale  atatimaco  on th. noule ofteprojected chrScte tristics cf the                 halos or abs  the of1fltial aubhoal age.
nopularlo  in tho yea  2000, and thet rel of danlios of fertility rats                  ecbondary schao  -inel      mlansh  fosoe - Captatd as abas; seondary edua-
tu replacenst lrre.                                                                     tion requires atlntfo  pests  f epp-ve  primary intruction; proides
Yar Stationary potulation iu Reached - The year than lSttiseary Popula-                   generel yoncotIga o  teaher training instructions for pupils usually of
clot nios has hon. reached.                                                             12 to 17 peer  of ag;  orepoedanc  cau--s Ste genrall  secluded.
PPunlatlon d.n.liryPctoa L    slas   ornee  of ceadr     - - toaiaIit icaitttion                                                                                          4 inclde
Po   s   s       i-roar populetton par eqnsre kilo catr (110 hetares.)          techicl,idaro,rabrprgn                         icuateldpsatyor
of total area.                                                                          dSpot   te  af se    idr   nstltuti"'.
Por u. h- agricultural land - Conpured ae shov  for agricultural 1ed                   Psltabrratio - orim trn. ien  escodsrr - Total Students anroiled Le
onip.                                                                                   primary and aotondary levels divided by toabert  of teachers in the  oe
Pouaio   u  Stucus(Parc...t) - Children(0-14 peers), .orking-ege                     epoediog level..
(15-64 Years). s.) votived (hi yeart and over) us perrentagee of old-                 AduIilitercyraets eo )-Ltrt  adults (able to read and trite) as
yaar population,                                 ub.a percetag  of total adult popul-imon eed 15 peace and oner.
Ponulatio  nr_otrt  (orst-total.Anura  - Coepound anua
grouth -etee of Ltoa  and ure.anied-er populations for 1950-60,                     CNiPl
1960-7I, and170-77.                                                                   Pesestcre (oar thouaed  ..nulation) -  asegrca    oprie  mo.torca
Crude birtch vote ( or thouu..aod  - unual live birthe p.o thousand of                     -Smting less then eight persons; eucid-saoacs  he.rem.  en  military
aid-ee ..Population; 1960, 1970 and 1977 da ta,vehicles.
Crud.de ath vats (p.r theusod) -uAnnual dneiths par thousand of eLd-                    radio receiver  (nerthbnueand soonition   -All cypse of re.si-ne  far radio
year  poplation; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data..brnadcaet  ta  eea  public  e  th.-osed of population; u.cludes doniicessd
Gross r.eord-ction outo _- uvrege  -tsr ef daughters S   -oa  till hear                    re...iesr  in oco_triesh indL pears than  egitrt-tiae ofradio Seam sea  in
to her noma  nopruduccio  period if She aperianco  present  gs-                         effect; data for recat peare may not he co.tsecsble sinsce most cottriss
epc feclrtility rates ; usually five-year averages ending is 1960,                 aeibed I=oans"ng
1970, sod 19T5.                                                                       TOreeie   (see thusn  nulaton) - TV reosiosre  for hbeadcat to genera
PFnily PIsn-Log-o--ethors. anua  (thuaeds)- Ases1 tuaker ofpublie par thousand popuition; soldee  aclineesad TV r_siver  incon
acptors of hivtt-on_ro  devices( unde  .-Picee ofrational (ally                       trims se  in peers deke rsgitretion of IV aSct  use in infat.
PL.SlO  progron.                                                                   tiaeernruei   ot Ihtsn    neatol- Sho    the  verege sirnul-
F-il olortiga-osere (roceo  ofmarrIed aeo                    - eeetagea                     i    fdiygas  insre   esese ed, dfied aSSa periedino  pukIi-
nrriod  o -c of.cidherc    ag   15 -44 yes   h   a  birth-contro                       canton devoted primersily is recording gan-n   es I        t to cons-idered to
dvice   oal   aro   ionn    _on  ag  grn                                                e"diy  if It appea rsu  leest loe  tm Satsk
Clan   one  Stt"ndance oa usnita oayr    -   .ate  on- the umber of tickets
FOOl Arm NtUnTRIT                                                                            told during the Year. Including  ebieoeto drive-in tina     and sbus.
loden of foodrru2ction nor canito  (1O69-71el10     rodeo naber of pat                    uni".
caPita eui  rdudction of oIl food tasditir..
Por Zarico ounolo of ctre    vre    f rosuireseti) - Caopoted Ira                     ElIFLOISCtt
-urgy oquilvant of ncfood uuppiit  ov ilahIe inountry per capit.                      Total labor  arcsd fthousandst - fc-onaloallo  sours. peren, macbodingard
Pot day.  uoeilabla  -uppL los cupi doseetic pr-dution, imports less                    fore and unemloyed hot aetluding houcemivee., etudents, sto.  Ifiri7-
orpcrte, and changes i  Stuck.  Me.t Supplies  ncluda animal feed, seeds,               clon  in verits countries are not cosparshls.
q_st itlo-  ut.d in food pruceusig, and I....e to dis tribut ion,  in-                Female' grante  -female abor force uSo psontg f totel1 labor fume.1
qurnoture    Stimatd by EU basd on phyaialogiuci nee ds fcr nor-                _riulus  oacst  - Lbor forc  in faoning, foresry, busting sd fishing
Iat actIvityad heal"th cune idsriog anrscna  ceprtua ody                               asprcontege of total labor force
usigh., ago o-d cs disrcibutions of population, andSiLouing 10 Per-                   luduacry lamet)-     - Labor forco, is  ite.lg  conatroction,  -sf-cturig sod
--ncfru-    co  obostodtol                                                              electriciy  uster adge  s  erenag  of Iotl .abr foce
7evoa .Its opov of orutot, (oven  pet day) - pores  contet of Per                       Petocto    et   ecei-tta                   as  n   eal          oa,ml, and
catunoc  cplpoffod  arca.   et fopl  c             0(ot to defined- at              sal  lhort fcrce as percentages othirepcvepop.lation; 19h0, (9.70
ahovo. tqu1rtemninfaralcutie    talue   by'USIA pvovide for                             acd 1975 data.  Th... are ILOs. ad)uucad part icipation  ras onflecting oge-
a micccun allnanco 6ofi gruS:  ofcarol poucot, per day so.d 20 grae                 ostuture of thc population, and lung tna trend.
ofaImladpuapruilct         o   hic       grn  n~hccld heosl-  Protein.            Econmio donnoero  redo. -  utlo af population undor 15 and 65 and over to
'heceacandards aretractchec  h... of 75 gR_n  of total protein and                      the labor laroo in ag rtP of 15-64 year.
23 grs ol fo-coaL prcreio   an.o ovrage fnr the aortd, proposed by
FAQ in the Third could FudSuteyNUCutE DIITThO3                                                      I
Per ourita Proteiocndofa   nnlsd-Iu-su-pr-cic' ouppip of food                           F.roets  of privtcs inton   (both in coeb sed hind) reneiced by richoet 5
derived fra  -"nioulo ad pu1.es in gran  per day.                                       patboot, riches  2t percent, pooret 20 percent, sod Poorest 40 parnot
Child  orI-4) . -.rietr  rete (net thonosod) -Annual deaths per thous-                     of households.
and to ago group 1-4 peart, no chttdrMr    ith is age group.
POVElTY TAffliT GROU PS
HEALTH                                                                                    I Eio,ccd.enolat cuvr   "Ina  lanaI  (715 orrc-itu   - urban sod rura
LIferonetanc  at hi-ro     --arn     cAerug  oobar of yeore of life  resin-             uhblar  poer_   ooeslee  is  ha  Inca   leve  hems othi o nh                a
ing an  irth; 1900,  5970  sod  97dta                                                   nutritionally adequate dint plus .. steoia1 eo-lou.d rsquiraoeunt
Inan  Ion(t' - ito he  not thousan d   - Annu-1 douche uf -inecs   ta                     flordable.
Nacsr of pros (-tota, urca, sod rut- -iconSubleuc..... to                               Ina   f          outy
cocatorupul  fio-uaetd      e  te. cd  -urfoco  -cor  o  oc.teid but-ontedoolso   sn   bclc   ceu   oo lv(P(or--t  - orbo  sod
_nocrond uhrs -ohat u  fran   --ueord cvhl                   pilngs,            norel-Pecn  of pupuletton  lubcadorDaoae'bsolute pour".
nonnouapublic  fc-cuiornadpccloatd ou.t ouro than
20   aot   ro  ;vus  vvhocotb     otoa -Iding ci :hi  roes onSi
I cat.cuu.   n  ut)  rrc  ec,cocl  acec  ctiS P" I
obcto o-    ci  orvebec of hr ctbld  cnono tosond
ofcprvcotionr p rto  the Ian to -(n'.vt   the fuou(voas-or-edo                                                               -oeic  end Scol1 Dets Eioli.i-
'000cc tonoon to aiuc"tul  uonottvtouulutcoc,-o:a I. obu.ad                                                 Eonorc      .Laysic and Pro 7-tion- lepsor-e
rooven 00 (0 0010  cocc. otbat ,   coooolt ,erodbnttcret   I)-                                                          ach, 7,979
va   ;c-urro  cc)ct onor                       --y-a.  ti -o ucuth150 -r.  of
prtlio and toZl cn)n  calctv.



ANNEX I
ZOOSc DVm.emTM2D                          Page  4  of  5
03 IPU C WIT IN 1977: UN 150
b/                                                                                                c/
GROSS ATIONAL PF0DUCT IN 1977/7S                                                          ANUL MtU I GmONI  C  contont prices)
UW$ un.       J                                            1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1976/77
GNP *t Market Prices           101.47      100.0                                                3-9                3.8                3.2
,ros Domestic Invetmt           21.65       21.3
Gross Netional Saving           22.77       22.4
Current Account Science  d/      1.04        1.0
Resource Balance   _/          - 0.31      - 0.3
OuThi. WJOR PsCZ AND PRnUcTa     T IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)        labor Force            V.A. Per Dorker
U1# l.ln,       7,               M1.       S              11_    1 of National Averase
Agriculture                      24.5           46.6             130.0    72.1             18U             64
Industry                         11.8          22.3               20.2    11.2            582             199
Services                         16.3          31.1               30.2    16.7            542             i8
Total/average                    52.6          100.0             160.4   100.0             292            100
GCEvT PINUCR                                                 /
Geeral Government                                         Central GCermmnt
Re. lln      I         of                Clll si   3lr    of
1977/?S      1977/78                                      mm^/51T28l 7  17/8        19i7-977
Current Receipts                164.42         18.9         18.2                            95.62        11.0           10.5
Current Rdenditures             157.29         18.1         16.5                            95.27        10.9            9.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.13         0.8           1.6                            0.35         ns.             0.6
Capitel Exesditures  f/          62.58         7.2           7.0                           43.31          5.0            5.0
External Assistance (net) Al      9.82          1.1          1.6                             9.82         1.1            1.6
MONEY. CIRDIT AID PucKS            1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78   Sestmber 1977      S.,tmber 1978
(Is Billion outstanding at end of period)
mony and Quasi Honey                121.4      198.4     220.3      254.7      308.9      365.1         334.8            395.8
Sank  Credit to Goverinnt (net)      52.6       87.3      95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7         119.3            139.5
Blak Credit to Comercial Sector      64.6      107.0     126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0         195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                           January 1978      January 1979
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP    30.1       33.5      31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0     139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6      185.8        1S4.5             184.6
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2      25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2         3.2               0.1
6nlnk Credit to Goverment (net)      10.8       12.3       9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7        13.4              16.9
Rank Credit to Coercial Sector       19.4       22.6      18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5        16.6              14.4
*/ The per capita CH  estimate is at mrket prices, calculated by the conversion technique uned in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the svrage exchange rate provailing daring Ahe period covered.
b/ Quick Setimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one obervation before first year and one
observation after lest year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
jI External grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                   MERCHAANDISE EXPOILTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                       U0S$ KID.        7.
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753         6,276       6,800               Engineering Goods               610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928         -7,237      -8,400               Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                     -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               Gems                            377          7
NFS (net)                            310        360          650         700               Clothing                        331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                        Producta               278          5
Jute Manufactures              267          5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180          - 50          -                Iron Ore                        265          5
Other Factor Payments (list)          -          -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers  J/                    470        730        1,400       1,300               Sugar                           244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1.213         735        1.039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953        1,628        1,805               EXTERNL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1978 k
Amortization                   - 531      - 560        - 645        - 725                                                     Us$ billion
Transactions with IMF                242     - 337         - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)           - 794    -1,575       -2,076       -1,527                     Undisbursed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)          2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                 h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  kI       1,365      3,276        5,668        7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FMF 1977/78            15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                            1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                     US$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                   IBRD          IDA
Exports                               43         37           33        n.a.               Outstanding and Disbursed           613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                22         21           18        n.a.                Undisbursed                         615         1,992
oOutstanding, including
Undisbursed              1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1,00 - US$o.133333
Mid-December 1971 to ecd-June 1972        US$1.00 - PA 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - uS$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978               US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - FLs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (ne:).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid tc I2F, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given inclutde workers' remittances but: exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and initerest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/  Excludes exchange aidjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



X~~~~~~~~~~ . . .                                   .  . . . . . S.                                                                                       XNv                      o  o  o   O.   o.    o o oa o o
H1~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                  ~     ~~~                              ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                                              ~~~~~ o  O I  .  . . . . . . . .  .    
_l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
'0                                                                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r I
-0               0~~~0          _                                                                                                                                                                         0.|--3Nz             
44-40)     aaaaaa011    C 4aacaaaaaa-aa~rart~<o  40X^XXeeAee0e  H
14|                                                                                                                                                       n   > =- 0'  4t-.    a'   r _ 14 3 I I r A r U F F r > rn m o o o     o b b A A > A > A > A A r      3 I
e4      004.00    o000                0v00   I 1000               4   I I IA I 1000   1000   00   100   I  0000   r I 00000   10rOK t< 0 -   C O  flnO  
0                    '0                .0           0              .0        oN            000             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 I
10 -0 11 '9 -Z 4 4   10  4 4 4  4 4    4  4 4    IH                  .00         144 
0  1    i i  .~i I I  0'    I 4 I 10.1 I I I II I I I o14aO I I   I  101  I 4I ~1110111 I 0111                I            0        I   0 04
0                                             .0                             0                       00 4.14.    .        .    .  4.0
04~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loa       Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                              6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Developmlent Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               15.9         -        15.9
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             25.6        8.0       33.6
Undisbursed                           4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,720 million
as of April 30, 1979, reflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 (US$23.5 million) are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Credit 715 is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
currently estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%.
Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date:  November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the ccnstruction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was complIEted in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is proceedling satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 inclucles grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote mush-
room production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties.  Land has been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading
sites, and procurement and construction activities are well un6daeay-- The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment has been ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture
Project was declared effective on January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 3), 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. A second loan (Loan 1592)
continues support of the development of India's telecommunication system
through FY 1981 and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian
telecommunication industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$65 million had
been awarded by December 1978. This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; all but US$4 million of this amount has
also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.  However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily and no further delays in project
implementaiton are expected. Credit 598 is designed to increase the utiliza-
tion of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered
delays in sub-project prepaLration and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because oi- reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12
months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of- towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact.  Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
November 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for
50, and loans approved for 49 markets. Construction had been completed for
19 and was in progress for 31 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 11
market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and
improved farmers' terms of trade.  Progress under the Karnataka project is
improving. As of October 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion was underway for 36 o'f the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisi-
tion are nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are
expected to be completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.  The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor researclh aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$9.3 million by the end of
March. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; (expected) Effective
Date: June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
'Raving overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requir:ing project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project components and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of
additional water (455 mld) in the second quarter of 1979; completion of water
treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically fore-
cast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has
allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so
that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-1980,
two years later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the
project entity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implementation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of: project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in projec:t costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urban service system.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. Karnataka's decision to procure. plant equipment
jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 252 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. The response of small farmers to the project is excellent.
GOMP has plans to cover all districts in the State. Technical services in-
vestments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports.
The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
800 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and
procurement: is making adequate progress. Based upon the good results expe-
rienced, GOR is planning to expand the form of dairy development to all other
districts of the State.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursemenats reached 59% of total credit amount as of
December 31, 1978.
Ln. No. lCll   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtrai Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; jack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 7,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects, totalling US$123 million, finance the re-organi-
zation and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of
adaptive agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process srmallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum.  Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institujtional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations I-or more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978;, Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months. A
project supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit
816) is now effective.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered. Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial managerment systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority. Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date:  September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, seafood
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements had reached 46% of the loan amount on April 30, 1979.



ANNEX III
INDIA
THAL FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About 1-1/2 years.
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd.,
in association with Fertilizer (Planning
and Development) India Ltd.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the project
August 1977; October 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 1978 Appraisal;
February 1979 Post-appraisal.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 24, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 15, 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None



ANNEX III
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The appointment of ammonia plant engineering con-
sultants by RCF for the timely completion of the
ammonia plants is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 37);
(b) RCF will enter into satisfactory agreements for the
supply of the steam generation facilities required
for the project by September 30, 1979 (para 37);
(c) RCF will be required to enter into satisfactory con-
tracts for adequate supplies of natural gas, Grade I
coal, power and water as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (para 39);
(d) RCF has agreed to implement specific measures
satisfactory to the Bank to meet the environmental
requirements for the project and will appoint com-
petent independent consultants by December 31, 1979
to design overall project pollution control systems
for review by the Bank before June 30, 1980 and will
subsequently implement and monitor them (para 40); and
(e) The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOI and RCF is a condition of
loan effectiveness (para 43).



I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N; ED;-  Ii A-  0                                  0
C  w4-.  e                                           ~~~~MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                 ,'_                              \PRESENT AND PROPOSED
OF           .>,                   
AFGHANISTAN                                           L 8f        'i;wm.twFoio                                   FERTIL ZER P ANTS
C-   ':              F                                          Nsrogen        PMospFpre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C- ..
j     -j- tSiMAc//Ay<q\R4?                                                O~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ C Ises T.-,   rpo 
_S . <' ~~~~~~~~PRADFSH                                                                             N.,,l .i.
PAKISTAN                        C -d9a                   _                                                 rendUonTrlo  Budrs
.T'1 IA  'T                   / 14.
j  ./84tY4A/A ol      !                \CHINA                                                       r fG
/            >      ,f ~~~W DE LHI                            4_,5                                                      pR             3
/               Ftf~~~~KETRI                                                                      V        B -e    EA   >     HUTAN  IF-tl /   r. 
n  / ,~~~~~C                                     Kanpur                I,{      ,  1         .,i 
_    5. ~~~ 5z        Jdolipur                                         L  V ;Phu go h lpur B/H   p        ANGLADES                       '
K,E1,iAI on                                                                              WESTt  : 
TEtAL VA SHFT3                                                                                             ay((\XJ iGt;<
i            H//  IRAMAGU~~NDAM                                                       of enV
'   C  ~~~~~~ i                          *X;~~~~~OROMANDtL
,    i         ,     OHyderrlbrXd ~NAGARJUNAEICK krImdo
E  ,<           2     ~~~A ND)HRA            7
ZiJARI A( Rol 
,,OMangalore          )    w       Mdc             
MANGALORE    _      Brongolore)              Madra
i ;LV   (               SAA~~~~DRAS
A r a7 b i a n                   \             ~      *NLYtEljt
-to,                Se1, 7               AII            /    ,VADUi
FA T  l                                                             IrkXO(   20d      3@       40@       5 WitLs
hSRA6M;   ,   t7 2$,',_%                 ,0   ~~~~~1@0  200  30o  40,  EJ0  6qu  2to  8V KILOMETERS
.         Btcoi 
SRI LANKA 
rten#etetseredtwetFwdasSstafeex6vlrfletecwacF   a   f                                                                    > ixi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



