Domiment Of
The World Ban
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6629
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OMAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 985-OM)
February 11, 1987
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ThE WORLD BANK
WaI*5toA. D.C. 20433
US.A.
O0if of Du:kv.Gawai
February 11, 1987
:ORANDUK TO THE E_ ECUTIVI DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Oman - Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 985-OM)
Attached, for Information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Oman: Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 985-OH)" prepared by the EMENA Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This documnt h a rstlt ditibution and my be used by ecipls eab in the pefomce
of their offlciai dutie Its contets muy IOt othawis be dIcloed withut Wwold lBank aut_culn.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OMAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 985-OM
Table of Contents
ae
Preface    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...
Basic Data Sheet .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ii
Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    iv
T.    INTRODUCTION
II.    THE ECONOMIC PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT             1
A.  Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal     1
B.  Implementation and Performance. . . . . . . . . .     2
C.  Institutional Development . op. . . . . . . . . .     3
D.  Conclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
III.    TRANSPORT COMPONENT  e  O  . .   . . . . . . . . a X ..   .   4
A. Project Preparation, Objectives and Contents. . .      4
B.  Project Implementation and Cost . . . . . . . . .     4
C.  Institutional and Operational Development . . . .     5
D. Conclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
IV.    AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . * .      6
A. Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal      6
B.  Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
C.  Operating Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
D.  Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
E.  Bank Performance. . . . . . . . .                    10
Table
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . . .   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their ofAici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



OMAN
LOAN 985-OM
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PREFACE
This project, supported by Loan 985-NM for US$2.75 million, provided
an integrated program of assistance to help the Government of Oman overcome
its critical administrative and institutional constraints, and establish an
adequate structure to guide the future development of the economy. The loan
was originally scheduled to close on June 30, 1978 but was extended, 3 times,
to June 30, 1985 mainly to allow for continued disbursements under the
economic planning and management component. By February 1984 US$2.63 million
were disbursed and US$0.12 million cancelled.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is based on information
contained in the project files, contributions from the Europe, Middle East,
and North Africa, Transportation, Agriculture and Country Programs (2C)
Divisions, and interviews with Bank staff and consultants associated with the
project. No draft PCR was provided by the Borrower and no completion mission
£       took place. The PCR was sent to the Borrower for commuents but none were
received.
Thie project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



- it -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 985-OM
BASIC DATA SHEET
WEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                                Estimate        Actual
(US$ M)        (US$ M)
Total Project Cost                                   5.9            5.60
Loan Amount                                    2.75          2.75
Disbursed                                                    2.63
CancelLed                                                    0.12
Repaid                                                       2.63
Original
Ite                                     Plan        Actual
First mentioned in Files or Timetable                     08/14/72
Government's Application                                  09/12/72
Negotiations                                  02/19/74    03/11-13/74
Board Approval                                04/74       04/16/74
Loan Agreement Date                           05/74       05/15/74
Effectiveness Date                            09/13/74    12/11/74
Closing Date                                  06/30/78    06/30/85
Borrower                               Sultanate of Oman
Executing Agency                       Ministry of Development
Ministry of Conmunications and
Public Services
Fiscal Year of Borrower                January 1-December 31
Follow-on Project                      Oman:  Highway Maintenance Project
Loan 1441-OM



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month                  Date of
Item              Year                   Report
Identification         dar 72                 Apr 72*
Preparation            Dec 72                 Feb 73
Appraisal              Aug 73                  Jan 74
Month       No. of       Man-days         Date of
Item               Year       Persons      in Field      -    Report
Supervision
Transport           Jul 75          1             8             07/15/75
Transport           Dec 75          1             6             12/24/75
Agriculture         Jan 76          1             8             02/13/76
Transport           Jun 76          2             6             07/07/76
Tech. Asst.         Mar 76          2             4             04/06/76
Agriculture         Aug 76          4            14             09/30/76
Agriculture         Feb 77          1             7             02/28/77
Transport           Feb 78          1             5             03/21/78
Agriculture         Mar 78          1             7             05/08/78
Agriculture         Oct 78          1             8             11/10/78
Transport           Dec 78          3            11             01/25/79
Agriculture         Jun 79          1             5             07/03/79
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                       Omani Rial (RO)
Appraisal Year Average                                US$1 = 0.345
Intervening Years Average                            US$1 = 0.345
Completion Year Average                               US$1 = 0.345
* Economic Report



- iv -
OMAN
LOAN 985-OM
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
HIGHLIGHTS
This project represents the first Bank Group operation in Oman. It was
Adentified in early 1972 after a visit by a Bank economic mission, and
appraised in August 1973. The prevailing social and economic conditions of
the time are set out in the introduction to the PCR. It is sufficient to
mention here that in 1970 the Government of Oman had begun to embark on a
major development program but lacked the administrative procedure required to
direct these development efforts. The objectives of this Technical Assistance
Project were:
(a) to build up the Omani Government's institutions in the fields of
agriculture, transport and national economic planning and management;
(b) to help devise a suitable development strategy for Oman, inqluding
sectoral development programs;
(c) to provide operational and management assistance at the national
government level in the essential sectors of agriculture and transport; and
(d) to train various Omani officials in the performance of these functions.
The assistance was comprised of the provision of three specialist teams
dealing with economic planning and management; agriculture; and transportation.
Project cost remained very close to appraisal estimates (US$5.9 million
estimated, and US$5.6 million actual), and the project scope remained
essentially the same except for the agricultural component where a series of
setbacks (para 38) necessitated revision of the loan agreement. The loan
agreement was also modified to provide for a telecommunication assistance
project.
The project suffered some delays in completion. The targetted completion
da.a. was December 1977. The transport component was essentially completed on
time, by end 1977. The agriculture component was completei by October 1978
due to the need to redefine the project scope. The economic planning and
management component was completed in 1983 due to changes in team composition
and some delays in appointment of team members.
Overall the project (except for the agricultural component) met its
objectiveJ.  The economic planning and management and the transport components
were highly successful (paras 12 and 22 respectively). Both effectively
fostered institutional development, introduced new concepts of planning,
budgetting, competitive bidding etc., and laid the foundation for subsequent



Bank involvement in Oman. The Agriculture component however, did not fare
well (para 39) and only accomplished a modest set of modified objectives (para
41). No coordination with othez projects in agriculture could be achieved,
the Department of Agriculture was not strengtheneud as a result of the project
and viable infrastructure services were not established.
A valuable lesson can be learned from the failure of the agricultural
component. In cases where more than one agency is involved in a sector,
coordination between the agencies, frequent dialogue (if necessary at a high
level) and stringent supervision are essential in order to ensure that no
'.verlaps occur, and to offset sensitivities between the various agencies that
^ould hamper project implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OMAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT PROJECT - Loan 985-OM
I. Introduction
1.       Oman became a member of the Bank in December 1971.  There had
been no Bank Group operations prior to the identification of this project
in early 1972 after a visit by a Bank economic mission. For a long
period up to 1970, Oman for the most part isolated itself from the
mainstream economic and social developments of the outside world. The
economy was of a subsistence nature, entirely dependent on traditional
agriculture and fisheries. Although oil production and export had earned
substantial revenues since 1967, they were not used for economic and
social development. The situatitn changed when the present Sultan, His
Majesty Qaboos Bin Said, ascended to power in 1970. Efforts to start the
country on the road to modern development began in earnest soon
afterward, despite difficult constraints, e.g., security problems in the
south, an absence of modern administrative machinery, and an almost total
lack of skilled manpower. To overcome these constraints, government
agencies were set up, educated Omanis who had fled the country earlier
were persuaded to return and skilled expatriates were hired to fill
gaps. These various agencies, however, were seriously in need of skilled
staff, modern working procedures and overall direction particularly with
regard to development efforts. It was in this context that the
Government requested for technical assistance from the Bank.
2.       The Project was identified in early 1972 and appraised in August
1973. It had three components involving economic planning and
management, agriculture and transportation. This PCR is based on
information contained in the project files and interviews with Bank staff
and consultants associated with the project.
II. The Economic Planning and Management Component
3.       Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal.  The economic
planning and management component was designed to address issues arising
from the fact that in attempting to modernize quickly after the 1970
change of government, development efforts were put in motion before
essential administrative machinery had been fully established and without
the required expertise to carry them out. These efforts were therefore
'lrgely uncoordinated and without a common framework or coordinated
direction. Investment decisions were made without sufficient attention
to economic priorities and their financial implications. The result was



- 2 -
rapidly expanding development expenditures, many of which may have been
premature, generating inflationary pressures.
4.       The economic mission of March-April 1972 detailed the situation
and provided the basis fcr the design of the project. Besides the
Government, which was to become the borrower and the Bank, other agencies
involved during the early stage of project preparation were the UNDP, FAO
and the Overseas Development Agency (UK). After careful consideration,
however, the government requested that the Bank undertake the project
with a technical assistance loan.
5.       The project was prepared by the Bank with the participation of
the expatriate Economic Advisor to the Government. The economic planning
and manageme.at component was to have, in addition to the team leader, six
specialists, namely:
-    a planning specialist to help prepare a development program;
-    a project specialist experienced in project preparation and
analysis;
-    a technical specialist to help deal with consultants and
contractors, evaluate investment proposals and help carry out
the project;
-    a public administration specialist to advise on organization and
management, administrative techniques and statistical services;
-    an administrative assistant to handle administrative needs of
the team;
-    a translator to translate documents from English to Arabic and
vice versa.
6.       Since the economic situation in Oman was changing rapidly at the
time, it was recognized that a degree of flexibility should be maintained
with regard to the number and specialties to be provided. Only the team
leader therefore would be recruited initially, who would then advise on
composition of the team and the appropriate organization for ecoromic
planning and management. It was envisaged that the team would be
required for about three years and the project cost was computed on this
basis.
7.       Implementation and Performance.  The loan became effective on
December 11, 1974, about taree months behind the original schedule due to
delays in the confirmation of appointment of the Team Leader for the
ecL'nomic planning and management component; the Loan Agreement specified
that appointment of the three teams was a condition of effectiveness.
Major points that arose during implementation were (i) changes in team
composition; and (ii) delays in some appointments of team members. Both
of these were anticipated. The provision for flexibility was made so
that the team leader could ask for changes in team composition (he later
asked to include a lawyer and an accountant to assist in drawing up the



- 3 -
legal and accounting framework). Delays in appointment of team members
were also anticipated due to local conditions, particularly the shortage
of suitable housing. In addition, the Team Leader, mindful of the
sensitivLty of Omanis toward expatriates, chose to proceed slowly until
the team could earn their confidence. This proved to be an appropriate
thing to do.
8.       This component was highly successful despite initial
difficulties, particularly under the prevailing conditions where local
counterparts were almost nonexistent and, most importantly, where high
level officials previously had operated without subjecting themselves to
overall control and coordination. The first development plan (1976-80)
was the major vehicle to introduce an overall framework for development
efforts. It also introduced more rigorous scrutiny of projects and
restraints on contracting which were a marked change from existing
conditions whereby Ministers had a more-or-less free hand in negotiating
contracts. A tender board was set up for the purpose.
9.       The team helped draft laws defining functions of various
government bodies; these laws helped improve the government
administrative structure and the decision making process. It was also
involved in setting up operating principles and procedures for government
administration. Since the Team Leader was a member of the Financial
Council, the team, through him, was also involved in day-to-day economic
management in addition to its planning functions.
10.      The value of the planning team was recognized by the Government
and the Team Leader was retained as an Economic Advisor after the
component was completed in 1983.
11.      Institutional Development.  The project was successful in
developing institutions in the area of economic planning and management.
The Development and Financial Councils were institutionalized as the main
policy bodies in these areas. The Technical Secretariat of the
Development Council was created to carry out economic planning and
monitoring of progress in project implementation as well as to organize
statistical services which were almost nonexistent in the early 1970s.
The Team Leader served on both Councils and was the Secretary-General of
the Technical Secretariat. The team also took the lead in attempts to
institutionalize forward planning in other ministries and had a role to
play in creating the Tender Board which has been a major vehicle for
introducing competitive bidding procedures into Oman's contracting
practices.
12e      Conclusion.  Considering the situation in Oman in the early
1970s, this component was highly appropriate and very successful. The
flexibility luilt into the project design and the recruitment of a highly
effective Team Leader were pe. 'aps the most important factors in this
success. Although shortages of educated and skilled Omanis have made
Omanization of various functions of economic planning and management
somewhat slow, the introduction and institutionalization of new concepts
such as planning, budgetting, competitive bidding, etc. had an
influential impact in important areas.



- 4 -
III. Transport Comyonent
13.      Project Preparation, Objectives and Contents.  The transport
component of the Technical Assistant Project was structured to help
provide the Government with the capability to initiate highway studies,
monitor the work of consultants and contractors in the administration of
its road construction program and to improve the Roads Department's
ability to maintain the developing road network. For this purpose the
project provided for a team of eight specialists to provide technical
assistance over a three-year period. The specialists included:
(i) a planning and design engineer for highways;
(ii) a highway construction and maintenance engineer;
(iii) a mechanical engineer;
(iv) a mechanical supervisor vehicle workshop;
(v) a mechanical supervisor equipment workshop;
(vi) an accounting and storekeeping specialist;
(vii) a training specialist; and
(viii) a transportation advisor.
14.      Project Imnlementation and Cost.  The loan became effective on
December 11, 1974, some three months later than originally projected due
to delays in meeting the requirements of Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement which specified that, in the execution of the project, the
Borrower would appoint the three technical assistance teams on which the
project was based. This was a condition of loan effectiveness. However,
the transport component did not figure in the delay since the Terms of
Reference (TOR) for consultant services had been agreed to during
negotiations (March 1974) and these had been sent to six foreign
consulting firms with an invitation by Oman's Ministry of Comrmunications
and Public Services to submit proposals in June 1974. In July 1974, the
highest rated consultant was invited for negotiations on August 10,
1974. These negotiations were successfully completed in October and the
consultant was ready to begin mobilization in November. Actual
mobilization began in January 1975, building up on a planned schedule.
The full team was in the field by July 1975.
15.      Due to a critical staff shortage local counterparts were not
available to the extent considered desirable in terms of training and
liaison. Nevertheless, the consultants were able to establish a firm
foundation for cooperation with the Ministry and provide the basic
transport technical assistance to improve highway planning and the
organization of the Directorate of Roads, as well as ;'rectly review and
revise existing design standards and construction specifications, to



-5-
recomend draft legislation on vehicle axle loadings, weights and
dimensions and to prepare a basic five year maintenance program for the
Sultanate. Axle load recommendations were based on a special study
prepared by the consultant, and the five year maintenance program was
consistent with these recommendations. The consultant's highway
maintenance study provided the basis for the subsequent Bank Highway
Maintenance Project in Oman - Loan 1441-OM-1977.
16.      In October 1975, in the context of the consultant's role in
providing general technical assistance to the Ministry of Communications,
the consultant was requested to develop a feeder road program. By some
shifting of personnel in the general staffing framework, primarily the
integration of a second transport economist, this request was
accommodated.
17.      Overall', the consultant's progress and performance was good.
The consultant emphasized the advantages of standardization within the
planned procurement equipment program, developed a road inventory,
developed methodologies for the economic evaluation of feeder roads and
for the highway maintenance program, as well as a basic five-year routine
and periodic maintenance program and recommendations for changes within
the Directorate of Roads related to more effective implementation of a
planned maintenance program. The consultants also prepared a basic
report on vehicle operating costs in Oman and plans for the construction
of workshops, a training center and ancillary buildings.
18.      By the time the consultants completed their contract in February
1978, they had provided the basic inputs for appraisal of a Highways
Maintenance Project - Loan 1441-OM which was approved by the Board on
June 30, 1977. This project provided for the implementation and
continuation of the work of the transport component of Loan 985-OM.
19.      The consultants' contract for this component with the Government
of the Sultanate of Oman provided for a project ceiling not to exceed the
equivalent of US$1,210,976 in foreign currency and Omani Rials 50,000 in
local currency. This compares to an estimated cost for the transport
component, as set out in Annex IV of the President's Report (there was no
Appraisal Report prepared for this project) of US$1,168,000 in foreign
costs and OR 114,000 local costs, without contingencies. With the 107
quantity increases and 101 price escalation used in the estimate, the
totals would be US$1,401,600 foreign and OR 136,800 local. Actual total
payments to the consultants amounted to US$1,181,885.65 for foreign costs
and US$273,067.53, equivalent to OR 94,161.22.
20.      Projected disbursements were aggregatid for all project
components in the President's Report, showing a total of US$1.1 million
in FY75,* US$1.0 million in FY76 and US$0.65 million in FY77 to close out
the Bank's loan of US$2.75 million. Actual disbursement was far short of
these totals in the years shown but by February 28, 1978, at the end of
the transport consultant's contract, 94b (US$853,200) of total eligible
disbursements had been made on the transport component.
21.      Institutional and Operational Development. Overall the project
was successful as far as achievement of the objectives of the transport



component of the loan was concerned. It would have been unrealistic to
expect that all of the objectives would be fully implemented during the
relatively brief time span of this project. What was expected and
accomplished was the establishment of a framework for highway planning,
construction, supervision and maintenance within the Roads Directorate to
provide the basis for further Bank assistance in developing a modern
highway department capable of overseeing the rapidly expanding highway
network of Oman in the future. The subsequent Bank Highways Maintenance
Project built on this framework continued the technical assistance and
added a formal training component.
22.      Conclusion.  As the first involvement of the Bank in the
Transport Sector in Oman, this component was particularly appropriate and
successful. It not only was the basic foundation for subsequent Bank
involvement in the transport sector, but introduced a whole series of
concepts in terms of formal planning, investment and budgeting
development, etc. which, when reinforced with specifics in the subsequent
highway project, such as ICB, had far reaching implications not only for
transport development but in other areas as well. The major factor in
the success lay in the open-misded and progressive attitude of the
Ministry of Communications and the Roads Directorate who were determined
to insure that transport investment was rational and controlled and would
result in maximum benefits to the economy of Oman.
IV. Agricultural Component
23.      Prolect Identification, Preparation and Appraisal.  Prior to the
commencement of oil exports in 1967, Oman had a subsistence economy
entirely dependent on traditional agriculture and fisheries. In the
early seventies, when oil revenues increased rapidly, priority was given
to infrastructure and defense activities, and agriculture stagnated.
Moreover, Oman did not have the institutions or the trained manpower to
make a start on establishing a firm basis for agricultural development.
This component was designed to help Oman overcome its critical
administrative and institutional constraints, accelerate the
establishment of an adequate Government structure and guide the future
development of the sector. The Bank financed consultants for this
purpose.
24.      Although the Government had also Approached UNDP for technical
assistance, the expatriate Economic Advisor to the Sultanate was anxious
to involve the Bank in this field. At the end of 1972, the Bank held
tripartite discussions with UNDP and Oman representatives to try and
formulate ideas on areas of technical assistance where the Bank might
usefully assist Oman. Institution building was mentioned during this
period. Agriculture was still in a primitive state, requiring
considerable imports to sustain food requirements. In November of 1972,
the Bank wrote to the Economic Advisor to advise that the Bank might
consider financing technical assistance beyond the point where UNDP and
Government resources were available.
25.      Bank staff maintained close contact with UNDP New York, who
informed the Bank of an FAO mission to Oman in November to identify



- 7 -
projects in agriculture, and of UNDP assistance to Oman in formulating a
development plan due to be issued in July 1973. UNDP suggested waiting
for the plan to be issued before finalizing cooperation between the Bank
and UNDP.
26.      FAO issued a reporS of the November mission in May 1973 and
offered the services of one of the mission members for the subsequent
Bank appraisal mission. Since the Bank decided to maintain flexibility
in the project to accommodate future changes, no detailed appraisal was
required.
27.      The Decision Memorandum did recognize that coordination with
UNDP was important in order to avoid overlaps, but stated that the roles
of the Bank and UNDP would complement each other and not overlap.
However, during the 1973 Annual Meeting discussions between the Dank and
Oman representatives, the possibility of overlap betwee,n UNDP and Bank
T.A. projects in agriculture was such an important issue that it was
suggested the Bank be responsible for execution of the UNDP projects. At
this point, FAO and UNDP had no objections to the Bank executing the
projectse  Unfortunately, this possibility,  ihich would have avoided
considerable problems, was only discussed once more in correspondence and
was not mentioned again.
28.      Up to the time of negotiations, the Bank received two opposing
sets of information. The Economic Advisor stressed to the Bank that UNDP
funds were not sufficient to cover the proposed agriculture component and
that there would be no overlap in the work proposed. The Bank accepted
this argument subject to UNDP confirmation and cooperation to ensure no
overlap. In the meanwhile, UNDP proceeded with their projects. By the
time of negotiations, assurances had been received from UNDP and FAO that
there would be no overlap provided the Bank project only cover certain
fields, i.e., organization, perennial crops, range management and
agricultural credit.
29.      The agriculture component of the technical assistance project
was designed to:
(i) service, coordinate and provide overall direction of consultant
contracts, the fisheries and experimental farm projeCts and
other international and bilateral investments;
(ii)  strengthen the capacity of the Department of Agriculture and
Fisheries to plan and direct national projects and programs;
(iii) establish a viable organization to administer infrastructure
services in the agricultural and fisheries sectors; and
(iv)  establish and administer a national water policy.
30.      Side Letters specified Terms of Reference for a team leader to
be advisor to the Ministry of Development and provides for research and
extension, animal health, coordination and administration and credit
specialists to be attached to the Department of Agriculture and



Fisheries. The research and extension specialist was to be experienced
in dates and citrus culture.
31.      Implementation.  In June 1974, a contract was signed between the
Oman Government and a consulting firm to supply the experts required.
Three specialist consultants (the team leader, animal and pasture
specialist, and research and extension advisor) arrived in
November-December 1974. Their arrival coincided with the formation of
the new Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Petroleum and Minerals. The
consultants became responsiole to this Ministry.
32.      By April 1975, only four to five months after the arrival of the
ctmnsultants there were signals that all was not well. In a letter to the
Bank, the Economic Advisor expressed concern over the negative attitude
displayed towards the project by the new Minister. This was confirmed by
a Bank mission which reported that the Minister was concerned with the
consultants' work overlapping with that of the FAO advisors. The first
supervision by a Bank Projects' mission occurred in June 1975.
Surprisingly, no serious project problems were reported. By November
1976, when the Programs Director returned from his mission to Oman, he
reported the consultants' role had been better defined and it appeared
the crisis reported in the first half of the year had passed.
33.      However, a second Projects' mission in January 1976 reported
that the consultants team was not fulfilling its objectives due mainly to
pressure by FAO staff whose positions were threatened by overlapping
responsibilities. The mission recommended that the focus of consultants'
work be changed to concentrate on the development of irrigatioi on three
sites and thus avoid problems of overlap. In a meeting in the Bank
during July 1976, the Omani Director of Agriculture supported a
recommendatiov to develop fam. production and together with IRI confirmed
that drilling equipment and a consultant were needed to develop farm
water supply.
34.      A four-man mission visited Oman in August 1976 to assist in
selecting 100-ha farm sites for aevelopment.  The mission concluded that
farms would need to be larger for the purpose of economy of scale and
more detailed investigation for water would be required. The consultant
team would be disbanded and replaced by a hydrogeologist and an
agriculturalist. The hydrogeologist would carry out a drilling
investigation and the agriculturalist would assist Government in planning
further agricultural projects. Loan proceeds were reallocated and a
.nange in the project description was carried out to allow for drilling
and purchase of equipment. At this stage, FAO indicated to the
Government that further FAO staff would be made available for water
investigations and the hydrogeologist was not necessary.
35.      A Bank consultant drew up bidding documents for drilling
operations. The tender was issued on May 15, 1977, and in August 1977 a
contract for drilling was let to a local firm. In October, the contract
was modified to increase the number of wells and deepen them. By the end



of the year, the modified  .oject was being implemented by the
consultants and since cattle had arrived for the Sohar farm, they had a
more optimistic view of the project.
36,      In April 1978, Government indicated that it would enter into a
joint venture with a private comDany to develop the Sohar farm. At this
time, the drilling investigations had been complet'9d and were
encouraging. However, the future of the consultants was in doubt and the
Government was asked to clarify this aspect. By July 1978, it was clear
that the Government did not wish to continue with the consultants nor use
the surplus funds. The consultants closed down their operations in Oman
during July and issued a final report in October 1978.
37.      A Bank Projects' mission in October 1978 reported that
Government was interested in using the balance of the loan funds for an
agriculture sector survey to support the entry of the Oman Development
Bank into large scale credit operations for farmers. However, the
Development Council was already conducting a sector survey and Government
subsidies to farmers virtually eliminated the need for credit.
Therefore, in June 1979, surplus funds were reallocated for use in the
other components of the project and the agricultural component was
terminated.
38.      Operating Performance.  None of the original objectives of the
component were fulfilled. Instead, its achievements were (i) to provide
technical information to improve agricultural production as a result of
observations and experiments; and (ii) to expand and develop an irrigated
farm to the point where is d taken over by a joint venture. No
coordination with other projects in agriculture could be achieved; a
viable organization to administer infrastructure services was not
established and the project failed to establish and administer a national
water plan.
39.      Several reasons for the failure to achieve these objectives
emerge from correspondence and discussions with project participants.
(i) The strong commitment by the Economic Advisor to the Sultan, who
was forceful in persuading the Bank that the agricultural
component was needed. He was against proposals by several Bank
staff to drop the component in view of UNDP projects so as to
avoid overlapping responsibilities.
(ii) The lack of commitment by Omani officials. In the beginning,
the project was the responsibility of the Ministry of
Development Planning, who had some interest in it. Later it was
transferred to the newly created Ministry of Agriculture where
interest in Bank assistance was lukewarm.
(iii) The strong commitment by FAO/UNDP to their project which was
reflected in a lack of cooperation and compromise with the Bank
project (at least at the field level).
(iv) Failure by the Bank to recognize and react to the adverse
signals which appeared before and after loan signing.



- 10 -
40.      The performance of the consultants was never criticized during
supervision. Although it seemed that most of the consultants were
admirable technicians, they were not skilled development planners.
However, the consultants did make recommendations on research programs in
pasture and livestock production and set out a five-year research plan in
this field. The consultants themselves carried out experiments in
vegetable growing and pasture production, but they did not have a
specialist in date and citrus production which was required under a Side
Letter and was recommended by UNDP as an area where the Bank project
would not overlap with that of UNDP. Date and lime exports represented
two-thirds of non-oil exports, but were threatened by serious technical
problems which needed investigation. No reason for not appointing
consultants in these areas could be ascertained at the time of this
completion report. After the project was modified in early 1976, the
drilling program and ground water investigations carried out under the
supervision of the consultants were useful,¢' and the consultants
played a major role in successfully developing the Sohar farm.
41.      In summary, the original objectives were not achieved, but the
modified objectives, i.e., to assist Government to review and implement
ongoing agricultural projects and to determine if adequate water existed
on the Batinah coast for limited farm development, were achieved. The
only hope of achieving the original objectives would have been under
circumstances where either the Bank had executing responsibility for the
UINDP projec., or where UNDP had modified its project to avoid putting FAO
staff in a position of appearing to be threatened.  Executing
responsibility by the Bank appeared likely prior to negotiations but was
not mentioned thereafter.
42.      Financial Performance.  About US$750,000 were spent for the
agriculture component, including US$160,000 for the drilling contract.
Consideration of a rate of return on this investment was not thought
applicable at appraisal. The benefits of technical assistance could not
be quantified unless information was available on those findings of the
consultants which have been acted upon for productive purposes. This
information is not available and the cost of determining the benefits
would not be warranted.
43.      Bank Performance.  At the time of appraisal the project was
justified. Oman virtually had no organizational or planning facilities
for agriculture and needed to improve the non-oil sectors, such as
agriculture, to broaden the country's economic base.
The consultants prepared pumping and well design guidelines for the
Batinah coast, as well as monitoring recommendations.



- 11 -
44.      However, by the end of 1973, circumstances were changing
rapidly. Oil revenues were increasing and there was a certain
disillusionment with foreign firms, many of which were not performing as
expected. There was also some suggestion that the Bank was thought of as
another foreign firm with a coimercial interest in Oman. Under these
conditions and s.nce UNDP proposals appeared attractive, without
commercial interest and practically without cost to the country, the
Government continued to encourage UNDP projects in technical assistance
at the same time as it was dealing witb the Bank.
45.      The Bank was aware of this, corresponded with and held meetings
with UNDP representatives between appraisal and negotiations and tried to
ensure no overlapping of responsibilities in the technical assistance
projects. If it were not for the Economic Advisor's persuasiveness,
perhaps the Bank would have dropped the component at this stage.
However, the Bank did recognize that circumstances could change and
deliberately left the project description broad in order to retain
flexibility. In contrast, Side Letters reflected some rigidity by
detailing consultants requirements and their Terms of Reference. Perhaps
appointment of a small preliminary group of consultants initially to
study conditions and specify Terms of Reference according to the
prevailing circumstances would have been more successful.
46.      In late 1975, the Bank considered dropping the component, but
decided to continue on the grounds that contact between Oman and the Bank
would be lost in this sector if it was cancelled. As it happens, contact
in agriculture was virtually lost some three and a half years later in
any case, and the loan has had only a minor effect on Omani agriculture
in the areas of institution building, research and production.
October 1986



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 985-M
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Appraisal
Fiscal                                 Estimated                Actual
Year                                  Cumulative             Cumulative
1975                                      1.1                    0.0
1976                                      2.1                    0.81
1977                                      ?.65                   1.81
1978                                      2.75                   1.90
1979                                                             2.08
1980                                                             2. 20
1981                                                             2.35
1982                                                             2.40
1983                                                             2.47
1984                                                             2.63
Cancelled (February 29, 1984)                                    0.12



NOTES
t



