Documet or
The World Bank
-OR OMCIL US ONLY
LA). 235g-4qA.
lipt Ni. P-3643-?1N
RWEgP    AIND R e
OF TEE
PRESID:cT OF TE7
L    = FRSPI ATICIBAN  OR RM NW TT  AND DEVELOPm
TO TME
EXECUTIVE DIRECXORS
ON a
PROPOE LOA
IN AN AMOUT E= VALEE  TO us$s.0 maLLIO
TO
T8R REPBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
miENI:C AL SSTS  PROJECT
October 19, 1983
Thh dicummt   a rutiecgd &&Bud=i may wbe _d by rhclout Omly Inhs ps_uc of
thir slAls dink& lb intI  maft inlam be Vimd -        Wed         J     lc __



CURRENCY EQUIVALEZTS
Currency Unit   -   Balboa (sf.)
US$1  -   11.1
Note: The issue of Balboas Is restricted to coins. The US Dollar (USS)
is accepted as currency.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASUIRES
Metric System
GOSSARY OF ABIREVrTONS
EDA    -   Nco de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Agriwcultural Developmnt Bank)
EHN     -   Banco Hipotecario Nacional
(National Mortgage Bank)
CALV   --  Corporacion Azucarera La Victoria
(La Victoria Sugar Corporation
CPF     -   Compensatory Finance Facility
COFINA  -   Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
C_S     -   Caja de Seguro Social
(Social Security Agency)
IDB    -   Inter-American Development Bank
INA     -   Instituto d& Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Institute of Agricultural Marketing)
MICI   -  Ninisterio de Comercio e Industrias
(Ministry of Cotuerce and Industry)
MIDA    -  Ninisterio de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development)
MIPPE   -  Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
MmVI   -  Ninisterio de Vivienda
(Ministry of Housing)
OPE     -   UNDP's Office of Projects Execution
PAHO    -   Pan American Health Organization
UNDP    -   United Nations Levelopment Programme
USAID   -  U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PANMA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Panama
Amount:          US$5.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:           15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would support the Structural Adjustment
Loan to Panama, which is being submitted simultaneously. It
aims at assisting the Government in Implementing its
structural adjustment program by providing studies, expert
advice and implementation assistance in key areas of the
economy. Specifically, the proposed project would finance
about 300 man-months of consultant services to study:
(a) trade and pricing policies in the agricultural sector
and strengthening of its institutions;
(b) effective protection in the industrial sector;
(c)  financial, -ctuarial, administrative and managerial
issues in the Social Security Agency;
(d) the Health System;
(e) transport infrastructure in the Panama City-Colon
corridor; and
(f) other currently unidentified studies needed to carry
out the structural adjustment program.
Risk:            The complexity of the project requires efficieit coordina-
tion both at the technical and administrative levels.
Assisted by a pannel of local anu foreign economists, the
Director of Economic and Social Planning in the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE) would be in charge of
technical coordination (Project Coordinator). A Project
Manager would be in charge of administrative and logistical
coordination, including the appointment of counterpart staff
in the technical agencies to work with the consultants.
Arrangements are also being finalized with UNTP/IOPE to act
as contracting agent for the Government. In vi±- of the
uncertain political background, there is a risk that the
agreed recomm-endations of the studies would not be
implemented. However, there is a widespread recognition
that the present institutional framework, particularly in
the areas covered by the proposed studies, needs to be
changed to meet the challenges of a more difficult economic
environment. In view of this and of the Governmeat's strong
This document has a esticted disutibution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance off
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World PRank authorization.



- ii -
Risk (cont'd)
desire to carry out the studies, the risk is considered
acceptable. In order to ensure continuity and commitment,
staff of individual agencies would be fully involved in the
consultants work. Progress of the studies would be closely
monitored.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign    Totall/
----US$ Thousand - - - -
Agricultural trade and pricing
policies study                         31          62           93
Agricultural institutions
Phase 1                               180         558         738
Phase 2                                166        800         966
Effective protection in the
industrial sector                       61        100          161
Finances of Social Security
Agency (CSS)                           124        352          476
Financial, Administrative and
Managerial studies and training
to CSS                                460         724       1,184
Health system study                     134        246          380
Trans-istbmian transport study          92         162         254
Training study tours                     40        100          140
Interview travel for experts            -           25          25
Project Management                      631        400        1,031
Equipment                               50         250         300
Further technical assistance
related to structural adjustment
program                               222         390         612
Subtotal                              2191        4169        6360
Price Contingencies                     105        293         398
Total                           2,296       4,462       6,758
Front-end fee                      -           13          13
Total Project Costs             2,296       4,475       6,771
Financing Plan: (US$ million)
Bank                                     0.5        4.5          5.0
Government                               1.8        -            1.8
Total                              2.3         4.5         6.8
1/  The project would be exempted from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements: (US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year               1984      1985     1986
Annual                     1.5      2.6       0.9
Cumulative                 1.5      4.1       5.0
Rate of Return:    n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EOUIVALENT TO US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$5.0 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Technical Assistance project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
i2.       An Economic Memorandum  entitled  Panama: Special Economic Report
on Metropolitan Unemployment- (3833-PAN) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 7, 1982.  Since then, there has been a sustained dialogue
e between the Government and the Bank leading to the development of a policy
framework to confront the challenges of a more difficult international
economic environment. After a series of identification missions, an
appraisal mission for the proposed loan visited Panama in June, 1983.
Country data are given in Annex I.
A.  Main Features of the Panamanian Economy
3.        Panama's geographic location has trad'tionally determined its
economic development. Situated strategically on a narrow isthmus, joining
North and South America, midway between Europe and Asia. Panama functioned as
an important center for Spanish colonial trade for more than two centuries.
This entrepot role was enhanced by two major investments in the transport
infrastructure. The first was the building of the trans-isthmian railway in
the 1850's. The second, of much greater significance, was the construction
of the Panama Canal in the early years of this century. The Canal, and the
employment and income it generated, were an important source of economic
growth until the early .970's.
4.        Panama has capitalized on its geographic location and international
transport facilities to build an important export-oriented service sector.
The main areas of recent expansion have been in banking, tourism and inter-
national commerce. During the 1970's, the banking sector grew by 11 percent
per year in response to legislative incentives. By 1982, there were about
120 banks physically established in Panama, among them subsidiaries of lead-
ing financial institutions; they employ over 7,000 people. Tourism has grown
I/ Parts I and II are the same as those appearing in the
President's Report for the Panama Structural Acjustment Loan,
dated October 19, 1983.



-2-
by 10.6 percent per year since 1970. The activities of the Colon Free
Zone-warehousing, display and transshipment of merchandise mainly towards
the markets of Latin America-expanded by an annual 14 percent. By 1982,
these and other services accounted for 70 percent GDP.
5.        The growth of export-oriented services has been facilitated not
only by Panama's geographic location and transport infrastructure, but also
by its financial characteristics which are unique to the Region. There is no
Central Bank, the U.S. dollar circulates inside the country and there is no
restriction on the movement of capital. Because of this dollar standard,
there is no foreign exchange constraint in the conventional sense, and the
country's credit-worthiness is directly linked to Government finances.  It is
easily monitored through such indicators as the size of the public deficit in
relation to GDP and the Government's ability to meet all debt obligations as
they come due.  Moreover, the extent to which financial markets and interest
rates can be manipulated by Government intervention is seriously limited.
6.        The historical importance of the Canal has concentrated economic
activity in the two terminal cities, Panama City and Colon. Today, the
metropolitan area formed by these two cities and the corridor between them,
adjacent to the Canal, contains more than half the nation's population and
produces over 70 percent of total value added. Panama's essentially urban
nature contributes to its relatively high standard of living within the
Region. Per capita income in 1981 was US$1,910 coupared with an average of
US$930 for Central America and US$1,700 for Latin America and the Caribbean
as a whole.
B. Political Background
7.        A major watershed in Panama's modern history occurred in October
1968, when the National Guard overthrew the Government of President Arnulfo
Arias and soon thereafter established a new administration under the de facto
control of General Omar Torrijos. The Torrijos Government had three major
goals: to increase national economic sovereignty, particularly over the
Panama Canal; expand the Panamanian political and social process to the rural
poor and urban workers; and deepen the country's development process,
stimulating growth through increased and diversified exports and investment
in human resources. The high point of the regime was reached in 1979 with
the signing of a Canal Treaty with the United States. Following this, the
Government reduced the military control of the country and began a gradual
restoration of democratic institutions. In the economic field, more emphasis
was placed on the role of the private sector which partially restored
confidence following a period of uncertainty associated with the Canal Treaty
negotiations.
8.        After the accidental death of General Torrijos in July, 1981,
Panamanian politics began a turbulent period as new leadership developed.
The prior fiscal austerity was relaxed and several public sector agencies
exceeded their budgets by wide margins. There was considerable uncertainty
as to the direction of policy, particularly in the economic field.  In August
1982, President Aristides Royo resigned and was replaced by Vice-Presiden.
Ricardo de la Espriella. A new Constitution, laying the foundations for
presidential and congressional elections, was approved by popular referendum



- 3 -
in May, 1983. Also, political parties have been legalized and campaigning
for the presidential elections, scheduled for mid-1984, has now begun.
9.       Despite this uncertain political atmosphere, the Government has
shown its determination to confront a deteriorating economic situation and
carry through a number of necessary measures. Not only have strong
budgetting control and discipline been restored, in accordance with a new IMF
Standby Arrangement (para. 22), but the Government has also embarked on a
program of fundamental structural reforms which, although politically
unpopular in the short-term, are vital for medium-term economic recovery.
There is widespread consensus concerning the difficult economic outlook and
the measures necessary to confront its challenges.
C. Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes
10.       The 1960's saw rapid economic expansion in Panama, with GDP growth
averaging 8 percent per year (or 5 percent per capita). Much of the impetus
came from buoyant Canal-related activities, and the effects of the
Remon-Eisenhower treaties which transferred some economic activities from the
Canal Zone to Panama.  Real agricultural output increased by nearly 5.3
percent per year, based largely on expansion of grass-fed beef production and
on increased output of bananas following important disease eradication
measures. These were major factors contributing to a substantial growth of
exports. Industrial growth was also strong, with a 10.9 percent annual
average increase in real value added, most of it directed towards the
domestic market. Almost as impressive was the growth of the construction and
services sectors at over 8 percent per year. The principal source of
investment finance and entrepreneurial talent was the private sector.
Private domestic savings averaged about 15 percent of GDP, while private
investment increased at a real 12.5 percent between 1960 and 1970, rising
from 12 percent to 18 percent of GDP. ToLal employment grew at 3.5 percent
per year, well in excess of the 2.5 percent annual increase in population.
Nearly all the expansion in employment opportunities was provided by the -
private sector, and occurred in the urban areas; in the agricultural sector,
employment expanded at only 0.7 percent per year.
11.       The benefits of this rapid development were, however, concentrated
in relatively few hands. Real wages were held down; the nominal minimum
salary remained constant between 1960 and 1968.  Acute poverty persisted,
mostly in the countryside. Moreover, the social and economic infrastructure,
particularly in rural areas, was inadequate to ensure continued economic and
social improvement outside the metropolitan corridor.
12.       Accordingly, the development strategy initiated by the Torrijos
Government in 1968 aimed at major social reforms while attempting to sustain
growth through increasing and diversifying exports. Greater national
integration was achieved by increasing and improving the communications and
transport linkages among the regions of the country; social improvements were
made by supporting human resources development, agrarian reform and the
provision of basic needs, and by strengthening the country's institutional
framework. The strategy was executed through expanded and improved social



services (particularly in health and education), through the development of
infrastructure by constituting public utilities (electricity, telephones,
water) into individual state entities, and by an ambitious public investment
program. Private investment was encouraged, especially in the construction
and service sectors linked to the international transportation systems.
Panama's status as an entrepot center was enhanced by legislation of 1970
which led to the establishment of a major international banking center. It
was given further impetus by public sector investments in the international
airport, tourism infrastructure, rapid expansion of the international free
zone, an international re-insurance center, the growth of commerce, and other
export services. The system of hydro-electric generation, roads,
educational, water and health facilities which was built up throughout the
country provided services to wide sections of the population which had not
previously enjoyed them.
13.       Although this strategy was initially successful in combining rapid
growth with social reform, the economy was adversely affected by both
external and domestic developments in the mid-1970s. Real growth fell from
7.3 percent per year between 1968 and 1973 to 4.6 percent between 1973 and
1982. The increase in world oil prices and inflation brought about
international economic uncertainty, while Canal activities slowed after the
peak Vietnam war traffic decreased. Domestic uncertainty stemmed mainly from
the intensive Canal Treaty negotiations, though confidence was also
undermined by increased regulation of the economy through a highly
restrictive Labor Code, and price and rental controls. Consequently, private
investient declined in absolute terms between 1973 and 1977. The public
sector compensated for this, not only through investments in large
infrastructure projects, but also by the creation or acquisition of a number
of directly productive enterprises. State subsidies and high support prices
absorbed an increasing proportion of the current budget, while public sector
employment accounted for over 80 percent of the new jobs created. Despite
additional revenue measures, this expansion resulted in a sharp increase in
the public sector deficit, and consequently in the Government's
dollar-denominated debt which had reached nearly B0 percent of GDP by the
late 1970s.
14.       The atmosphere of political uncertainty diminished considerably
after agreement was reached on the Canal Treaty terms in 1977, and this
enabled the Government to modify economic policy. The pub'lic sector entered
into a period of retrenchment as several large capital projects were
completed, no further state enterprises were created, and the Government
began a sustained effort to reduce the public deficit through increased taxes
and tighter controls on expenditures. By 1981 the deficit had fallen to
about 5 percent of GDP from nearly 12 percent in 1979, so that Panama fully
complied with the targets established under IMF Standby Arrangements. To
encourage private investment, new export, investment and employment
incentives were introduced. Together with the agreement and subsequent
ratification of the Canal Treaties, these led to some restoration of private
sector confidence. However, private investment did not recover to the levels
of the 1960's and early 1970's. Between 1978 and 1982 it was still less in
real terms, and as a percentage of GDP, than between 1968 and 1973.
Furthermore, although the service and construction sectors once again
flourished, agriculture and industry continued to be adversely affected by
the policy and institutional environment. Real per capita agricultural
output was less in 1982 than in 1977, while industrial value added declined
from 11.5 percent of GDP to 9.8 percent.



15.       In 1982, Panama began to feel the impact of the world recession in
general, and of the deepening economic and financial crisis in Latin America
in particular. Growth in the financial sector was less than half that of
preceding years, while value added in tourism and in the Colon Free Zone
declined sharply. Private investment fell in real terms following the
completion of a publicly and privately financed trans-isthmian oil pipeline
project. Partly to compensate for this, and partly because of increased
political pressures (para.8), controls on public expenditure were loosened.
Several entities exceeded their capital budgets by wide margins, particularly
the public electricity company, IRHE, and the Social Security Agency. Public
revenues were adversely affected by the economic slowdown, and by mid-1982 it
had become clear that Panama's fiscal targets would be grossly exceeded. The
consolidated public sector deficit for the year as a whole was 11 percent of
GDP, almost double the amount stipulated in the Government's Standby
Arrangement with the IMF.  Public investment was over 12 percent of GDP as
against a target of 10 percent. Net foreign borrowing by the public sector
amounted to over $500 million, and the oustanding public medium-term debt
reached $3.1 billion at the end of 1982, equivalent to 73 percent of GDP.
Interest on the debt absorbed over 30 percent of total Government
revenues.2/
16.       The recession deepened in late 1982, and in 1983 real GDP is
expected to stagnate. The necessary fiscal adjustment (paras. 21-22) is
inevitably having a contractionary effect on economic activity-especially
the construction sector--while access to foreign bank credit is now severely
limited. Through 1984, there will likely be little if any growth in the
traditionally buoyant sectors of the economy. The banking sector has reached
an advanced stage of maturity, while the Colon Free Zone and tourism are
dependent upon financial and economic recovery in the rest of Latin America.
This is unlikely to materialize before 1985. Reduced Government spending
will, in the absence of comper.sating investment by the private sector, lead
to further deterioration in the employment situation; unemployment is already
estimated at about 20 percent of the available labor force in the urban
metropolitan area.
D. The Government's Development Strategy
17.       In the face of these difficulties, the Government has formulated a
new medium-term development strategy. This has already been translated into
a number of important actions, many of them under consideration for some
time. it recognizes that new growth and employment opportunities can no
longer be sought throi h further public sector expansion. Indeed, the scope
of the public sector is to be reduced and the remainder made more efficient.
This is consistent not only with the overall thrust of the Government's
strategy but also with financial realities; public sector indebtedness is
high and the era of easily available commercial credit has ended.
18.       Given the small size of the domestic market and less buoyant
prospects for services, opportunities for the private sector must be sought
2/ Defined as the current revenues of Central Government and autonomous
apencies plus the current surplus of the public sector enterprises.



-6-
in Panama's external markets through the accelerated production of goods for
export. This would be fully consistent with Panama's comparative advantages
and its unique economic characteristics. Principal among these are its
geographic location, highly developed international transport and
communications facilities, sophisticated commercial sector, open financial
system and its bilingual and relatively well-trained labor force. These
assets could be a springboard for access to foreign markets provided
industrial and agricultural goods are produced at competitive cost.
19.       Given the country's relatively high wage structure, efficiency in
agriculture and industry must be increased to improve competitiveness and
reduce upward pressures on wage rates. In many countries increased wage
competitiveness can be achieved through an adjustment in the exchange rate.
Panama's monetary structure rules this out, and it is therefore necessary to
address the causes of inefficiency both directly and individually in each
sector of the economy. Since the financially weakened public sector can no
longer expand in relative terms, the private sector is to be the main source
of investment finance and entrepreneurial talent. Public sector intervention
is to be restricted to the provision of the necessary social and economic
infrastructure, much of which is already in place. In order to release
resources for growth-oriented activities, public sector expenditures are
being rationalized. This invclves reductions in subsidies and the sale,
closure or restructuring of loss-making public enterprises. State
intervention in product and factor markets is t>o diminish. Price controls
are to be greatly reduced and labor market rigidlties addressed in order to
bolster private sector confidence. Industrial incentives are to be directed
more towards exports and less towards import substitution. Consequently, the
scope and depth of effective protection is to be substantially reduced.
Similarly, the bias inherent in the current incentive structure in favor of
capital-intensive production techniques is to be reversed. So as to increase
efficiency and productivity in the agricultural sector, policies are to be
re-oriented towards higher production at competitive prices and less towards
the redistribution of income.
20.       This process of structural adjustment will take some years to
complete. Moreover, it can only be fully successful if the economies of the
OECD and Latin America recover in the mid-1980's together with world trade
and services. If this occurs, the Government visualizes Panama as having a
more open, export-oriented economy in which the efficiency of the productive
sectors would be on a par with that already achieved by Panama's
international services. A more fully employed urban workforce would be
dedicated to a broader variety of industrial and service tasks undertaken at
competitive world costs. Clearly the policy is not without risk, but
Panama's private sector responded well to market signals in the 1960's.
Furthermore, the strategy is based on the Government's recognition that
re-orientation towards the export of goods provides the best, if not the
only, alternative to continued economic stagnation and increasing
unemployment.
E. Short Term Stabilization Measures
21.       To provide the necessary context of financial stability for its new
development strategy, the Government is now carrying out a major fiscal
adjustment to reduce the public sector deficit to no more than US$270 million



- 7 -
in 1983, or about 6 percent of GDP. Additional revenue is being raised
through an increase in the minimum tariff and crude petroleum import taxes.
Substantial cutbacks are planned in current and capital expenditures (paras
30-37). Except for school teachers and low-paid workers, who were given
public assurances of wage increases in mid-1982, no increase in wages is
allowed in the 1983 Budget. External commercial borrowing by state entities
is now controlled by the Ministry of Planning which has created the new post
of Director of Public Credit for this purpose.
22.       These measures led to successfully concluded negotiations with the
IMF for a two year Standby Arrangement of SDR 150 million (about US$173
million) of which one third will be available in 1983 and the rest in 1984.
The IMF Board approved the Standby in late June, 1983. In addition, Panama
will receive some $60 million in 1983 from the Compensatory Financing
Facility. The main conditions attached to the Standby, which will be
monitored every three months, are a public sector deficit of no more than 6
percent of GDP in 1983 and 5.5 percent in 1984, and no net increase in
commercial foreign debt in 1983 or 1984 by the public sector. The current
account saving and gross borrowing requirements implied by the program agreed
with the Fund are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: SUMMARY PUBLIC FINANCES
(USe Million)
1979    1980    1981   1982             1983
s of
(Actual)   (Projected)    GDP
Public Sector Savings    -42.4   126.7   172.8   60.6            120       2.7
Capital Expenditure       303.6   299.8   390.1  524.6           390       8.7
Overall Deficit           346.0   173.1   217.3  464.0           270       6.0
Amortization              191.3   213.8   215.2  388.2           280 a/    6.2
Gross Borrowing
Requirement              537.3   386.9   432.5  852.2           550      12.2
a/ Includes short term debt amortization.
23.       While this program will reduce the deficit in the  -art term, it is
important to point out that Panama already has a relatively highly taxed
economy: the tax burden is about 20 percent of GNP. Consequently, the
structural requirement for a lower public sector deficit must primarily be
met through a rationalization of expenditures rather than further taxes.
This would diminish the public debt burden and the Government's requirement
for increasingly scarce commercial bank funds. In September, 1983, Panama
successfully concluded negotiations for a US$278 million commercial bank loan
to cover amortization requirements through December, 1984. However, although
Panama's credit standing within the Region remains relatively high,
negotiations were prolonged and difficult. The reluctance of commercial
banks to increase, and even to maintain, their public sector exposure will
likely persist in the medium-term. The Government's economic policies
reflect this reality.



- 8 -
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
24.       The policy measures designed to give practical shape to the
Government's medium term development strategy may be divided into three main
areas: first, to reduce the scope and improve the efficiency of the public
sector; second, to reorient the incentive structure in the urban, industrial
sector towards exports and employment generation; and, third, to increase
productivity and output in the agricultural sector. Changes in the latter
two areas are designed to permit and encourage accelerated manufactured and
agricultural exports. In the services and energy sectors, there is little
need for structural reforms. The former already benefits from a favorable
legislative regime and substantial private sector participation. In the
energy sector, as indicated in a recent Bank sector review, pricing policy is
generally adequate (reguiar grade gasoline retails at US$2.10 per gallon)
while recent measures have been taken to enable the private petroleum
refinery to operate at lower unit cost. IRUE, the public power company, is
well run and makes the legal 8.75 percent return on its assets.   Moreover,
the Bank has had a direct and beneficial influence on the energy!power sector
through project lending and related institution building.
25.       The Government has already taken a considerable number of important
actions in each of the three areas emphasized in its program. The following
sections review the progress achieved and describe further actions which the
structural adjustment loan supports.
B. Public Sector Efficiency
Overview
26.       The financial constraints that the public sector is likely to face
in the years immediately ahead make it of vital importance that policies be
aimed at fostering greater efficiency in the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Government's structural adjuAstment program is concentrating
reforms in those areas of public sector activity which are significant and
continuous sources of fiscal drain; which result in the misallocation of
resources through, for example, inappropriate pricing policies; and which
suffer from inadequate institutional or budgetary control. The overall aims
of the reforms are to significantly increase public sector savings both
absolutely and in relation to GDP in order to release resources for the
private sector; to reduce the s^ope of the public sector's investment
activities to the provision of the necessary infrastructure for private
sector activities; and to improve the maturity structure, and hence reduce
the servicing burden, of the public external debt.
27.       The major components of the Government's action program for
improved public sector efficiency include: (i) a major review of public
sector enterprises; (ii) a coherent investment program for the period
1983-1985 consistent with the priorities of the new development strategy;
(iii) reform of public sector housing policy; (iv) reform of the public
health and social security systems; (v) more effective management of
state-owned assets especially those located in the former Canal Zone, where



control has recently reverted to Panama; (vi) reform of the Customs
Administration; and (vii) improved public sector debt management.
Public Sector Enterprises
28.       There are some 45 public sector enterprises and decentralized
agencies operatinz in Panama. Their consolidated accounts showed a current
surplus of about US$8 million in 1982. However, this concealed large
discrepancies; some entities earned substantial surpluses, while others
required large subsidies. Approximately US$65 million (1.5 percent of GDP)
was spent in 1982 on current subsidies and transfers excluding those to
higher education establiskments. Of this, the losses of the Victoria Sugar
Corporation accounted for US$37 million (57 percent), while losses of other
nonfinancial public sector enterprises amounted to about USS13 million (20
p-rcent). The remaining subsidies and transfers were principally to cover
losses on the lending operations of financial entities in aericulture,
housing and development finance. The Government has declared its intention
to eliminate these subsidies; clearly this will take time, and the program is
to be completed over five years. As a first step, in February 1983, a
comprehensive financial review of all entities was carried out, concentrating
on the most heavily subsidized. Since then, several bave been shut down or
sold and others restructured. These reforms will reduce outlays on subsidies
and transfers by about 40 percent in 1983 to US$39 million, and will
eventually permit lower public sector product prices. A further reduction is
expected in 1984. Some of the entities concerned, including the sugar
corporation, operate in the agricultural sector, and are discussed in
paragraphs 76-78. Regarding the others, the principal reforms are the
following:
- In January, 1983, a major, unprofitable hotel was sold to a group
of Japanese interests. The Government, which had guaranteed the loan to the
hotel, inherited it when the hotel encountered financial difficulties. The
sale price was USS34 million; its cost to the Government had been $54
million. Plans are well advanced for the sale of another money-losing hotel
(La Contadora Panama) for which specific offers are currently being
considered.
- On March 14, 1983, the Government announced a timetable for endinz
the contractual arrangement by which the state-owned cement compauy, Cemento
Bayano, cross-subsidizes the only private cement company operating in Panama
by charging a higher final price for cement. This should permit, by May,
1984, a substantial drop in the domestic cement price. The Government is
studying further means of improving the efficiency of Cemento Bayano,
including switching from fuel oil to coal.
- The Government is initiating a major restructuring of its
development finance corporation, COFINA. A recent analysis of its portfolio
revealed losses of some US$37 million in nonrecoverable loans and interest.
A new manager, appointed in August, 1982, has commenced the difficult task of
recovering as much as possible from the portfolio and restructuring the
Corporation's ownership with a view to a minority of the shares being held by
the Government. In April, 1983, COFINA engaged a well-known international
auditing company to carry out a full financial audit and an evaluation of the
portfolio as of June 30, 1983. Targets have also been set for substantial
staff reductions and other measures designed to permit a more efficient
operation.
-  The Government is actively considering a number of options for
divesting itself of all or part of the national airline, Air Panama. After



- 10 -
making heavy losses for a number of years, the airline's debts were taken
over bv the Central Government from COFINA in Jnne, 1981. The accumulated
deficit of Air Panama on December 31, 1981 (the latest date for which
comprehensive data are available) was USS30.9 million compared to total
assets of US$17.4 million while the loss for the calendar year 1981 was
USS3.1 million. The authorities are considering selling part of the
enterprise to another international airline (with the Government having
assumed the net liabilities); or disposal of the physical assets together
with sale or leasing of the routes and landing rights to other international
carriers.
29.       While few other non-agricultural entities require current
subsidies, the Government recognizes the scope for increasing their
efficiencv and hence reducing the cost of their services to the consumer.
Accordinaly a number of studies are to be commissioned to determine how costs
can be reduced in the context of each agency's individual circumstances.
Some of these are already supported by Bank ps'oject loans (e.g., technical
assistance to the Port Authority and institution building in the power and
water utilities) while others will likely be financed by other multilateral
or bilateral agencies. This work is expected to be completed by late 1984,
so that recommendations may be inplemented by the newly elected Government.
Public Investment
30.       The preparation of the public investment program in Panama is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (XIPPE). This
Ministry, and not that of Finance, also produces and monitors the current
budget. The investment bu-lgets are prepared with a high standard of
professional competence, and the institutional framework for the formulation
of a coherent investment pr&gram is therefore in place. General development
policy objectives are detailed on a sector by sector basis, and the total
investment requirement for each sector determined accordingly. Estimates of
financial requirements are prepared on a project by project basis by each
Ministry or agency, but the overall responsibility for matching them with
available financial resources belongs to MIPPE. Considerable importance is
now attached to the calculation of economic rates of return, and the staff of
{IPPE who prepare the budget are well versed in the techniques of project
appraisal. Controls have been tightened, and rare departures from the MIPPE
budget must be approved by the Finance Commission, a body which includes the
entire Economic Cabinet, and is chaired by the Vice President of the
Republic. These controls are applied not only to individual Ministries but
also to each autonomous entity, while all public borrowing (short, medium and
long term) is now monitored by, and subject to the approval of, the new
Director of Public Credit, also in MIPPE (para 21).
31.       These procedures, established in 1983, represent a considerable
improvement upon past practices. Previously, although the Government's
development program was theoretically sound, control of investment
e2.xenditures was often poor in practice. A number of projects, particularly
in :he agricultural, transport, tourism and housing sectors, were initiated
without clear economic justification. Others went ahead without being
included in the budget. These latter were frequently financed from the
current savings of the entity concerned or from borrowed commercial funds.
32.       Within the context of preparation of the proposed SAL, the
Government has focussed on further improving the quality of the 1983-85
investment program. The 1983 capital budget involves a reduction of 26
percent from 1982 and 29 percent from the amount originally requested by the



- 11 -
different Ministries and agencies. Investment 3/ is budgetted at USS389.5
million compared with USS524.6 million (see Table 1) in 1982. These cuts
have necessitated a careful reconsideration of priorities, and the program
has been formulated in strict accordance with economic criteria and the
demands of the new development strategy. The Government's freedom of action
in making cuts was severely limited by the substantial cost overruns of the
vital La Fortuna hydropower project. This accounts for over one fifth of
total budgetted capital expenditures in 1983. Almost all other major outlays
of the public electricity company have been deferred. The projects left out
have less pressing priority, while nearly all those that remain are
economically sound in accordance with evaluation criteria acceptable to the
Bank. Profitable state entities, such as the telephone company and the
Airport Authority are to be restricted to investments financed from their own
resources. Because of its critical financial situation, COFINA is being
restructured and and is permitted no new net lending. The inefficient state
sugar corporation is also being reformed; its highest cost mill was recently
closed (para 77), and operations at the other three are being curtailed, so
that no new investment is proposed. Most transport investments are for
necessary maintenance and rehabilitation, since a developed infrastructure is
largely in place. Despite diplomatic and contractual difficulties, the
Government cancelled a low priority but expensive (approximately US$200
million) Canal bridge project sponsored by a neighboring country. The
projects remaining in the budget, which are not to be financed from
internally generated resources, are supported by bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies. Loans from officialsources are expected to finance almost half
of total net outlays in 1983 and 1984.
33.       After the severe curtailment of 1983, capital expenditures are
expected to remain at about the same level in 1984 and 1985, according to
economic projections prepared by Bank staff. This implies that public
investment will have fallen to 7.2 percent of GDP in 1985 fron 12 percent in
1982. This is consistent with the Government's medium cerm target of
substantially reducing the share of public sector investment in the GDP from
the average of 13 percent prevailing between 1976 and 1982 to about 7 percent
by the mid 1980's. The Government intends to retain and strengthen the
institutional procedures established in 1983 to increase control over the
execution of the budget and approval of new proiects.
34.       The sectoral priorities of the 1983-85 program are reasonable and
in accordance with the structural adjustment strategy. Investment in the
directly productive sectors would represent about 25 percent of total public
investment over the period, and about 75 percent of this would be in
agriculture. Emphasis in this sector would, as in the past, be on farm
improvements, irrigation projects and shrimp farming. Resources are also set
aside for projects to develop production of raw materials for local
azroindustries.
31 This refers to net investment by the nonfinancial public sector and does
not include credit from financial entities financed out of loan
recoveries.



-12 -
35.       In energy, which accounts for over one fifta of total expenditures,
the Fortuna project dominates, absorbing practically all resources in 1983
and about 40 percent thereafter. This project will enable virtually all
demand to be met from hydroelectricity generation from 1985 onwards, leading
to anticipated savings of over US$65 million per year. In 1984 and 1985,
there will be important projects for improving transmission and distribution
systems for which Bank support is being requested. After revising demand
forecasts, IRHE bas postponed initiation of the next major hydroelectric
project (Changuinola) until the end of the decade.
36.       Infrastructure investment other than energy amounts to about 21
percent of the total. As already indicated, most transport expenditures are
for rehabilitation and maintenance, plus the continuation of Bank-supported
port investments and low cost improvements to the urban transport
infractructure in Panama City and other centers.
37.       Social sector investment would represent about 27 percent of
expenditures in the 1983-85 period. Outlays are being significantly reduced
from the high levels recorded up to the end of 1982. Over half the
contemplated investment is in public housing and community projects where the
emphasis is on providing adequate shelter for poor urban communities.
Severely deteriorated slum areas of Panama City and Colon are to be provided
with low cost housing. The Colon Urban Development Project (Loan No. 1878 of
August, 1980) supports part of this program. In the health sector, the
program emphasizes rehabilitation and remodeling of existing hospitals and
health centers as well as Bank-supported improvements in water supply and
sewerage facilities. The education sector has been sharply cut back in the
light of an already well-developed infrastructure, and again the program
concentrates on the upgrading and rehabilitation of existing facilities.
Public Sector Housing Policy
38.       As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
recently taken a number of important measures designed to strengthen
institutions arid financial control in the public housing sector. Prior to
these reforms, the sector's financial situation was becoming increasingly
precarious.
39.       Since its creation in 1973, the Ministry of Housing (MIVI) has
rapidly increased its housing construction from a level of 1,200 units to
over 6,000 per year in the early 1980's. The purchase of these low income
houses is normally financed by loans from the National Mortgage Bank (BHN),
which was established as a subordinate agency of MIVI to undertake the
finan'-ial management of the Ministry's activities and also promote the
expan:ion of private housing finance. This expansion was to be achieved by
strengthening the savings and loan system and, eventually, by creating a
secondary mortgage market.
40.       Up to the end of 1982, little progress had been made in achieving
these objectives. In a number of cases, MIVI housing projects were initiated
without proper control or disbursement procedures, and in the absence of any
guarantees that the necessary finance would be forthcoming. This frequently



- 13 -
led the BEN to obtain external commercial credits to supplement its finances;
the terms and conditions attached to these loans were inconsistent with the
nature of the bank's portfolio and its activities. Moreover, interest rates
on BEN loans were fixed arbitrarily on a case-by-case basis by MIVI. In some
cases, rates were granted which were insufficient to cover costs and ensure
recuperation of the loan.
41.       The situation became further complicated in 1981 and 1982 by the
intervention of the Social Security Agency (CSS) in the promotion and
financing of housing construction and the granting of mortgages at heavily
subsidized rates of interest. This impeded efforts by the BEN to establish a
more realistic interest rate structure. In addition, the CSS program grew
beyond the Agency's management capacity (over USS100 million were spent in
1981 and 1982) with consequent control failures and substantial losses. As
of mid-1983 the total losses had still not been finally determined, but are
estimated to have exceeded US$40 million.
42.       To ameliorate this situation, the Government has carried out a
number of important reforms. The CSS has formally undertaken not to engage
in further promotion of housing construction, nor to grant mortgages at
subsidized interest rates. Instead, the Agency will invest in BEN bonds. A
procedure has been established by which MIVI only receives money from the BEN
for projects backed by proper studies, which meet the correct social
criteria; also disbursements will only be made against vouchers of work
performed. Projects cannot commence until MIVI has received formal assurance
from the BEN that there are funds available to finance them. The BEHN WiUl no
longer be permitted independent and uncontrolled access to commercial bank
credit, while its direct Central Government subsidy is to be gradually
eliminated. Consequently, it is to rely much more on loan recoveries, bond
placements with the CSS and loans on favorable terms and conditions from
concessionary agencies. The KEN has also revised its interest rate policy.
All future loans will carry a standard rate of interest, initially of 10
percent annually for low income housing. This currently involves a subsidy
of about 1 percent based on the cost of money, the bank's operating expenses
and the cost of financing basic infrastructure related to housing
development. It compares to a current and expected inflation rate of about 7
percent per year. Privately financed mortgages in Panama currently bear an
annual interest rate of 12 percent.
Social Security and Health
43.       The CSS is financially the most important public sector institution
outside the Central Government. In 1982, the CSS had a total cash income of
nearly US$320 million (7.6 percent of GDP), generated cash savings of US$52
million (1.2 percent of GDP), and was responsible for nearly one fifth of the
total public sector capital expenditure. Despite its apparently healthy
current financial situation, there is growing recognition that the CSS will
face serious financial problems in the medium term unless remedial action is
taken. There is an increasing probability that resources will be inadequate
to meet the Agency's growing future obligations. These problems, should they
arise, will be extremely difficult to solve in Panama where the authorities
have no recourse to Central Bank finance to cover shortfalls. A financial
crisis in the social security system would, therefore, have potentially grave
political as well as economic consequences.
44.       Social Security management has reversed most of the short term



- 14 -
difficulties associated with the Agency's intervention in direct housing
finance, and is now concerned with the more fundamental problems. These
include an inappropriate management and decision making structure, lack of
adequate statistical and internal financial information, the absence of an
accurate, up-to-date actuarial evaluation and an inappropriate investment
policy. The CSS's coverage is continuously being extended in all three of
its principal areas of activity, which are health and maternity; old age,
disability and death; and professional risks. Not only this, but benefits
are sometimes increased without considering the consequences for the CSS's
long term financial viability.
45.       Another area of concern which is intimately linked to the financial
well-being of the CSS is that of the Integrated System of Health Care. This
is meant to cater to low income patients located in areas outside the
Metropolitan area of Panama City.  Although the system is operated jointly
with the Ministry of Health, the CSS in practice finances it since the
Ministry's budget is insufficient. The quality of service is generally poor
and there is a considerable amount of wastage.
46.       In order to tackle these sensitive and complex problems, the
authorities have requested Bank financed technical assistance to belp
establish an effective and financially sound health and social security
system. This assistance would take the form both of studies and of experts
to implement new methods and train CSS staff in their use. It is anticipated
that most of the policy recommendations from this assistance will be ready
for the Government's consideration before the end of 1984.
Management of State-Owned Assets
47.       Under the provisions of the Canal Treaty, signed in 1979,
considerable assets in the previous Canal Zone reverted to Panama for its
immediate use and/or development. These include three ports, a
trans-isthmian railway, two unused airports, and a large amount of housing.
Besides these important facilities, Panama received a substantial amount of
land, the most valuable being that near Panama City and Colon. Included with
this land are all ancillary facilities (streets, utility distribution
systems, etc.) and the Bridge of the Americas over the Canal. While their
physical assets are worth much less, all of the service outlets of the Panama
Canal Company also reverted to the country.
48.       The Government has undertaken a number of actions, some of them
with Bank support, to increase national benefits from these reverted assets.
A new container facility is being constructed on the Atlantic side, and the
Pacific port of Balboa has also been provided with modern container handling
facilities. A dry dock and ship repair facilities have begun operations. An
oil pipeline has been built across the Isthmus, from whi:ch Panama will likely
derive some US$80 million per year in net profits plus corporate tax
proceeds4/ from 1985 onwards. The Colon Free Zone bas been expanded into
previous Canal Zone territory. This enabled it to overcome a serious land
constraint, and hence permitted rapid growth until the Latin American
financial crisis started to take its toll in 1982.
4, Assuming present charges and volume transshipped (US$0.95 rer barrel
and 80,000 barrels per day).



- 15 -
49.       Despite this impressive progress, much remains to be done if the
country is to secure the full benefits from the reverted lands. They could,
for example, be used for export-oriented industrial and service activities in
accordance with the Government's new industrial strategy (paras. 55-70).
Such activities could concentrate on light industrial products, presently
being shipped in their final form through the Canal, enhanced tourist
facilities, and commercial operations particularly in the Colon area where
the unemployment problem is gravest. In addition to the Colon Free Zone,
other duty free areas and industrial estates could be established as well as
modern wholesale markets for agricultural produce brought to the Metropolitan
Area. Albrook Field, an unused airport on the outskirts of Panama City, has
been considered as a site for such activities for some time.
50.       However, full exploitation of the assets is impeded by current
legislation. The only public sector institution with the legal authority to
rent or sell facilities in the old Canal Zone to the private sector is the
Canal Authority, which was established after the signing of the Treaty. With
the laudable aim of not creating another cumbersome bureaucracy, the Canal
Authority was provided with no budgetary support, and cannot, therefore,
ope;-ate. Legislation has been prepared, and presented to the Legislative
Assembly, to permit the Ministry of Finance, as custodian of National Assets,
to lease or sell the lands. This will not only facilitate their productive
utilization, but will also be an important potential source of revenue for
the public sector.
51.       A good transport system is essential for the smooth functioning of
the industrial-commercial complex which Panama expects to create on both
sides of the Canal. Current land transport facilities are clearly inadequate
for expanded modern cargo shipment. The two-lane trans-isthmian highway is
invariably congested during peak hours, while the railway is rundown, and
would require considerable modernization to handle more container traffic.
From a fiscal viewpoint, the railway is already an important drain on
resources. The current operating subsidy in 1982 was nearly US$4.5 million,
and substantial sums also had to be spent on emergency maintenance. The
Government has requested Bank support under the proposed project for a study
to assess the future land transport requirements of the trans-isthmian
corridor, and to make recommendations on appropriate transport policy and
investments, taking account of Panama's obligations under the Canal Treaty.
Reform of the Customs Administration
52.       The Panamanian Customs Administration does not operate efficiently
and, consequently, substantial sums are lost each year in the form of
uncollected revinues. The staff of the Administration are poorly trained and
their methods of operation are inadequate to cope with the complex problems
of modern commerce. This slows down, and at times even prevents, the
introduction of desirable reforms to tariff policy. The Government is
receiving technical assistance from an INF expert who is preparing detailed
recommendations concerning: (i) changes in the method of payment of customs
duties to impede false declarations of value; (ii) the introduction of the
Brussels Nlomenclature (for which a detailed study has already been prepared)
following a period of intensive training for Customs staff; (iii) a change
from specific to ad valorem tariffs (this is already being implemented in the
case of the tariffs replacing quantitative restrictions-para. 59-61); and
(iv) a change from FOB to CIF as the basis for the assessment of tariffs.



-16 -
Except for (iii), these reforms require new legislation and will probably be
implemented only after the new Assembly takes office in October, 1984. The
authorities are, however, currently studying the legal possibility of
authorizing some partial reforms by Ministerial decree.
Improved Public Sector Debt Management
53.       Prior to early 1983, Central Government control and monitoring of
the commercial borrowing of public sector enterprises and autonomous agencies
was largely ineffective in practice. Moreover, up-dated statistical
information was inadequate. As a consequence, several agencies were
permitted to borrow short term funds to finance projects and activities with
a return that would only materialize in the long term if at all. Not only
has the Government improved control over public sector borrowing (para. 30),
but the statistical information on public sector debt is now among the best
in the Region. The terms, conditions and sources of each individual credit,
together with amounts outstanding to each agency, are fully documented and
easily accessible. In order to assist recent negotiations with commercial
banks, coverage has been extended to short term credit lines to the National
Bank of Panama and the Savings Bank as well as to the non-financial public
sector.
54.       One of the key objectives of both the short term stabilization and
the structural adjustment programs is to slow down the rate of accumulation
of external debt, while improving its maturity structure and thus the cost of
servicing it. To this end, the rate of growth of public external
indebtedness is programmed to fall sharply from 20 percent in 1982 to 8.5
percent in 1983, and to an average of 6 percent per year, in nominal terms,
for the rest of the 1980's. The investment program does not contemplate any
net use of commercial bank credit, suppliers credits or foreign bond credits
by the public sector in 1983 or 1984. In the medium term, the reduced scope
of the public sector, the consequent smaller share of public investment in
the GDP, combined with an improved public sector savings performance, is not
only expected to significantly lower both the debt and its servicing burden
but also to enhance Panama's already proven creditworthiness.
C. Industrial Policy, Trade Liberalization and Employment Overview
55.       While Panama's previous policies have encouraged the development of
a large, competitive service sector, they have not been conducive to
labor-intensive, export-oriented manufacturing activities.  Manufacturing
accounts for only about 10 percent of GDP and employs about the same
percentage of the labor force. Production has been oriented almost entirely
to the domestic market and consists mostly of construction material, food
processing and light industries. In the 1960's growth in manufacturing value
added was slightly faster than that of GDP; since 1970, however, the sector
has lagged behind with output growing at only 60 percent of the rate for the
economy as a whole. Employment in the sector doubled from 24,000 in 1960 to
48,000 in 1970; since then, it has stagnated and was only just over 50,000 in
1982. Firms have become increasingly capital-intensive, and many
manufacturing plants operate below full capacity, often with only one shift.
In 1982, manufactured exports were 13 percent of total exports and only 2.6
percent of industrial output.



- 17 -
56.       The trends described above are wholly consistent with the
prevailing structure of incentives. The usual incentive mechanism for
manufacturing investment is a contract with the Government under which the
investor undertakes to carry out an investment project in return for
exemptions from income tax and import duties, reduced rates of taxation
and/or tax credit certificates. On expiring, these contracts have been
renewed automatically. In addition, benefits usually include protection
against foreign competition through import quotas or other quantitative
restrictions. Incentives such as re-investment and accelerated depreciation
allowances favor the intensive use of capital relative to labor. Effective
protection of final goods produced for the local market is frequently
excessive, and has diverted entrepreneurial and financial resources away from
exports. Individual contracts relate benefits to negotiating strength rather
than desirability of the project, increase dispersion of effective
protection, and discriminate against small firms.   Quota protection is
usually accompanied by price cont-ols which limit profitability, favor
consumption over savings and discourage investment.
57.       The regulation of the labor market in Panama through a detailed
Labor Code 5/ is another factor which inhibits employment creation through
high severance pay, the curtailment of the freedom to adjust employment and
high wage-based welfare taxes. Minimum wage regulations, while not regarded
as pushing up wage costs, are unduly detailed. Ad hoc increases in wages
decreed by the Government and a history of intervention in collective
bargaining increase uncertainty and encourage entrepreneurs to build higher
labor cost assumptions into their project planning. Together with excessive
protection, these regulations reinforce the country's relatively high wage
levels: in 1982, monthly industrial wages in Panama were about 15 percent
higher on average than those prevailing in Korea, Philippines, Brazil and
Mexico. Recent exchange rate movements have further weakened Panama's
competitive position within Latin America.
58.       As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
embarked upon a liberalization of its industrial and commercial policies
aimed at improving competitiveness. Eventually, the new policy will
establish a lower and much more uniform level of tariff protection for all
private industrial activities, implying an end to quantitative restrictions
and exonerations. The first steps in tnis process-the substitution of
quantitative restrictions by tariffs-are already being taken. These have
been azcompanied by other specific measures to encourage employment and
exports. The program and a _ions are described in the following paragraphs.
Conversion of Quantitative Restrictions into Tariffs
59.       In late 1982, the Government began to implement an earlier
Presidential Decree, calling for the elimination of import quotas as an
instrument of protection. Initially, however, progress was slow. The
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI) studied the mechanics of conversion
to tariffs on a case-by-case basis so as to ensure the adequate amount of
protection. This work was extremely time consuming, especially given the
limited technical resources at the Ministry's disposal. By the end of
5/ The Labor Code, legislated in 1972, is administered by the Ministry of
Labor.



- 18 -
February, 1983, studies had been completed on only eight products. Moreover,
the Ministry was unable to effectively coordinate w:rk on the quantitative
restrictions administered by othe- government agencies.6/ Since May, the
Government has considerably accelerated the conversion process. A working
group, headed by the Director of Economic and Social Planning at MIPPE, and
made up of senior representatives of MIPPE, MICI, the Ministry of Finance,
and of the other agencies directly administering quantitative restrictions
has been formed to carry out the program. The universe of quantitative
restrictions has been more precisely defined to include not only quotas of
industrial products administered by MICI, but all quantitative restrictions
of whatever type,7/ administered by any government agency. This universe
includes 290 tariff categories; of these 38 were eliminated by June 30,
1983. Of the remainder, a further 95 were lifted between June 30 and October
15, 1983. Thus, in less than one year, nearly half of the total universe of
quantitative restrictions has been eliminated or substituted by tariffs.
These actions have been put into effect by the issue of Ministerial Decrees
after appropriate Cabinet authorization. They do not require new
legislation.
60.       Mfost remaining quantitative restrictions, which are applied to
products of a particularly sensitive nature, will be eliminated over a two
year period. Studies will be undertaken, some of them supported by the Bank,
to assist in determining the initial level of tariff protec:ion to replace
the quota. These studies are expected to be completed by the end of May,
1984, at which time the Government will have prepared a detailed timetable
for the elimination of the remaining quantitative restrictions, and the
proposed initial levels of tariff protection which will replace them.
Approval of these would be a condition for the release of the second tranche
of the proposed SAL.
Maximum and Minimum Tariff Levels
61.       The Government has announced that it will limit tariff protection
afforded to new industrial activities to a maximum 125 percent effective
protection in the first year, falling to 100 percent thereafter, and then
progressively towards a minimum tariff level. In Panama, given the average
proportion of value added in local manufacturing, these are equivalent to
average nominal ad valorem tariffs of about 40 and 33 percent respectively.
With regard to existing industries, most of the tariffs replacing quotas so
far lifted are moderate, ranging from an equivalent of 25 to 75 percent ad
valorem, with the average around 40 percent. While the government clearly
anticipates cases where higher initial tariff protection may be required,
these will be exceptional and largely confined to agroindustries using local
agricultural products as raw materials. For other industries initial tariffs
will not exceed 100 percent ad valorem in more than 25 tariff categories
(about 7.5 percent of the total universe).
6/ Nearly all quantitative restrictions are administered by the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, the Price Regulation Office, the Agricultural
Marketing Institute, and the Ministry of Agriculture.
7/ Excluding items related to national security and public morality.



- 19 -
62.       A new minimum tariff level will be established by May 31, 1984, and
incorporated into the new industrial incentives legislation to be drafted by
that date (paragraph 64). The adoption of the minimum tariff will, by
implication, end exonerations and will be applied to some industrial inputs,
machinery and food product imports which now have very low or zero tariffs.
This will help reduce effective protection for the production of final goods
while increasing it for agricultural and intermediate inputs, activities
traditionally penalized by the current structure of protection. The minimum
tariff will be as nearly uniform as possible, while allowing for some
flexibility in exceptional cases. Initial tariffs will be progressively
reduced to the minimum range over a period of three to five years, depending
on the product. By the end of Nay, 1984, the Government will have prepared a
detailed timetable for this, which will include a more rapid speed of
adjustment for those industries favored by higher levels of initial
protection. However, advice will be provided, through the Naticnal
Investment Council (para. 68), to help firms plan the transition from
essentially import-substituting to more efficient export-oriented activities.
Industrial Incentives Legislation
63.       The industrial incentives described in paragraph 56 are governed by
a specific piece of legislation, Law No. 413 of December, 1970. Contracts
under this Law are signed for up to 20 years. As of September, 1983, there
were 483 firms which had contracts in force, and the average contract had
another six years to run. About 80 percent of existing contracts will have
expired by 1990.
64.       In view of the undesirable features of the contract system, the
Government proposes to replace Law 413 by a general system of incentives to a
wider potential group of beneficiaries, thereby eliminating the concept of
individually negotiated contracts. The Government is to prepare a draft
version of the new legislation to be approved by the Cabinet by the end of
Kay, 1984. It is anticipated that the new Law will be considered by the
Legislative Assembly before the end of 1984. The signing of new contracts
and the renewal of existing ones under Law 413 will cease when the new
legislation comes into effect. In the interim contracts which expire may be
renewed for a period of up to five years; the authorities feel that this is
essential to enhance the new legislation's acceptability. For industries
which begin between June 1983 and the date when the new legislation takes
effect, there will be no quota protection and no guarantee of return on
capital, while tariff protection is to be limited (para. 61). Cabinet
approval of the draft industrial legislation, including the proposed minimum
tariff, would be conditions for the release of the second tranche of the
proposed SAL.
Price Controls
65.       Panama's present price controls were established by Law No. 60 of
1969 with the principal objective of maintaining the supply and orderly
distribution of basic foods and other goods for low income families. The Law
provides for a Price Regulation Office 8/ consisting of a Director and Price
8/ This Office, although theoretically under the authority of the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, enjoys a considerable measure of political
autonomy.



- 20 -
Adjustment Committee comprising seven members: one from the Economic Cabinet,
two representing labor unions, and representatives for wholesalers,
retailers, farmers and manufacturers. At present, the price controls are
applied to about 75 items, 50 of which are food and food products. Fuel and
items such as inexpensive clothes, shoes and pharmaceuticals are also
included as are cement and some other construction materials. Prices for
locally produced food are set at each stage of the production and distribu-
tion process, starting with the farmer. Other controls are enforced at the
retail level. The Price Regulation Office does not appear to have a clear
formula to determine prices. The private sector constantly complains of a
long time lag between the petitioning and granting of a price increase. In
some cases, this is more than a year. The increases, when granted, often
take the form of one large hike, rather than incremental adjustments. This
practice not only has a negative impact on sales, but also squeezes profit
margins and discourages investment.
66.       All the products with price controls also benefit from import quota
protection administered by the Price Regulation Office. Removal of import
quotas renders price controls on the affected industrial products redundant
since domestic prices are then regulated automatically by competition from
imports. Local firms are protected through tariffs. The Government is
therefore accompanying the abolition of quantitative restrictions with the
dismantling of price controls on the affected products. By September 30,
1983, price controls on 25 products had been lifted and the Government
intends to lift most remaining controls on industrial products by
mid-1985. This will provide an important stimulus to private investor
confidence, and the consequent reduction in bureaucratic intervention will
help to compensate firms for reduced quota and tariff protection. Following
this, the role of the Price Regulation Office will be confined to a few very
basic and politically sensitive items such as maize and rice. The price
control regime for these and other agricultural products will be reviewed
upon completion of the Agricultural Trade and Price Policies study to be
carried out under the proposed project.
67.       Another important signal to the private sector came in March 1983,
when the Government freed rent controls on all new housing projects which
carry a monthly unit rent of US$250 or more. This measure will help to ease
supply constraints for middle class housing.
Export Incentives
68.       In 1982, the Government established a National Investment Council
to promote export industries and assist investors in dealing with the local
bureaucracy. The Council is headed by a leading Panamanian businessman. In
the relatively short time since beginning operations, it has already been
successful in attracting a number of investors to Panama despite the
difficult international economic climate. The Council is to receive a
substantial amount of technical assistance from USAID to enable it to expand
its promotion activities abroad.
69.       Direct export stimulation is difficult in Panama, as the exchange
rate mechanism cannot be used and fiscal resources for export subsidies are
limited. At present, the tariff protection afforded to domestic production



- 21 -
activities is counterbalanced by an export incentive in the form of
redeemable tax certificates (CATs), currently 20 percent of the value added
of non-traditional 9/ exported goods. The CAT. are negotiable and their
holders may use them to meet a variety of tax obligations. Despite
complicated and lengthy application procedures, CATP Are considered an
important incentive by the private sector and have undoubtedly contributed to
the recent growth in manufactured exports. 10/ By May 1984, the
authorities will simplify the process for obEtaining CATs and relate their
value to the wage bill of the factory workforce. This will provide
incentives not only for exports but for employment also. Moreover, by the
same date, an appropriate mechanism will be devised for compensating
exporters for their loss of import duty exonerations. Considerable care will
be taken to prevent discrimination against smaller firms with lower-paid
workers and to avoid adverse fiscal repercussions. The Government would aim
to finance additional expenditures on the export/employment subsidy by the
extra revenues generated by replacing quotas by tariffs and eliminating
import duty exonerations.
Employment
70.       In its efforts to stimulate employment, the Government attaches
much greater importance to improvements in the investment climate than
attempting to reduce costs by direct intervention in the labor market.
Panama will likely remain a relatively high wage center, even with a labor
subsidy. This has to be counterbalanced by stressing its compensating
comparative advantages, and by reforms in labor legislation (para. 57).
Despite their political sensitivity, the Government has already introduced
some modifications in the Labor Code's interpretation, while small firms have
been exonerated from severance payments. The Government has established a
Legal Commission, headed by the Attorney General, to examine further possibl3
changes in interpretation. With a view to more fundamental reforms, it
intends to commission a study, financed by USAID, to ascertain the extent to
which private investment and job creation have been discouraged by the Code,
and to suggest appropriate modifications. The results of the study will be
available to the Government before the end of 1984.
D. Agricultural Policy
Overview
71.       For some time now, the agricultural sector has been the least
dynamic of the Panamanian economy. Its average annual growth from 1970-72 to
1980-82 was only 1.7 percent, compared with 5.7 percent for non-agricultural
GDP. This reflects the contradiction of sectoral policy in the 1970's, which
attempted to transfer income to specific rural groups as well as stimulate
higher output. This low growth occurred despite the investment of
substantial public resources, both in terms of finance and personnel. The
total number of public employees in the sector is nearly 7,600; 5 percent of
9/ Principal traditional exports are bananas, sugar, shririp, coffee and
fishmeal.
10/ Since 1974, when the CATs were introduced, non-traditional exports have
increased at a rate of 21.5 percent per year (albeit from a low base)
compared to 4.8 percent for total exports, and the proportion of non-
traditional exports benefitting from CATs has risen from 36 percent to
67 percent.



- 22 -
the total agricultural labor force. The 19S2 budget for the Ministry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA), and the autonomous and semi-autonomous
agencies operating in the sector, was about US$175 million, over 40 percent
of agriculture's value added.
72.       During 1969-73 the Government undertook an ambitious land reform;
over 16 percent of Panama's land changed hands in 5 years. More than 140
agrarian reform settlements Casentamientos) were formed on this land, and
considerable government attention was paid to them.  The lending of the
state-owned agricultural bank was increased rapidly, and much of its lending
went to them. New institutions were formed to assist in marketing their
output. Even the traditional services of MIDA were channelled mainly towards
their needs during the 1970s. Because they produce almost entirely for the
domestic market, most -dIDA policies emphasize import substitution. Official
intervention in agricultural production was not, however, confined to
asentamientos; the Government also made major investments in three new sugar
mills, took over a financially weak citrus establishment, and opened new
scate enterprises in bananas and other export crops. Unfortunately.
theseactions resulted in many unrecoverable loans, an inflexible price
support system, and poorly managed state enterprises. An indirect and
unquantifiable cost was the adverse effect on the previously buoyant private
agricultural sector.
73.       There is no agronomic reason why considerably higher rates of
agricultural growth-perhaps as much as double historical rates-cannot be
reached. Such a goal would -_mply production based more on Panama's
comparative advantages and less on protection against foreign competition.
Panama's long term advantage seems to lie principally in: (a) forestry in the
central mountain areas, based on reforestation with fast growing lumber and
pulp species; (b) dual purpose semi-intensive cattle raising in the central
and western coastal plains and foothills; (c) small scale, labor intensive
production of tropical export crops (e.g. coffee, cacao), and of temperate
zone vegetable and fruit crops in the upper altitudes; and (Q) equally small
scale, labor-intensive growina of selected vegetable and fruit crops with
irrigation near the rivers of the central provinces. Movement toward this,
or a similar output pattern, would reduce the importance of crops with marked
seasonality of employment, such as sugar cane, which have high labor costs
during peak periods.
74.       The execution of this development strategy implies the need for a
fundamental change in agricultural policy which would orient the sector
towards higher productivity and output, increase productive employment,
reduce the costs of basic f'odstuffs, and expand exports. The specific
measures to achieve this include: (a) reducing price controls and subsidies
to inefficient producers; (b) separating policies aimed at improving the
social welfare of the rural poor from production policies; (c) revising the
role of public institutions in agriculture to achieve these objectives; (d)
reducing and eventually eliminating subsidies for state-owned agricultural
corporations and enterprises; and (e) increasing productivity through more
effective and selective research and technology transfer.
75.       A number of important reforms have already been carried out,
covering public sector institutions in agriculture, the legislative
framework, and pricing and trade policy. However, further progress in the



- 23 -
execution of this complex program is considerably impeded by lack of
knowledge. Accordingly the Government is accompanying specific measures with
a series of studies to determine how best to ameliorate many of the sector's
remaining problems. Assistance in this effort would be provided under the
proposed projezt.
The Public Sector Institutions
76.       State intervention in Panama's agriculture extends from the HIDA
itself, to credit and marketing and to direct production by parastatal
enterprises. While much of MIDA's efforts are directed towards the
asentamientos, it has neglected the bulk of small and medium-sized farmers
and thus many of the rural poor. Moreover, it has not developed the capacity
to analyze policy or to guide and coordinate the rest of the state sector in
agriculture. Consequently each entity tervs to take decisions in a policy
vacuum. The Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA) is primarily involved in
implementing the Government's pricing policies (para. 81). The Agricultural
Development Bank (BDA) is practically the sole lender to small farmers,
reflecting the lack of interest of other banks. Most of its lending goes to
rice producers, and only a small proportion is directed towards crops where
Panama has a greater comparative advantage. Because of excessive lending
costs (estimated to be 6 percent), it operates at a loss despite charging a
positive rate of interest II/. The Institute for Agricultural Research,
IDIAP, focusses on traditional crops such as corn and rice and has paid
inadequate attention to the special agronomic problems of Panama. Another
service institution, the Agricultural Machinery Enterprise, ENDEMA, hires out
agricultural equipment at heavily subsidized rates with priority given to
asentamientos. The most important directly productive state enterprise is
the La Victoria Sugar Corporation (CALV), which consists of four mills, three
of them built during the 1970's. Total milling capacity is some 18,000 tons
per day. CALV has required large subsidies every year since 1975; 1982
operating losses by the Corporation were about US$40 million, two-thirds of
public sector savings. Other state producers are the Chiriqui Citrus
Company, the Bayano Development Corporation, and two banana producers, COBAPA
and COBANA; all have required operating subsidies.
77.       The Government's comprehensive review of state enterprises in
the agricultural sector has resulted in a number of important actions,
reducing subsidies by some $27 million (nearly 50 percent of 1982 public
sector savings):
- On March 12, 1983, the Government announced the closure of the
Felipillo sugar mill, the largest and most inefficient of the CALV
complex. Felipillo accounts for about 30 percent of CALV's total
milling capacity. The mill's losses in 1982 amounted to US$15.5
million (39 percent nf the Corporation's total). At the other
mills, the harvesting season was cut short. The average cost per
pound of sugar produced by CALV as a whole in 1982 was just over 30
cents; at Felipillo it was over 48 cents. This compares with an
average FOB price, received by Panama, of 10.2 cents per lb. The
closure of Felipillo is the first step in a rationalization program
for the Corporation as a whole. This program will be further
developed, as a result of the studies of agricultural institutions
financed under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
11/ 9 percent as of June 30, 1983.



- 24 -
- In 1982, the state-owned banana coporations COBAPA and
COBANA 12/ were closed, generating savings of about US$1.5
million per year in subsidies. They had incurred heavy losses
since 1980 following a change of management, labor problems and
marketing difficulties. COBAPA's plantation in Chiriqui Province
occupied about 1,300 hectares which previously belonged to the
United Brands Corporation.
- At the beginning of 1983, the Government announced that state
subsidies for the Bayano Development Corporation (BDC) and the
Chiriqui Citrus Company would cease, involving a saving of just
over US$1 rzillion per year. The BDC was created in 1975 to protect
the water-.shed of the Bayano hydroelectric reservoir, and to develop
the lantIs around the reservoir.  Most of its output consists of
timber, rice, sugar cane and beef cattle.   Despite substantial
capital expenditures, yields have remained generally low.
BDC's financial situation, already weak from poor operating
results, has suffered from heavy outlays on technical assistance
to tenant farmers and social services to surrounding rural
commmnities. The Chiriqui Citrus Company, incorporating orchards
and a processing plant, was taken over by the Government after it
was abandoned as unprofitable by a US corporation. After takeover,
it initially suffered heavy operating losses; however, these have
been reduced in recent years. Alternatives for disposing of BDC and
the Chiriqui Company will be studied under the proposed loan.
- A number of actions have been taken to reduce losses at the
Agricultural Development Bank (BDA). A new management team,
appointed in August, 1982, is making a serious effort to reduce the
number of bad debts in the bank's portfolio. Recent credit
restrictions will lower the bank's lendable funds to about US$33
million in 1983, compared to US$44 million in 1982.  No further
access to commercial bank credit will be permitted.  This tightness
of funds will force the bank to be more selective in terms of
credit risks. The interest rate subsidy has been reduced from 7 to
3 percentage points since 1981. Losses will be further reduced in
1983 by increasing to 95 percent the proportion of new loans
covered by adequate crop insurance.
78.       Further institutional reforms would be determined with the
assistance of a comprehensive study of agricultural institutions, financed by
the proposed loan. The study would aim to reveal the main institutional
factors impeding the implementation of the Government's new agricultural
strategy, and the extent to which policy discourages higher output. Using
its recommendations, the Government will adopt measures to ameliorate many of
the sector's remaining problems. Specific issues to be addressed will
include:
12, Although they were two corporations, COBAPA managed both operations
since 1979.



- 25 -
Review of detailed agricultural policies and the objectives
and strategies of the state agricultural institutions;
Design of a management system to provide Lore effective
coordination of the state institutions in the agricultural
sector;
The reorientation and streamlining of the principal state
institutions to achieve policy objectives;
Improved management capabilities in agricultural institutions;
A review of the alternatives to direct state production
(divestiture, leasing, etc.);
Strengthening the capability of the Agricultural Research
Institute;
Strengthening formulation and execution of policy in the
forestry subsector.
Agricultural Legislation
79.       The Government has undertaken to drastically revise the
Agricultural Incentives Law. Just as policy in the industrial sector is
dominated by the provisions of Law 413 (para. 64), so the Agricultural
Incentives Law encapsulates the philosophy of past agricultural policy into
one legislative instrunent. According to the Law, imports of foodstuffs are
quantitatively restricted and annual percentage targets are established for
their replacement by home produced goods. Price controls on the family food
basket are maintained. The Law permits and encourages state intervention in
factor and input prices, capital markets and agricultural production. The
existence of this Law is clearly contrary to the new development strategy for
the economy and the sector. Accordingly, it is to be substantially
modified. The same timetable is to be followed as in the case of the
Industrial Incentives Law-a draft version of the new legislation is to be
prepared by the end of May, 1984, on which the Bank will be asked to
comment. Cabinet approval of the proposed new Law would be a condition for
the release of the second tranche of the proposed SAL.
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policy
80.       The principal objective of the Government's new trade and pricing
policy for agriculture is to reduce resource misallocations, and hence
stimulate higher output, by reorienting price signals and incentives towards
areas where Panama has a greater comparative advantage. This implies a
reduction of the state's role in agricultural marketing, elimination of most
monopolies and greater reliance on market forces in determining the
allocation of resources among alternative crops. It does not imply a
complete disappearance of the state's role in agricultural pricing; it is
understood that a certain amount of regulatory intervention will be necessary
to smooth out sharp fluctuations in supply and the price movements that
result from them. In certain specific cases, the authorities also wish to



- 26 -
retain the legal capability of quantitatively controlling imports and exports
to prevent shortages, and large surpluses resulting from dumping.
81.       Previous price policy in the agricultural sector has been oriented
towards providing incentives for certain basic products (rice, corn, beans
and sugar), in most cases with the aim of achieving national self-
sufficiency. In order to subsidize domestic consumption, price controls are
imposed and restrictions placed on exports of other products (notably, beef
and coffee until recently, fishmeal and cacao). This has led to the
overconcentration of resources in areas where Panama's comparative advantage
is weak while providing disincentives for the production of export goods.
Support prices are high, especially for rice, and this has encouraged
substantial overproduction plus illegal importing from neighboring
countries. In order to finance its rice losses, [MA has a monopoly as
importer of maize, onions, beans, sorghum and edible oils, which it directly
retails, or sells to private traders. Since mid-1982. however, these profits
have not sufficed and IMA's financial situation has considerably worsened due
to the large volume of rice accumulated.
82.       In accordance with its new agricultural strategy the Government has
recently undertaken a number of important reforms to modify its trade and
price policy. Price controls on key commodities have been lifted; high
support prices which led to the misallocation of resources have been reduced;
and exports are now encouraged thanks to the removal of restrictions.
Several of these measures have been under consideration for some years, and
have been the subject of Bank dialogue with the authorities. The specific
reforms carried out to date are the following:
-    In March, 1983, the support price for rice was reduced by
US$22 per ton (8 percent). This will discourage surplus
production and lead to annual fiscal savings of over US$4
million. In order to reduce the impact on farmers' incomes of
further support price reductions, the Government is
introducing a system of production and distribution of
certified seeds with special emphasis on rice, corn and
sorghum. This system, which is supported by the IDB, will be
ready for implementation in early 1985. It will enable a
substantial increase in productivity in these crops and
thereby permit an accelerated reduction in support prices
toward border levels.
-    In March, 1983, beef exports were liberated.  Export quotas
had resulted in output stagnation during the 1970s. Prior
project work, including a recent Bank study, had underlined
the importance of ending the export quota system. Future
actions will concentrate on rehabilitating slaughter houses
and processing plants to export standard.
-    Domestic price controls on the higher quality cuts of meat
were lifted in September, 1983.
-    The price of potatoes, another major staple, was freed in
March, 1983.
-    Export quota restrictions on coffee were lifted in September,
1983.



- 27 -
-   Milk was previously classified as either Grade A or
industrial quality. As a result, low income groups were
restricted to extremely poor quality fresh milk. Also, many
farmers, technically incapable of producing Grade A milk, had
no incentive to improve quality and Lncrease production. Milk
has been reclassified into three grades, including an
intermediate Grade B; the corresponding price adjustments are
to be made before the end of 1983.
-    In September, 1983, import quotas were lifted for five
agricultural products and a considerable number of processed
items. A timetable for further liberalization measures will
be prepared by the end of May 1984, and its approval will be a
condition of the release of the proposed second tranche of the
SAL.
83.       To assist its efforts in further policy modifications, the
Government will commission a study of agricultural price and trade policies
to be financed under the proposed loan. Using the study's recommendations,
which should be available by December, 1984, the Government proposes to adopt
further specific measures to ease price controls, reduce state intervention
in marketing, and eliminate some state marketing monopolies.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 13,
84.      The Bank has to date made twenty-seven loans to Panama totalling
US$467.9 million (net of cancellations). Of these, 13 loans for US$159.0
million are fully disbursed, two for roads totalling US$13.1 million; one for
an airport project for US$20 million; three for agriculture totalling US$5.7
million; two for fisheries totalling US$8.2 million, three for power for
US$76 million; one for ports for US$24 million; and one for water supply and
sewerage for US$12.0 million.  Ongoing operations include one project for
livestock credit; one for development of tropical tree crops; two for
development banking; two for highway maintenance and rehabilitation; three in
the power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); one to
support energy planning and petroleum exploration; one to help develop the
water supply and sewerage sector; one for the urban development of Colon; and
one for port development. The most recent loan to Panama, a sixth power
project, was approved by the Executive Directors on June 9, 1983.
85.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a
commitment in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de
Desarrollo Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to
build a new international hotel. The second was a commitment in December
1977 to lend US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios
Panamenos, S.A., the first glass container factory in Panama.  These projects
have been satisfactorily completed. The third is a commitment in 1979 to
acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latino-americano de
Exportaciones 'BIADEX), a regional export bank promoted by the Government of
Panama.
131  Part III is the same as Part IV in the President's Report for the Panama
Structural Adjustment Loan, dated October 19, 1983.



- 28 -
86.       While there are some difficulties, satisfactory overall progress in
the implementation of ongoing projects is reflected in the steady increase in
Bank disbursements from US$17 million in FY79 and US$16.1 million in FY80, to
US$31 million in FY81, US$39 million in FY82, and US$39.7 million in FY83.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1983.
87.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's infrastructure and service industries, the diversification of
production and exports, and the rationalization of economic policies in order
to create the climate conducive to stimulating economic activity.
Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can make a special
contribution in terms of: (i) developing policies and institutions; (ii)
removing remaining infrastructure bottlenecks; and (iii) better utilizing the
country's natural resources, including its geographic location. In addition
to the proposed project, projects under active consideration for Bank lending
include the structural adjustment loan submitted for consideration with the
proposed project, a livestock project and a further power project.
88.       Both USAID and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have
invested substantial amounts in agriculture and social services (including
family planning in the case of USAID). Past lending patterns are likely to
persist, at least as regards the social services, because the Government
prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for these sectors, while utilizing
other assistance for projects which are expected to result in more Immediate
economic benefits. In addition to agriculture and social services, the IDB
is financing road construction, industry and telecommunications, sectors in
which it is likely to continue lending. The IDB also participated with the
Bank and bilateral and commercial sources in financing the Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project and is financing a rural electrification program. n
addition, USAID is lending for alternative sources of energy (other than
petroleum). USAID expects to continue its efforts in manpower training and
projects oriented toward environmental protection. USAID and UNDP are also
providing additional technical assistance to increase the planning capacity
of MIPPE and MIDA and to carry out additional studies to assist the
Government in its policy reorientation efforts.
89.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed was 6.2 percent at the end of 1982 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service was less than 4 percent in 1982. These
percentages are expected to increase slightly in the 1980s.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
90.       The project would support the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) to Panama, which is being submitted concurrently. The technical
assistance needs were identified during the preparation of the SAL, and Bank
financing was requested in April 1983. The project was appraised in June



- 29 -
1983 and negotiations were held in Washington in September 1983.
Dr. Menalco Solis, Minister of Planning and Economic Policy, led the
Panananian delegation. Annex III contains a supplementary project data
sheet.
A. Project Objectives and Description
91.       The proposed project aims at prc-iding the Government with the
necessary information and analysis for decision making in priority sectors in
support of its structural adjustment program as well as with the technical
assistance needed for the implementation of such decisions. The studies
would address policy options, medium term strategies for carrying out agreed
policies and the rationalization and strengthening of important public sector
agencies in priority areas of the economy.
92.       The project consists of the following studies and technical
assistance activities:
(a) Trade and price policies in the agricultural sector;
(b) Strengthening of agricultural institutions, including training;
(c) Effective protection in the industrial sector;
Cd) Actuarial, financial, administrative and managerial studies of the
Social Security Agency and technical assistance to strengthen it,
including staff training;
(e) Study of the Health System;
(f) Multi-modal Transport Study of Panama City-Colon Corridor; and
Cg) Other currently unidentified studies related to the Government's
structural adjustment program.
93.       In addition to the technical assistance to be financed under the
proposed project, the Government is receiving from and discussing with other
donors further technical support for its structural adjustment program. UNDP
is financing experts to assist NIPPE in strengthening its planning
capabilities, and IDB is financing an industrial sector survey and seeds
development project. TISAID has earmarked US$1.5 million to finance studies
of the Labor Code, the development of renewable energy resources, family
planning, agricultural planning and research, pricing policies of state
enterprises, and debt management. With IDB financing, the Pan American
Health Organization (PAHO) is initiating a study to identify clinic and
hospital construction needs throughout the country.
B. Bank Support
94.       The technical assistance from other donors described above will be
of considerable help to the Government in carrying out its structural
adjustment program. However, financing for the urgently needed studies and
institution building to be provided under the proposed project is not
available from other sources. Total UNDP allocation for Panama for the



- 30 -
five-year period 1983-1987 is only US$4.5 million and is fully committed.
Allocations from other donors are also limited and Government budgetary
resources for 1983 and 1984 are severely constrained (para. 21). The
Government has therefore requested Bank assistance in financing those
technical assistance activities, which would form an important input in its
policy making decisions.
C. Detailed Features
Studies in the Agricultural Sector
95.       The execution of the Government's medium-term economic strategy
implies the need for a fundamental change in agricultural policy which would
orient the sector towards higher productivity and output. To achieve this, a
number of important reforms have already been carried out, covering public
sector institutions in agriculture, the legislative framework, and pricing
and trade policy. However, further progress in the execution of this complex
program is considerably impeded by lack of knowledge, particularly concerning
the detailed options available and their likely consequences.
96.       The studies to be carried out may be divided iato two closely
interrelated areas: price and trade policy and the state institutions in the
agricultural sector. Until now, both policy instruments have been used more
to subsidize relatively inefficient import substituting activities rather
than stimulating production in areas where Panama's comparative advantage
lies (para. 73). Resource misallocation has, moreover, been reinforced by
concentration of price supports, subsidies and institutional support on the
least efficient producers. The studies would aim to develop specific and
detailed recommendations to enable the Government to reshape both state
institutions and price and trade policy in accordance with the priorities of
Its medium-term strategy. The work would commence as soon as possible after
loan effectiveness, and detailed recommendations should be ready by the end
of 1984. These could form the basis for future Bank project and non-project
loans.
97.       The principal objectives of the trade and price policy study would
be to define alternative policies for the agricultural sector in terms of
incentives, resource allocation, growth and cost. Recommendations would be
made regarding the desirable role and scope of activities of Government
intervention in agriculture with a view to promoting the use of Panama's
comparative advantages in the sector. In particular, the study would:
(a) review the cost effectiveness and be,'eiits (and identify the
beneficiaries) of current price policies for principal products,
such as rice, corn, beef, poultry, milk, beans and sorghum; and
analyze policies affecting trade of agricultural products (import
and export restrictions, licensing and quota system and other forms
of Government intervention in domestic and foreign trade). The
study would also include advice to the Government on the proposed
modification of the Agricultural Incentives Law (para. 79);



- 31 -
(b) make policy recommendations to reduce present market distortions and
provide incentives for increased agricultural production and exports
in products where Panama has its greatest comparative advantage;
recommend an appropriate intervention policy to ensure greater
medium- to long-term price stability and a reasonable level of
protection to domestic prods:cers from fluctuations in the world
market; and
(c) make recommendations concerning the implementation of the
consultants' findings.
It is estimated that this study would require six mn-months of consultants,
and would be concluded in approximately four months.
98.      The technical assistance related to public institutions would be in
r       two phases.  In phase one there would be a study to review the present role
of the principal institutions and to suggest the changes required to make
these entities more efficient instruments of the Government's new
agricultural policy. The study would be closely coordinated with the Trade
and Price Policies Study (para. 97), build up on its findintgs and
recommendations, and provide detailed and specific recommendations with clear
guidelines on how to implement them. These would include terms of reference
for the second phase. The specific objectives would be:
(a) to analyse in detail implications of the Government's new
agricultural policy and suggest the corresponding objectives and
strategies of the public institutions;
'b) to explore ways to reorient the principal state institutions in
agriculture to meet these objectives;
(c) to design a management system to direct and cocrdinate agricultural
institutional policy, including a body to do general policy analysis
and set objectives, procedures to translate these objectives into
measurable targets and systems to evaluate performance, analyze
results and take remedial actions;
(d) to assess existing programs to improve management capabilities in
agricultural institutions and recommend improvements;
(e) to review the alternative strategies for the state production
corporations; and
(f) to suggest an action program for implementing the study's
recommendations.
99.      Phase two would consist of direct technical assistance to implement
the agreed recommendations, including advice and staff training to enhance
the capacity for policy development and to improve management and
administration of the agricultural institutions. The proposed loan would
finance experts to assist in establishing a management system for the
agricultural institutions, including an in-depth study of the existing
management information systems (for government control of its institutions)
and assistance in improving these systems to allow better direction and
coordination of the public agricultural entities. The proposed loan would
also finance experts to advise the Government on divesting itself of those
entities or assets that the Government chooses to sell. This could include
asset valuations and market assessments.



- 32 -
100.      It is estimated that phase one would require 54 man-months of
consultant time and would be concluded by November 1984. Phase two would
require 78 man-months, and would commence as soon as possible after the end
of phase one. The time required for implementation would depend upon the
results of the phase one studies.
Effective Protection in the Industrial Sector
101.      An important step in the Government's relorm of Panama's industrial
incentive structure is the removal of quantitative restrictions on most
imports and their replacement by ad valorem tariffs.  Initially, a tariff
rate would be set for each product which would give an equivalent amount of
protection as the quota subject to a general limit of 100 percent ad valorem
(para. 61).  In some cases the extent and depth of the technical work
required to judge the appropriate level of initial tariff protection are
slight; in others, they are much more complex. Nearly all the products in
the first category are among the quantitative restrictions eliminated before
October 15, 1983. Most of the remainder are in the second category. The
purpose of the proposed technical assistance would be to provide direct help
to Government officials in estimating appropriate indices of nominal and
effective protection for relevant product categories. Estimates of nominal
protection require some direct comparisons of domestic and -world- prices due
to the past quantitative controls of a relatively significant number of
imports. The study would also propose programs to reduce the levels of
effective protection identifying the likely effects of the various
alternatives on particular activities and industries. When appropriate, this
would take the form of studies of particular firms and industries, and
adjustment processes. The studY would be closely coordinated with the
Industrial Sector Study being carried out by 1XICI, with IDB financing. It is
estimated that it would require 12 man months of consultant time, and should
be completed by the end of April 1984. Its findings would assist the
Government in the revision of the Industrial Incentives Law (para. 64).
Social Security and Health
102.      A central element in the Government's structural adjustment program
is a detailed review of all public sector entities with a vlew to improving
budgetary and institutional controls, and setting objectives consistent with
the overall thrust of the new strategy. Among such entities, the Social
Security Agency (CSS) is the most important in financial terms. The
objective of the proposed series of studies and direct technical assistance
is to enable the CSS to define its future obligations and their financial
consequences. The studies would provide a comprehensive diagnosis of the
projected situation of the social security system, particularly future
commitments for retirement pensions, medical care, and otber obligations, and
would recommend alternative ways to comply with them, as well as possible
strategies for implementation. The studies and technical assistance would
include a full independent financial analysis with actuarial emphasis; a
full actuarial evaluation, taking into account retirement provisions, age
structure of the population, coverage and investment policy; recommendations
for the appropriate legal framework for the CSS; and recommendations for
strengthening managerial and financial procedures. This component would
include financing for study/work tours abroad for officials of the CSS. It
is estimated that the financial analysis would require 36 man months, and the



- 33 -
other work 72 man months of consultant time. The studies are expected to be
completed before the end of 1984, although the training component may extend
beyond this date.
103.      An assessment of the future health obligations of the CSS would be
incomplete without also taking account of the economic and financial
situation in the health sector as a whole. Accordingly, a study would be
carried out to identify causes of waste in the Health System and make
recommendations for a more effective and economic system of health care. The
study would provide a diagnosis of and recommendations on: (a) the policies
and strategies of the sector; (b) the needs of health service users; (c)
health services available; and (d) resources available to provide these
services from the CSS, the Ministry of Health and the private sector, and
their utilization to determine the best way of increasing the efficiency,
effectiveness and equity of the public and private health systems with a view
to providing medical care economically. It is estimated that the study would
require 24 man months of consultant time and would be completed by the end of
1984. The consultants would coordinate closely with the work carried out in
the CSS and with the PAHO experts carrying out the Hospital Network Study
(para. 93). Both the PAHO and the proposed Bank-financed health studies
would be coordinated by a joint committee formed by the Ministries of Health
and Planning and the CSS.
Multi-modal Transport Study of the Panama City - Colon Corridor
104.      One of the objectives of the Government's mediumr-term economic
policy is to increase the benefits from the substantial assets that have
reverted to Panama under the Canal Treaties. One of the ways in which this
will be achieved is through the creation of an industrial-commercial complex
on both sides of the Canal (para. 49). For this an efficieut and economic
transport system is essential. The objective of the study is therefore to
determine the most economic use of the trans-isthmian transport alternatives
between Panama City and Colon, and make recommendations as to the appropriate
transport policy and transport inveitments for the Corridor, including:
(a)  The future economic role of alternative transport modes in the
Corridor;
(b)  The approximate scale of investments and organizational changes
required to enable them to fulfill that role (including possible
complementary investments in intermodal freight terminals and cargo
handling equipment);
(c)  How the Government may, if it so desires, divest itself of certain
assets (e.g., the railway) within the context of its Canal
Treaty obligations.
It is estimated that the study would require 16 man-months of consultants and
experts, and would be completed by the end of August 1984.
Further Studies and Technical Assistance
105.      Approximately US$0.4 million would be provided in the proposed loan
for further technical assistance needs related to the Government's structural
adjustment program and to implement the agreed recommendations of the above
mentioned studies. Amongst other activities, further assistance may include
integrating and improving the information systems of MIPPE, the Office of
Statistics and the Treasury.



- 34 -
D. Project Organization and Implementation
106.      Under the general supervision of the Vice Minister of Planning and
Economic Policy, the Director of the Office of Economic and Social Planning
in MIPPE, as Project Coordinator, would have overall responsibility for
project implementation and coordination. He would be assisted byu a panel of
economicst on the technical aspects of project work including review of the
different reports and studies prepared under the project; making policy
recommendations to the Minister of Planning and economic Policy and to the
other Ministries and institutions as appropriate; and taking the necessary
actions towards implementation of agreed recommendations. On the
administrative and logistical side, the Project Coordinator would be assisted
by a Project Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). A candidate who is fully
acceptable to the Bank has already been selected as Project Manager. The
Government would appoint consultants and experts with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In view of the complexity of the proposed project and the large
amount of contracts it would generate, MIPPE has agreed in principle with the
Office of Projects Execution of UNDP (OPE) to act as agent for the Government
in the hiring of the consultants and experts and in servicing their
contracts. Employment of such an agent wouli be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Loan Agreement (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
107.      Satisfactory arrangements for each study, including the appointment
of counterpart staff in the beneficiary agency, would be reviewed by the Bank
prior to the appointment of the respective consultants and experts (Section
3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to ensure continuity and
commitment and reduce costs, the counterpart staff would be fully involved in
carrying out the studies. Terms of reference for th studies have already
been agreed between the Government and the Bank. The consultants' contracts
would include specific timetables for the completion of different phases of
their work. The proposed project including the studies and other technical
assistance activities is expected to be completed by mid-1986. Annex III
contains an implementation schedule of the studies.
108.      The Project Coordinator would send to the Bank quarterly progress
reports. In addition, progress of the studies would be monitored by the Bank
during regular supervision missions, in conjunction with the supervision of
the SAL. The Government would consult with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations of each study financed under the proposed project and prepare
plans of action for the implementation of agreed recommendations (Section
3.05(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, and consistent
with the Government's commitment to its structural adjustment program, the
Government intends to consult regularly with the Bank on the progress of
other studies financed by USAID and IDB in support of this program and to
communicate to the Bank their interim and final reports (para. 93). The Bank
would also maintain active consultation with these agencies to ensure proper
coordination of the studies and their consistency with the proposed project's
studies, and avoid gaps or unnecessary duplication of efforts.
Project Cost and Financing
109.      Total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$6.7



- 35 -
million equivalent, including an amount of approximately US$0.4 million
to meet additional services not fully identified at present. Price
contingencies have been calculated at the rate of 8 percent in 1984 and 7.5
percent annually thereafter. The foreign exchange cost of the project is
estimated at approximately US$4.5 million equivalent. The project would be
exempted from taxes and duties.  It is expected that approximately 300
man-months of consultants work would be required, including a smal1 number of
local consultants. The average cost of recruited consultants and advisers is
estimated at US$12,000 per man month. The beneficiary agencies would provide
about 280 man-months of counterpart stafftime, which is Included in the total
cost of the project as part of the Government's contribution.
110.      The contracting of consultants and experts would be carried out by
UNDP/OPE, on behalf of the Government, according to Bank guidelines.
Procurement of goods--US$250,000 for office equipment, materials and
vehicles--would be carried out by UNDP/OPE on the basis of quotations from at
least three reliable suppliers.
111.      The proposed loan would finance 74 percent of total project cost.
This represents the foreign exchange cost of the project, including the
front-end fee and US$400,000 equivalent towards project management, plus an
estimated US$500,000 of local expenditures for consultants. Financing of
local cost is justified in view of the Government's budgetary austerity
during the short period of project implementation and the important support
the project gives to the Government's structural adjustment program. The
Government would provide US$1.8 million of local cost, representing the cost
of the panel of economists, counterpart staff, office space, equipment and
materials, local travel and back-up services. Retroactive financing of up to
US$200,000 equivalent is recommended for expenditures made after October 1,
1983 to meet the costs necessary for the early start up of consultants'
services. Disbursements would be fully documented and made against 100
percent of total cost of consultants and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for training/study tours, project management and equipment and vehicles and
80 percent of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles imported but
procured locally.
Accounts and Audit
112.      MIPPE would establish and maintain acccunt3 for all project
expenditures under the proposed loan in a clearly identifiable manner
(Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  Such accounts std supporting
records would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within four months
after the end of the year (Section 4.02(b) of the dtaft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
113.      The technical assistance provided under the proposed project would
support the Government's structural adjustment program and the proposed SAL.
The studies and their recommendations wo'*ld assist the Government in
implementing its medium term strategy. The technical assistance to the
agricultural institutions would help reorient and strengthen them with a view
to executing the Government's new policies for the sector. Assistance to the
CSS should enable it to put its finances on a sound basis and follow
accounting, actuarial, financial and investment management practices which
should ensure its continued financial viability.



- 36 -
11-..     Delay in appointment of consultants and experts could jeopardize
timely implementation. The appointment of UNDP/IPE as contracting agent for
the Government would provide adequate assurance against such risk. Agreement
in principle has already been reached between the two parties, and selection
of consultants has been initiated. The Director of Economic and Social
Planning in MIPPE would be in charge of project coordination, assisted by a
panel of economists and by a Project Manager in charge of administrative and
logistical matters. In view of the uncertain political background, there is
a risk that the agreed recommendations of the studies would not be
imnplemented. However, there is a widespread recognition that the present
institutional framework, particularly in the areas covered by the proposed
studies, needs to be changed to meet the challenges of a more difficult
economic environment.  In view of this, and of the Government's strong desire
to carry out the studies, the risk is considered acceptable. In order to
ensure continuity and commitment, staff of individual agencies would be fully
involved in the consultants' work. Progress of the studies would be closely
monitored.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
115.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Satisfactory arrangements with an appropriate contracting agent for the
appointment of consultants and experts would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Loar- kgreement (para 106).  Special conditions of the loan
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
116.      1 an satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMWENDATION
117.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 19, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 37 -                                               ANE I
TAILS                                           mm I of 7
PAXAM- SOCKS  MIMMOSS MU SIsCs
AaMAR&                             man-  afps (MTii  AURA=) 13
USsr                    cUs? RwEeNT £sTDAIR)o lb
196O~      197(¢ ESTNAT8~    LA?. AIUstrKcA4CAEI              IncaN
mm (OSAND. ono
-OAL                              77.1       7.l        77.1
ICULTRU.RL                        14.7       17.0       17.4
CyP M chAm  CMSS)                   360.0      760.0      90.0             208Z.2                 2453.6
ml-nrxw VW cAPI
(xLCRAIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     418.0     2793.0      1U3.0            1407.6                  1580.8
UOPE.AMI A VETSL STATISfICS
POPULAT'Of.lID-EAR. CraHOSAISS)   1095.0   166.0       1877.0
UIRAN POPMLATWN C( OF TOTSL)      41.3       47.7       55.0              6s.9                    47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPLATION IN TEA  2000D (laLL)                         2.6
sTaTIN     POPULArIoN (lULL)                            5.0-
YEAR STATIONA  POP. IE                                20
POPULATUIO DENinIT
PER SQ. ER.                     14.2       19.0       23.8              35.6 SR.
PER SQ. KW_ ACKI. LAND          74.5   U 6.4          105.8             93.2                   l57.2
POPULATIO AGe SrECCZURE (Z)
0-16 iRS                       ".0        43.4         9.6              40.1                   31.9
15-6 TRS                        51.8       52.9       56.2              5s.8                    60.9
65 AND ARMWE                     4.2        3.7        4.2 *.1                                   7.2
POPMLATION ctHI RATE CZ)
TOTAL                            2.8        2.9        2.3               2.3                     1.6
RBANg                            4.3        4.4        3.6               3.7                     3.4
CDE SIMRI RATE (PER TOlS)         60.7       36.6       30.1              31.5                    25.0
CRUDE DEaI RATE (PERt TROlS)      10.2        7.6        5.4               8.1                    9.1
GRoSS REPRODUCroW RAE              2.8        2.5-       1.9               2.0                     1.7
FAIIENY FLAUFUI
ACCEPrORS, AMAL CT(O)             ..       15.5        1S.OIe
USERS CZ OF HAIED  W              _.         ..       5s4.0 
1ODEX or FOOD PROD. TER CAPI
W(5971-lua)                       8l8_0      94.0      lOS O             113.0                   103.4
PE CAPmrA SOLY CW
CALORIES C- oF REQIU _NK)     107.0      106.0       103.0            111.3                   129.6
PROTES (cGAMS E DAr)            61.0       61.0       61.0              67.9                   92.3
OF  HIICM A10AL AMD PULSE      27.0       30.0        33.01.           34.1                    34.6
;HLD (AGES 1-4) DATH RATE          5.5        2.3        0.5               5.3                   10.4
LIFE  PECr. AT 1IRTH (!EA)        62.2       66.1       70.7              64.6                    67.2
INWAISr H. IU.E (PER TidOli)      67.6      4*.9        21.2              62.6                   71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER C!POP)
TOTAL                           46.2       69.0       64.6              6.8
URBN                            89.5      100.0       94.7              77..
RURAL                            9.6       41.0       69.3              ".3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
ZTOTL                             ..     - 76.0       89.0              54.6
URB                               . .      87.0       97.6              69.8
RURL                              ..       69.0       80.5              29.8
POPULATION PER PUISICIAN        2730.0     1580.0      980.0            1776.0                 1094.8
POP. VER URSINC PERSO           3460.0      550.0      420.0f           10122                   762.5
POP. PER HOSPrrAL BED
TOML                           260.0      330.0       250.0            477.0                   336.0
URBAN                          lW8.0z    290.0       190.01.           667.5                  2t6.0
RURFAL                            ..      1580.0     1130.07          1921.6
ADISSIOS PERt HOSPITAL              ..       26.0       21.0/c            27.2                   20.0
AVERA  SIZE Or HSENULD
TOMAL                            4.7        5.0        5.0
URBAN                            4.4        4.6        4.5
RURAL                            4.9        5.2        5.6
AVERACE NO. OF PEMSONSI0
OaL                              2.4        2.2
uRBAN                            2.1        1.6
RURAL                            2.6        2.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF DUELLINGS)
TOTAL                           44.0       52.4
URBA                            82.7       90.4
RURAL                           11.3       16.0



- 38 -
AMNEX I
T AIL z 36                                           2  of  7
-                     - 5SOCIL IDAS D     6A 4 V 2?
PSUMA                       -P     =Mrs (UZinI wna.mm) to
3057                   (COST KECOT ESTUfA) lb
r t~~m. e .csinzozm1
1960       1970A  KSTlAmT    ELAT. Al  cCA                      m
ADJUST EULNEN  RAZOS
sR.MffW   TorAL                 95.0       106.0      113.0             105.0                  102.2
KWE                   98.0      10B0        115.0             106.3                  107.2
}Lt                   %94.0     103.0       111.0             103.6                   97.9
SEUADRT: LOTL                   29.0       39.0        65.0              60.0                   S6.5
MALE                  Zb.0       37.0        61.0              383.6                  63.
FTKLE                 31a        41.0        69.0              *1.2                  46.3
VOCATIGOL CZ OF SEWUDX)           27.5       32.3        23.2              34.0                   22.6
POL-TEAUCER AIO
stNARf                          29.0       27.0        27.0              30.7                   24.7
Sec0UDh                         23.0       21.0        21.0              16.7                   22.1
ADILT LITExA= RATE C?)            73.3        76.3       U6.6              79.5                   69.7
%NUCION                                                                                                                         C
?ASSMIA CARS/TIUSAIW POP          16.1       31.1        61.4/0            45.6                   52.
RADI RECEZVERS/THOUSAND POP      163.9       157.1      155.3-            22L.2                  165.5
Tv RECEIVE fLO SA3D ?OP           10.0        97.0      119.9             10.3                  126.2
DSPAPEt (-DAILY GENERAL
IMMEST-) C1UCMATOW
PER TOaSAD M POPMATMS            86.9        38.3       82.5              66.1                   96.3
CIMR  AUSL ATUAIJCCA                ..        4.7          ..               2.9                    2.9
TOA LAM  FOUR  (T0W5)            359.0       501.0      654.0
3ZHALE (PISCE)                  21.1       25.9        Z5.l              24.8                   34.5
ACRILTRE (PERCENT)              50.9       41.6        27.3              31.3                   60.7
iUSTRY (PIVeST)                 13.7       16.0       1ILl               23.9                   23.A
PARICIPATIOR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTL                            32.8        34.2       36.B              31.3                   62.0
MALE                            50.6       49.6        50.6              69.8                   55.Z
FERALE                          16.2        18.1       18.4              14.3                   29.1
::306I DEPIDESCY RATIO             1.5        1.4         1.3               1.6                    0.9
rUESI D151INUENS
PERCENt OF PRIVATE rNCO?M
sIroEST 5r OF OUSEHOLDS           ..       22.1
KIGE? 20% OF LDUSE,S              ,.        61.S         .                 .
LIEST 202 OF ROMSEuuOLS            .         2.0                  .                               .
LOWT 402 OF uOISEIS               *-         7.2
ESTDNATD ARSCLUTE POVERTY IrCUE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
ua1                                ..        ..       39.0f             23S.S
RURAL                                                 L8. 3.07r         186.5
ESTD4ATED R0ATIVE POVERTS I1COME
LEVEL (IISS PER CPMA)
UR                                ..         ..       442.0/f           519.8
RURAL                             ._         ..       237.07            372.1                  609.0
ESTOIATiD POP. BELCI ABSOLUTE
POVERTY I    LENO19  (2)
URBAN                             ..         ..        21.0/f
RURAL                             ..         ..        30.07 
NrOT AVTALA.e
OT APPICAU.E
1O T E S
la Tbr group aretage  for each indicator are popnlatiou-twght.d arItmtltc man. Covr-e of c  trSoee awl tl.
indicators depends on avalleblUtr of data at La not tafors.
/b  Unless otherwiae note-. Data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dat ftor 1970 betw<n 1969 Had
1971; and data for -ost Riecet Estlt=W betwan 1979 and 1951.
/c  1975; Id 1976; /a 1977; If 11178; & 1562.
nu 1983



-39  -Aumfl 1
atertiam CW SOCIA. imICUMtS
eatt-, Ub-.at  the dt are date  Er- retre  gatrIllr ]sA,d the -- aettieaS  eiba  Itaa- .he.5   anti they WY -  he                                           -wIaSattaett
-tatwct.Sa  ke t.c(the bat at ctsedarI-  datiatlse  adceraa  Wad by ilfaEPI-                   r      te -ateeI-D  the dee.  aW do.aIsPt,atem     sa    ta
dearihe eade  a  asgtae.   i-tte. itSa. ad atctratenet   ajat dlen    ttseeaetia
.he rItereae arcs, -   CZ) chas.        erery-ea at th  asijet --etey sd (2) a s-Mtcy  raspLcbm.a   hiaht avar  te  thea the setey ga-P  at th.
tabJats sat  (c-sPs far -Uah LeaaaC  MI  eprAercls  flee   ltlddit bama  Wet  PMrts P5  Madiii  9-t  La theec  bet-a  a strae  Wet.a
T.itta) i the ret-ae     arc.. data ftc.accc ar  peateti   eights artchette  -r  tar csh ledlete  aM st a-ty sas -jeity ad the aasteis  leeP
ger bat data far that ftaltat_r   Mac Obe rae.s atectris  .as Ch. tatar  dapas  -  the aeiahttga  data ad  Ian   ttla.6 ehs- -at he
e_rt.   I  rela-itta   ertee           Wte.  t-ashr  Tetattaa   r                   y -.C.&tI    esparItf the i-talc .1 -   teiatar at    et   ant  hel. nay P
- Tta carfar  are  -anrIat   Lad  rsadLamed -c-a; ItO.                                 fhiia   rlta    r         ethabat at -esaraty i-.e.
ITur   Sm    aa.Ptita                                                                                      rai.a rtese -Fafeat  as dIvid4 by --r a! Prattirt
krltmatt - bunt~ at sattte               ea   cd  -eprstiy Sr p---PL1ci                      eta       isitftdt  et               Laeeta  eaa  Fettle.! rae   ad
tUt pd 9, ata.                                                                       Psecatt. atheaittilad-rtd-!,ctt.. aItel -  a1e0tic (-te!
ace*a    nai= l  Stte  -r their -bpttac "  --I     hepia  b
tsalidr- an-a tes   -attd - V-14 ask At.. tiP?7-11t b-aSe)                                reMbahttittta   matte. bepitala ar aetabtiLefPLa Parc-ay at.! ld
ti0.lde i9n. mE 15  dta                                                                      by- att.at -   spb"aiet. 1aaabltcha--a prehets, pattiplty tred!.
car  a :   W aSad.         .ea h-Pica..~ at      . I-L."a hasi. ad
1MPG) afSuPTtS PO CspiTA - sac-PI aprrte  caasata at ertta                                      -diel    tr         p-rccctt  easEl  by a phyeel.1  Cha by a MAId."
rtts.eYeceriald -iata.Pettites   asea.I -a  ad tyir                   -. tte                   ait.  tc,aie. eta.) fit.h etfat le-ctisa  aewtaa
a.d W-.at.rca  et-Uatet) 1a hil1trar  at -cc  etaWLiat War -pet.;                             Peeetda - ititd t"M cI adlat tc1tliitaa   Pat ntittalec  payer-e
til. 1970. ad 19W isis"- tl  hapiflia baed a--4   M                                                                        rMP  iteaas  taepit5a, ad tet
heapteata  in-l - nes  heeptAi ad  -ALesL aS asecySete
POPaLCSrT   AI  me.A SrcunaC                                                                   sptixeatattate  a  tet-I.     ey cedar tat..
i.t. .PPp--iIiie-rlc -cade  - ha at S.ti 1; tt9O. 1970, ad 1911                            adlattt  ar  e-at  a" - Mea-1                a ab Ttassatas    datapte
dat.E-                                                                                               ti   dirtie  by the ante at na..
Iftet   aett   te-recec at t-ra) - Katie it? as-tataPsia"ttea
teaS   raaaMa.                                                                           -    aacta.        st-aa 1a   stis.    n   r    aLt  pte
ft=      --  ~ISW    O h5p  s-A ert  ettlaetet.saehsS-  iS                                  ad their asia  .aa-  A WPMria  ar hiatt e. -  lY-  he teIsiti Ia
~iii    i Wa ,as-  -  .5 ett          - ar flty ad tecetliy                       the tasaheid tat ateletea  paPsa.
rae    rjrtt-sctte  a   aratyta.  cra- m                       teaeare.  taretpats a   res  Pats!,-tet-  ad  es  e.aWa  ..
1-eal  ---esK M.t -aPa -T. at  ealth teereete  attn sasty. Par                           atptIptte  eeiehs   dre  atetd  aeaea
aepca   e .. tct as Etest  life aepetay Pttbluaftt  at 772%                           dsailaaa. rae-titey.  healtat  Ptelci  atpae   etrette-- ad
yae.theprmtr  tee f-    -iy   e  sin bat  h-a I-".                                    carptdpae
s--lsa datlia  it fer1tilt  eesetdte        team  tent as pt t-aay                     Aete. Wataersr  C aaeta  taiaci-tta.ats,a2rn
PIs-Jft P-I -aaa.  lath te-Te  is the ...Ies-4 inte  tease ala                           hSattae  aetlar  etc  Ptcret   c  i.qaaa       are
ra.baatse  PT  -11t-ir   d fcttilttr treed  Lcr aetjartSa ParPet                         aT tetat  acs., ad ra-L  Wrtla epateteatr
Sestar   eaatc      ta.atesyprle  then L. - ir--h
aere te brt  rae t aw bc the-cat  rate  a-S site thW,e                       in
esracete pcate rateare.ThIs L. arbtted eay atte  teetitty                       AletetI               "t
baieeaa   r-PIa--a  Icte  at ott uit reredctte  rate flee                                                            P=ar   dtt-fte.et   dta     - Gr-e  tate!,eate a   fats
re.gstate  at -s rerars  tr.at  ceetr-  the star-at                                      tae s   aall W.. at tea raie             les -    era-tPEP.1 S  mpeati
pepdalats  tIes   - eitet -  the baste aF the prejet.a Cbattle-pets.  sahee-aae  wpaptiat ; esseally tetint theis4.                                          bail~
taco atst`     apbta  Sc the rea 20. ea  hert  at aIzn et                                    -a  hfl adjeat   tar di! ene  lereth  at V"ieY tiata; MI
tacilty  at  r rereassatIna                                                                teetIa. cith -miasa  Setat-e esal               e  tree   IN   ree
Tea  -taIsar  terl-tac it reached   .   Fhe  eridateatisY                                     -a         pap1ie ac balee -hr  the at! lets!.  .-t spa.
rp.sL5tce  eta  tIL he re-d-i                                                             Saeae    rha  - es- at   d   se. - C--F--  s ahi;  eate
ta   t  e    td.yaar pepsiatie  Per eesr hILeste  tim  Isatea) at                     pralid  atrte. etea2 tr-eraaaieItAts   tar
llfjjs   tl. t9ilt. a   19  dat.                                                     psptt. scatt  at 12 -  17 F-ac  at sa; aaea Psdan             ea
her reWe   aiatellc   C.arata4 a- thre  tar aglalr At               d                      geaLely mist.6.
asly; ares, tsr. cad Ire. asia.                                           tarettesel eaddre~ C,  2WW -M-Tisat teena P at ~ accadrv  .LP- Vaaiae  teatittace
Parisis    -d -Eratar  deats7t-  C.dea   C-iperl raabi-age Ci)W Seld  stat.!.  iednrts . Cetrper   hrtaaetiat
etattse Gte. tarn  ad twit dAte                                                    Prtttateai  - priest  adcete- Tate! atadest eatafd Ia
fteesatie  Cre.. hPte C P-ea) - ta-e  -  ..-aL aertt rats at t..   eLd-                      Petaa, at asade  iat.. divIded by ataca at teter  e h  te
Taslti  C-%at  Pate  ""tes"   . as.  acal arh ralat aT sets                                 Malt lterar  rae  nrcs  - lterte .Scite CsHtt he rac  ad tile)
pPP"atseta  te-t.us-I. ad  970-R.                                                          a  atao       aa  sar pepltlr  ead 15 yeat  -d  mar
trad  aet  Pate. (ra     --eac)   A. aas tIs  bir-h  per thead at aid-
eapsittea  lil. iWO. ac  tIta data,                                                        tasstt             =Vls wte    a =h pt-s;arls.aXarZ: hat..a
Crat heyye test. - A_Wtra  7ter at dasaiter  a    sali bea  it                               atitary rehilee.
tirls -Li              i~ePettd itat - aceaemetes aa-saLfiefat f                                 treter   .C-r t--ase   -teats    AL alt    - aT retat   teeesA
taetlity ret-;  -as1y fla-year-.4 an Lcr =etEe  1a i. 1910. adtrarat  ta Xaaeri petite par therse  at papsletis  tetledae
teL                                                                 itecarad~~~~~~~~~~~~19-    mier  it rain   ad 1e 7as-a Sa cat Prs  S rai
tesis  taeiae- irseer..  eallth~aat)    hcaler   t atepat-at   sa  h etai dat  far eraet pa-e -r cct he trearbla ti                           - at
af atpt-te.trc  itaite   asar Lc-tt W atas-taa  faLtl   p~ins,emte abelshe  Lt-UcSa.
et-ras~                                                        It tareteare (t,r ehast   as Ltea    TV9rclrr   a  bals
47st Mistit  - ther  (L.rtee  at tented  sasS - Pre a at rantd                               aarlpteprth -fpait   : en2t  etise   TV  eir
.4a at rtidher.  ate czs:-k'  erE-             btt-eeptdaie  tet  eareeai  se y                                    rtersrair  PT T. area as  ScL. at
ati aerted  m     . ii   nateae                                                             estrCreat.(a  eess   csatt  - Mes  te  aea
AoSP am.enreaa                                                                                tpr Ca is   tatr L eae  tarra-   ttpa,dtia -- peradea
lad.      tasirdaet. pr  arteEeiec  se' -ma. t  ercaIt                ebtir  ta  d-ec-a  -rtrLy te   -inda  atrl*..i  a                     dr
eaaL  Rrdriaeralte         .iaitt.  reedertie   arS .Wea Ps                             fte he adaii  it it appas  at Le-e  tsa  elas a 
f.5 sad I. ea eatesWar ya b-te. (Wdltie    mar Pelst 4-le  ea.-                          tine   At-al  tase    ear t eP-a par  -ea  B."ae   -a se  e-r at
sagrra  aecee  at area) ^dic  a-  edible sa4 retate esats. (e.-m                           tiec  -aad drtat the yea.  Wait,aaicat deic-le IaI n as
rafts Si -  ar  -aiit)  Afla5er pr=icte  at eac  mary ie                                   sUrnit.
date-                                                                    Ins.  ma~~~~~~CpWt-1               Z.. -L7-1-PI-.&-.&
d.y.     liebte sptiee emplte daseati  preietta. lapert  tetpasa-   at el  sa                                             d%-.batir  Ia  -E-e tasri   ec
repras as abaese  I. atPck. Sat sappits  -wiS- att       tea, reds                         tesarie;Lilt, 197t as4 tat date
i     -ttta  a   t  tad pe-aceta. 55 ites   Us dta-ebstl-                             ryj-        j- c      l    eber lees a parstear at Cna  later trs-
-aaracerr   stistad by FMo h-ea  ta ptyI.1eatCAt aced. far   - acs.ES                      1    My4nfl  Labar terr  is team. feetray. bots, -ad
actvIy ad health ra14ieres  aetecttsa  t.rttae                 y setbt,                       iais  -ertaaaets                 hrtret1.tilt ad LOU1 dAte
Pa. ad -   itatrlbsite  at paPalattee. aS sLI-[tt  it P.r-a  far set                         Sae   prat     ae   esI aleir, e--teatir. atte
it                   st heteabai..Wd ie-e!  39hZ-h!, 397  ad tie. data                                            arM-rtiet.  ea   55ga    pertetta  eT lest Lake ls_: l91oo
heresiteanic  aeea(ea.ttSa _.)  tes tet  rcsa  a! par rpet                                     t97t -a  tact date
ret   pir  t ta   perday.at eppF at led i .deltas Wt ate.                       Pbt   Iietis   tae(ett.ea.,re                      - idtal - Fstielp.tts pa
VeAirmets farat america etahie     by lis  p-ende tar stee-                                 Ptliyalsaaeaa        ae.   hea ltetaeracss
aflamec at hO arm  S  espFlse. ptt day  d20 arm  et steel -d                               P-r..stetas :f tea. ala-P FP-1t.astt         .L paiae   at l eas rrPattlm
pats- . p  I'tl , at teEth    W-ar   th-lad he a;t..1 nettle.  lbea                        1%C, 1970. Iad tilt date, These  a  head - Ug. parftIpmiple  rat
W-cdard - eneatr bsa th- Pt 71 arm  atta  P--L.t sad 23ir                                 rat It-erre  ec    atarer  a  th  tsslte. ad in tier tee..-
at st-1 pestat  -a m snesa  tar the earl. eeae  by ItO  I the                              !aa estast   a  lrm ahea: astt
th%ied Weld Feed is-ael 19bi-h. til9 et Ce date.gooattc   atidaa   -ftte  U."riS   t _paPslei  Siec LS ad hi ad-a-
Paf  eee  atce   aelme   stasl tam          en-Peea  rarel  at tad                           tn   sa  thrfr.IP
Cthid       1 ae  -) har  Pat  tea  thetad  - is ta 4-atb  pe tbti-te  ii                                         [.-itr    Ie   (heth  Ia tee.ah   t ied)  laetadby itehet I
ac   r    -h yers oe ite . ie  .t ag Ras; tar scat deItspltm                          terc-. etPaha  itP-re. pseas itt para. aS fleecest 40 paa-t at
teerradta der-ad rr_  tire t.bl-; Mos. iit -1 tiel date.                              hembtada..
italic  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~PEtiTTl  TIaO? asPi
*U?   feartat  t Mth  nae)    etasaant  care-,-   a Pt LIfe  assa               * -l.i                    art new- aprealast ter            P. prel lcIc. sWe
at berth; 1,50. 1910 55 1951 date.                                   bash  he tet-p-ete  sIt. eareItraie  atta
it_a  heeir   acf a   tsed  :tac  deth  at- tat-er  .s   -                                tat 1ee   Sela  Pat-te  teres  t-I CtSi pr ret).sl   dta
yaataep   teaat liar tlrthe   ut,- iladiidt.                                        A"eLsi psate  tea         -Laa  is the  lea  hea  bale ~RaS a alair
rcea  heta tete  (Peete  arEtltei-cstera,e    et- TatVtarit'ca'""l iWta 'lse  -asaIt ra-fad rea-ras ic sa
ester sefI7 Ciarlsis  treaed fs.-e eser a  s tret   barIteaSaitetPretr    ae  (iii Par es.ies) - ethe  ad tea
te -iseta    strath-b     htat.reacedhtsaat frw,sa                                    eetrisnpsry  em  ca  h  attir   tarreepr-et
saitr  al)    peeca  athirI  tpaaeapeti-tl-P.  t. -                                   ra.-La  me-   C the carte.  tabsJ.-ai L. derid lreathr real
steeat  apati  tsesi  e  eadce  trse   -  a-n eke 253I att                            len   itttt 1 -ilstc  tee etcher te'at el 1 , Mc -teeers
tea    hm   seh  rsateada  ble  itei  rtaeatearra  1  le    le.aedPaetis   at  aass   _.Errr .                e  rat(rrst     a
hem.   . res  are   macsble aine a..-dispi  tt b. thehaeet e-sd te                      t - ar-s  Pl                   P       Iceia  sbca   rtl   t      i
eaat   t hetameiLd 5. arntacchadt.trca- w- ast   p rta
tea day I. ltbiegth  f-Iciy    mIttea
Acras  rter-=    Otapem1 I rarea  et_ ersIle   - -tet. aie, as
are   - Mte  at cert  iI-rL. ses,  dtet  atte   hr srat
et.pcs1 -- pecersta  f th1i reptnPayelti-c  teeret  dltpes
ear tacid  the c.u-,tec-d diatp-L. .5th -  elihec  iraae. at                                                                  ta s   d  tLa  he. tiiet
ha aerat  ad  me-te-at  by -.cr.hb             -- enta  at t  - cas  Pli                                                 teats  -Laycta a   Prejetie   thpeteaa
raictta ad siallar lataliat tees                                                                       hey t~~~~~~~~~~Ila



- 40 -
AlE I
P   4 of 7
fal Aml, Grwth Rate ()
T to                               OllSon1 D$Ac  Ptuld
at Current
19B2     1978   1979   1980   1981   19821/  1983   1964   1985   190
N1G
Gass  st1c Product                 4,227.6      9.8    4.5    5.3    3.8    4.0      0.0    3.5    5.0      5.1
Agdazln                            428.7      7.8  -4.2   -1.9    2.9    4.4        0.0    2.4    3.5     3.5
lalatry ad Htrd                    422.0      1.6   11.0    4.4  -2.4    5.4        2.5    5.5    7.5     8.2
coustrxt1m                         371.9    38.9    0.0   23.6   11.6   17.3    -4.6    3.5    5.0    5.1
SeNkc                             3,005.0     9.2    5.6    4.9    6.1    2.1       0.3    3.3    4.9     4.7
rmmmi±fmi                          3,285.6    14.0   -0.1    1.4  -0.6    4.3         2.0    8.1    7.4     5.3
1,169.1    12.3   15.3    1.8   15.0    2.5   -18.2    0.2    0.4       4.0
qp2Orts Of CO5                      1,663.8     4.4    6.6   3D.7    4.8    4.6     -1.6    1.9    2.7      5.3
liwts of GNFS                      1,890.9     14.7    2.6   17.9    1.3    4.0    -9.4    9.3    5.3    5.D
G0aP  (1962.100)                     100.0    71.50  79.45  88.55  95.50 100.00   105.50 111.83 118.54  166.26
ExhmW Rate (Pl    per US$)             1.0      1.0    1 o   1.00   1        1.00     1.00   1.00   1.      1.00
aeof GDl at  lbret Pdes (2)            hara Ammml Incum  (Z)
(at O.rent pdrs)                       (at gtmnt 19682 Frc)
1970    1975    198     1985    1990       L970-75   1975-80  1-85  19E5-90
Grss  ctic Prluut              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        4.7       5.9      3.4      5.1
AVIa lixe                      14.6    11.2    10.2    9.9    9.1           1.2       2.3     2.6      3.5
--!ar adNinhI                   12.7    13.0    10.6   10.7    12.3         3.0       4.0      3.6      8.2
0mitrtxio                        6.7     8.2     7.6     8.4     8.4        7.3       5.5      6.3      5.1
crrves                         66.0   67.6    71.8   71.0    70.2          5.5       4.7      3.1      4.9
0xImutim                        75.5   76.5    77.4    84.7    85.4         4.6       4.2      4.2      5.3
(koes I1vewt                    27.8   30.9    25.4   20.9    19.8          6.0       0.2      0.1      4.0
EVrtrof QEGS                   .38.0   47.0    47.9    36.3    37.5         3.8       8.9      7.5      5.3
1u=s ofE COS                    41.4   54.3    51.6   41.9    42.7          4.6       5.0      4.4      5.0
Pralimmy



- 41 -
P;ij5 of 7
PAWIA - EUXTEAL TRADE
Amount                              AnnuaL Growth Rates ()
NtMI= USS at                          (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                      Actual                                            Projected
Indicators                       1978             1978      1979     1980      1981     198Z                1983      1984      1985     1986
EmL TRADE
Merchandise Exports fob       370.3             11.2       3.5      5.7       7.3     -7.1                 -1.2      3.5       6.6      10.0
Primary                     135.5              3.6       3.2      0.3      -3.4      1.5                  7.1      4.4       4.7      0.9
Manufactures & other I/     234.8             23.0       3.8      19.4    -16.4    -23.2                -5.6       2.9       7.7     15.5
Merchandise bIports fob       853.8             13.3       3.6      8.1      -0.2      5.7                -9.2       9.1       5.2      5.1
Petroleum 2/                219.2             -4.0      11.9    -14.1    -14.9      -7.2               -10.0       1.5       3.0      3.0
_        Machinery and Equipment      188.8             32.9      -6.6     15.6      14.2      7.1               -15.0       1.0       1.5      4.0
Manufactures                356.2             31.6      -4        9.4      -1.1       7.2                 2.0      8.1       7.5      5.3
Others                       89.6            -39.0      2Z.4     45.6       9.2      17.5              -26.4      35.6       7.7      9.4
PRICES
-      Export Price lad.x                              100.0    115.5    118.2    118.4    114.8                  111.9    114.8    118.8    123.9
import Price Index                             100.0    121.3    126.6    136.9    134.7                  132.1    135.5    141.1    151.9
Term of Trade Index                            100.0      95.2     93.4      86.5     85.Z                 84.7     84.7      64.2     81.6
Composition of Merchalase Trade CZ)                            Averge Annual Increase (C)
Cat current   ces)                                        C. .sr1o n17pr7 ce )
1960             1970     1975      1980     1985            1960-7D     1970-75  1975-80   1980-85
Exports                         100.0            100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0               n.a.         N.A.      2.5       1.8
Primry                         73.9             74.2      44.6     39.0      40.6             n.a.         a.-.      1.3       3.5
other. 11                      26.1              6.0      55.4     61.0      59.4             n.-.         n.s.      2.8     -8.1
Imorts                          100.0            100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0               n.a.         n.a.      7.5      2.1
Petroleum                       9.9             19.0      34.4     31.1      24.2             n.n.         n.-.    12.1      -4.7
Machinery £ Equipment          22.1             27.5      29.0    -19.4      19.3             u.s.         n.a. .    9.8       1.7
Others                         68.0             53.5      36.6     49.5      56.5             n.S.         n.a.      5.9       5.3
Share of trade vitrh                   Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Idustril Countries CZ)                Developing CountriLe  CZ)              Capital Surpin0 Oil Exporters C2)
1960     1970      1975     1980      1960     1970      1975     1980       1960     1970      1975     1990
DWECTION OF TEASE
Exports                     99.0      89.6     74.8      79.0      1.0      10.4      Z4.6     20.0        0.0      0.0       0.6      1.0
Primry                     n.a.      n.a.    96.7       n.S.     n.a.      n_..     2.3       n.s.      n.-.      U.s.      1.0      n.S.
Manufactures               n.a.      n.-.     n.a.      n.a.     n..       n.S.     n.a.      n.8.      n.-.      n.       n..       n.-.
Imports                     74.9      61.3     41.4      63.7     24.7      20.7     18.9       6.5       0.4      18.0     39.7      29.8
1/ Including petroleum products.
October 1983.



- 62 -
ARMEX I
Fags 6 of 7
PANM - UALCE OF PAUIITS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AMD DORT
(millioe of UsS at current prices)
Projected
Actual                  Preliminary     (Constant 1982 prices2
1978         1979         1980          19R1         19lZ         19B3          1984        1985
BALANCE OF PAIMENTS
Exports of Goods and Services (NF) *1      950.1       1,170.1      1.564.4       11,64Z.1     1.663.B      1.634.4       1.665.4     1,710.4
of which merchandise f.o.b.               370.3        425.4        491.0         459.9        613.3        408.4         422.7       450.6
Imports of Goods and Services C(F) a1     1.102.0      1,372.5      1,687.9       1,86.0       1,690.9      1,728.6       1,889.2     1,9B9.3
of wbich merchandise f.o.b.               853.8      1,073.1      1.332.7       1,658.8      1,477.5       1.353.0      1.476.1     1,552.9
Net Transfers                               -2.2          14.3         12.7         28.3          30.1         29.6          30.1        30.9
Investment Income (net)                    -54.1        -107.8       -160.5       -Z51.2        -277.4       -26Z.6       -255.2       -254.3
Current Account Balance                   -Z08.2        -295.9       -271.3       -42.8         -474.4       -327.0        -468.9      -502.3
OffEcial Capitol (Net)                     486.5         194.3        223.8         203.9        508.9        270.0         398.8       452.3
Amortization                              534.8        263.9        263.3         316.4        401.1        423.3         482.2       351.1
Disbursement                            1.021.3        438.2        4B7.1         520.3        910.0        693.3        381.0        803.4
Other Official Tr-action  (net) bl         -82.8          55.9         39.1        -36.9          -0.7         -            -            -
Private Capital (net)                      -17.9         173.2        169.1        303.4         -57.7         50.0          50.0        99.7
Net Errors and Omissions ad Unidentifed
In'leow                                 -177.6        -127.5       -140.7        -41.6          23.9          7.0         -            -
EXmIIAL CAP1TAL ANM DEBT cJ
Gross Disbursements                        984.2d/       402.6        406.9         313.8        730.2
Official Grants                            4.7           5.0          1.8          0.6          -
ConcessionaL loIas                         34.3         15.2         11.5         24.8          33.3
von-concesslonal loan
Official Export Credits                    n.a.          n.e.         na.          U.x.          n.a.
I D                                        11.8         16.1         ZO.4         38.1          36.6
Other McltiLateral                         32.4         32.0         48.8         34.4          60.8
Private                                  901.0 di      334.3        324.4        215.9         599.5
Public External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed e/       1.871.3      2,062.8      2.263.2       2,359.1      2.780.7
Official                                  457.3        506.7        410.3        616.1         729.4
Private                                 1.414.0      1.556.1      1.852.9       1,743.0      2,051.3
Undisbursed Debt                           495.1         513.9        476.2        450.4         555.0
Debt
Tot&l Service Payments                      565.1        601.9        665.1        492.3         635.2
Iterest                                    121.8         196.2        251.6        277.1         33Z.4
Payments as   of GCNF Exports                59.5         34.4         29.7         30.0          38.2
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
Official                                    5.2          6.3          9.3          9.8          11.1
private                                    9.4          11.2         11.0          12.2         12.8
Average Maturity of New Lans (years)
Official                                   17.8         19.1         17.0          17.0         16.5
Private                                    7.0          10.3         12.1          B.0           3.0
a/ Includes bunker and aviation fuel and non_inetary gold
if Reflects mainly commercial operrtiotl of the National Bank of Pn
el Nediu and long term debt only
Pa/Inaum undertook a large debt refinancIng in 1978
eI At the end of the year



-43 -
age 7 of 7
PAMW: PU.C SECI.  FEINLAL INDICAtS
Actual                                      Prolected
198D    181    1982             1983        1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
A. in Millions of Current us Dollars
Current Pevenm  /1                 1,032.6 1,177.3 1,287.7  1,392.3 1,438.6  1,601.2  1,802.3 2.026.8 2.279.3 2,563.3 2,882.5
Onrent Expenditure.                  905.9  1,004.5 1.227.1  1,272.6  1,321.2  1.437.8 1,606.2 1.778.7  1.977.0 2,223.2 2,500.2
PuRc Saving.                         126.7   172.8    60.6   119.7   117.4   163.4   196.1   268.1   302.3   340.1   382.3
Capital Exnditures /2                299.8   390.1   524.6   389.5   388.7   392.2   443.2   500.7   562.7   620.9   698.3
Consolidated Pablic Sector Deficit   173.1   217.3   464.0   269.8   21.3   228.8   247.1   252.6   260.4   280.8   316.0
8 As }ercent of GOP
Current 11VEtums 1                    29.4    30.3    30.4    31.1    29.7    29.4    29.2    29.7    29.8    29.3    29.2
Current Expendtres                    25.8    26.0    29.0    28.4    27.3    26.4    26.0    26.1    25.8    25.4 -  25.3
Public SaV10gs                         3.6     4.3     1.4     2.7     2.4      3.0     3.2     3.6     4.0     3.9     3.9
Capital Expenditures 12                8.5    10.0    12.4     8.7     8.0      7.2     7.2     7.3     7.4     7.1     7.1
CsolUdated Public Sector Deficit       4.9     5.7    11.0     6.0     5.6      4.2     4.0     3.7     3.4     3.2     3.2
C. Mm FinancLl Public Sector Debt
(Miios of Qirent 11S)
Interest Paymnts 13                  279.8   322.7   396.7   338.0   397.7   396.3   422.3   436.0   453.4   481.6   513.2
Aactizstinn f4                       213.8   215.2   388.2   201.0   262.1   351.1   362.9   374.4   387.3   401.6   416.5
Debt Service                         493.6   537.9   784.9   539.0   659.3   747.4   785.2   810.4   840.7   883.2   929.7
Debt Service  Z of GOP                14.1    13.8    18.5    12.1    13.6    13.7    12.7    11.9    11.0    10.1      9.4
Interest as 2 of Current Revenues     27.1    27.4    30.8    24.3    27.6    24.8    23.4    21.5    19.9    18.8    17.8
Outstanrg lhbt 13                  2,325.8 2,537.2 3,100.0 3.271.0 3,545.8 3,774.6 4,021.7 4,274.3 4,536.7 4,815.5 5,131.5
As Z of GI      -                     66.2    65.3    73.2    73.1    73.2    69.3    65.2    62.6    59.3    55.0    52.0
/1  Current revce of Genera Government plus the current surplm of tim public enterprises.
IZ Net capital expenditures. excluding fnvsi ts finaned by lon revenues of the financil public sector.
13 3Icludme all comrdsl hbt obligations.
14 Neium and long term debt only.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF MNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA 1,
A.  STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of September 30, 1983)
US$ Million
Loan                                                            (less cancellations)
Number          Year      Borrower              Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
13 loans     (1953-80)   Fully disbursed                         159.0         -
1397-PAN       1977       BNP                 Livestock Credit    8.0         3.0
1470-PAN       1977       IRHE                Power               73.3       37.8   2/
1565-PAN       1978       Republic            Highway
of Panama          Maintenance         12.0        0.7
1641-PAN       1978       COFINA              Industrial Credit  15.0          1.6
1672-PAN       1979       DNP                 Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0       13.0
1778-PAN       1980       IRHE                Power               23.0        4.7
1878-PAN       1980       Republic
of Panama         Urban                35.0       32.8
1954-PAN       1981       Republic            Energy Planning
of Panama          and Petroleum        6.5        6.2
1955-PAN       1981       COFINA              Industrial
Credit II          20.0       17.2
2020-PAN       1981       Republic            Road
of Panama          Rehabilitation    19.0         18.8
2182-PAN       1982      APN                  Second Port         24.4       24.0
2222-PAN       1983       IDAAN               Water Supply II    21.6        21.3
2313-PAN       1983       M=31                Sixth Power         32.1       32.1
Total (less cancellations)                       467.9
of which has been repaid                         65.4
Total now outstanding                            402.5
Amount sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          9.2             0.0
Total now held by Bank                            402.5
Total undisbursed                                            191.5
MMz==
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IM financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/  Includes a supplementary loan of US$31.3.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                   Loan    Equity   Total
1971      Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero            1.2       0.3     1.5
1978      Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                       2.4       1.4     3.8
1979      Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                           -       2.5      2.5
3.6      4.2     7.8
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, terminations,
repaymen, and sales                          0.6      0.3     0.9
Total commitments now held by IFC             3.0      3.9      6.9
Total undisbursed                              -       0.1      0.1



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)   Project prepared by:                    Government/IBRD
(2)   Initial request for Bank
financing:                             March 1983
(3)   First Bank mission to
consider project:                      March 1983
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure:                  June 1983
(c) Negotiations Completed:                       September 1983
Cd) Loan Effectiveness Planned:                   December 1983
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III.  Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
(a) A Project Coordinator would be nominated with overall responsibility
for project implementation and coordination. He would be assisted on
administrative and logistical matters by a Project Manager with
qualifications, experience aui terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank (para. 106);
(b) Satisfactory arrangements for each study including the appointment of
counterpart staff would be reviewed prior to the appointment of the
respective consultants (para. 107);
(c) The Government would send to the Bank quarterly progress reports and
consult with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of each
study (para. 108);



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
PANAMA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983                    1984               1985                    1986
Studies/Activities                         O N D J F N A M J J A S ON D  J F N A  M J J A S O N D J F K A N J
Trade and Price Policies
in Agriculture
Agricultural Institutions
Phase One
Phase Two (including training)
Effective Protection in
Industrial Sector
Social Security
Actuarial and Financial Studies
Adminlstrative and Management
Studies
Training
Health System Study
Multi Modal Transport Study
Timetable
Selection and appointment of consultants: to be completed by December 15, 1983.
Commencement of consultants' work: January 1984.
Initial Report: after the first amoth of consultants' work.
First Draft of consultants' report for review to be submitted generally two months before end of assignment.
Review of Draft Report.
Final Report at end of assignment.
Training: Training in some of the disciplines may continue beyond mid 1986.
--Preparatory stage.
__Technical assistance activities.



C   A   R   I   S   B   E   A   N                                      S
!~ ~~~U RC                                                                                                           Free zo;
PIuottlsmdel ToreoCL
Ala                                                                                                      Pfficfo
i  <                                                                                                                       Escebt4.
o                        Cerro Punta                                                                                        r        Cho
Seteno                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA
() ren    *VoIc6n   t;Oqu\e  BOCAS  DEL  TORO                  -    -                         c, 4                         ANA
aL Fothuna                                                            C  COC LE Toabre    t 
6_ -ePasol uElorn ~ rZx OSanta Fe \ \ \ E AC e i                                                          m i t l
Pfogreso                          C H I R I O U f                            _1    *   oLa Y1uodo
,/ /> Tojzl W~~~~~re Sfibolo                                  V ER AG U AS ) 04                               7o   SW
I Tut OrliusQ                                            *  Tdfo)  Cao-aza  Coiobre*   \      Ntoe
5 IPuerto                   ACItOS  F                                                           cTo Ob Hat
ArmuellL Dlaesel;nl   Mr
'I  *~~~~~~~~r
Guoruma               pdm tg   X     \S     _    L     rr
UNITED STATES S    '.                                     Bahia Honda            ?     *                L,
SULF OF MEXICO                                                                                         l ;     a d e \  L LaoPl 
CUBA I-7  ¢    W S  7         4 o                       ,o,U           Pitalo         OS SANTO 
JAMAI. 2         Eo,.                                                                                       PdDE  i
W.LXICO ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ RP.                   O S
-i OILIICOZE               CARIBBEAN SEA
ODURMS
-  'EYALX--X I-X/J_
EL SALVDONICRGUA                                       
ICIFIC OCEAN                  COLOIA                P     A      C      I     F     I     C               0      C     E      A     N
at 'er



IBRD 2732R3
NOVEMBER 1980
E   A
LM         Po  p j:'C        ILAS DE SM  BLAB
;IfA   .1   .-Mondinga
Puerto  -js           ,I__C -rro
Ema Lul     Chepo,                                                  *
Al~~~~~~4
-   55  k  {_  Tocu nn <I  Copliono   a                 
Ar                    AMreNA                   P A N A M A > <o
Chorrera         -'
Puerlo Culmito 
Punta Chomain'...
j ,)7  ,,           Ss                        5 }    ~~~~~~D  A  FR 5I E  N                  _ j 
ARCNIPELAIO;,'47.
,m..i Corios                 DE LAS PERLAS
&)       s~unta Coens\                                <s     
El Real. Io
G U L F    O F    P A N A M   A                                       *Garachine                E
PANAMA
Inwr-Anericon Highway
-Planned rute,lnbr-Am_e    Hi_ghy                          r.
Paved or all.wealher roads
i    Airfields or lnding st ripB                                    Jaqu6              3
oternmlolna airport
j Ports
PencoCom;                                                                      C  O   L  a     M   Ba  I  A
_ -- Pravinclel bnie "'So
-*-- Internetionl h inle
o      10    20    s0    40    s0
MILES
N               OL       2p   .           s0   .
-                      Lo"zv"5       w.                                              rz       ,E                   \              | T



