Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10626-PAN Type: (PCR)                   ReportNo. 10626
WISE, G. / X31679 / T9 003/ OEDD2
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN I
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(LOANS 2357, 2358 and 2708-PAN)
MAY 6, 1992
Country Department TI
Country Operations Division 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C:URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Balboa (B/.)
US$1 - B./1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins. The US dollar
(US$) is accepted as de facto legal tender.
ACRONYMS
BDA     -      Banco de Desarrollo Agricola
(Agricultural Development Bank )
CSS     -      Caja de Seguro Social
(Social Security Agency)
GOP     -      Government of Panama
IMA     -      Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute )
OED     -      Operations Evaluation Department
PCR     -      Program Completion Report
SAL     -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL   -      Sectoral Adjustment Loan
TAL     -      Technical Assistance Loan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of Difedfflto-CeAI
.-tm Evauati"m
May 6, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report on Panama - Structural Adjustment
Loan I, Technical Assistance Loan I and Structural
Adiustment Loan II (Loans 2357, 2358 and 2768-PAN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Program
Completion Report on Panama - Structural Adjustment Loan I, Technical
Assistance Loan I and Structural Adjustment Loan II (Loans 2357, 2358 and
2768-PAN)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may b used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise  disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROG0AM COPLEUTON REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN I
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUST1ENT LOAN II
(LOANS 2357, 2358 AND 2768-PAN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .................................l
EVALUATION SUMHIARY  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    lll
PART It PROGRAM REVIEW FROME THE BANKOS PEERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . 
I   IlTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . .   . . .   . .   . .   . . . . . .   . .  1
II.  THE MACROECONOMIC FRANEWORa . . .. .........                         2
III*    SAL   I   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  .  *  *  *  *  *  *   *  *  *  * *  *  *   *  a *   3
A. Loan Preparation.....................                             3
B. The Adjustment Program 5 . . . . . . . .   * . . . . . .          5
Public Sector Effiien      ncy...............                  5
Industrial Policy and Trade Liberalization . . . . . . .       6
AgriculturalPolicy  ..a.....................                   7
C.  Implementation and Results . . . ...    . . . . . . . . .. ..    8
D.  Compliance with Conditionality for Second
Tranche Release  . . . . . ...............                     9
IV*SL  1.S       #*#o                               IIoe                 10
A.  The Period Between SAL I and SAL                .     . .*      10
B. The Adjustment Program . . . . . . ......... . . .               12
Public Sector Effiency e................                      12
Industrial and Trade Policy  .. .... .                        13
EmploymentPolicy  ....  .  .     .  .    .................    .  14
Agricultural Policy  a.................                       14
Conditions for Second Trench. Release  .  . . . .  . . .      14
C.  Implementation and Rosults....                .... .            15
of thieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
A.     ntroduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
B. Description of the Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
Studies in the Agricultural Sectc  .  . . . . . . . . .   17
Effective Protection in the IndustriaL Sector  . . . . .   17
Social Security and Health. . . . . .. .. . . . . . .      18
Multimodal transport study of the Panama City -
Colon Corridor io ....................a....              18
C.  Implementation and Results        .. . o o . . . . o  .o . . . .o . .  18
VI. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE GOVERNMENT'S SHORT-TERM STABILIZATION
PROGRAM AND THE STAND-BY AGREEMENT WITH THE IMF  . . . . . .  19
VII  EVALUATION OF THE SALs AND THE TAL AND THE ROLE
OF  THE  BANK  R o  *    .  .    .  *  o  .  .  .  .  o  .  .  .  .  .  *    .    .  20
A. Design of the Program  ..................                    20
3. Front Loading   . . o   . .  9 .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . .  22
C. Sustainability . .       . . .    . *    . * . * * * * * .   22
D.  The Rolo of the Bank . . o . . . * . . . . . . * *   * *    23
E.  Impact of the Program  . o o . . . . . . . . . . . . o . .  24
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9  . . . .  24
A. Accomplishments of  ae SALs  . . . . . . . . . a . . . . e   24
B. Causes of Failure  . . . a . . . . . . . . . * *  * * 9      25
C. Key Issues for Possible Future Operations  . 9 . . . * . .   26
PART Ilt  PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .  26
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................                   27
Basic Data Sheet - Structural Adjustment Loan I (Loan 2357) . . .    27
Basic Data Sheet - Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2358)  . . . . .  29
Basic Data Sheet - Structural Adjustment Loan II (Loan 2768)  . . .  31
ANNEXES
1: Table A.1 - Panama, Domestic Economic Indicators  . . . . . . . .   33
Table A.2 - Panama, External Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
Table A.3 - Panama, Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector  . .  35
2: The TAL Studies: Main Conclusions and Results  . . . . . . . . .    37
3: Matrix of Tranche Release Conditions and Actual Actions Taken . .   45
4: The Period Between SAL I and SAL II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
ATTACHMENT
Letter Received from the Government of Panama (original and
translation) .        . . .*. .*59



- i.-
PROGRAI  C0i2LETION REPORT
PANAMA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN I
AND SJRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(LOANS 2357, 2358 AND 2768-PAN)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for Structural Adjustment
Loans (SAL) I and il (Loans 2357 and 2768 PAN), and Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL, Loan 2356-PAN). SAL I and the associated TAL were approved by the Board
on November 13, 1983; SAL II on December 11, 1986. SAL I of US$60.2 million
was fully disbursed, SAL II of US$100 million was not. Its second tranche of
US$50 million was canceled on December 14, 1987, at the Government's request.
The US$5 million TAL was canceled on July 18, 1989, with an undisbursed balance
of US$0.5 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division 2, Country
Department II, of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).  This PCR was sent to the
Government of Panama, but the Government has declined to comment (see Letter
in httachment).
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on reports prepared by
the borrower, the most recent Country Economic Memorandum and additional data,
the President's Reports, loan documents, project files, and discussions with
Bank staff and Panamanian officials.



- lit -
PROGRAM COHPlETION MRPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I. ITECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN I
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(LOANS 2357, 2358 AND 2768-PAN)
EVALU4TION SUMMARY
Backè,zound
1.        The Panamanian economy wes at a crossroads by the early 1980.. The
existing policy and institutional framework were no longer adequate to sustain
growth; unemployment was high and increasing; the public sector, which had
prwiided 802 of all new jobs created during the 1970a, had become so burdened
with external debt that no further expansion was possible; and the previously
dynamic service sector, accounting for 702 of GDP, was slowing down markedly.
2.        In 1982, the economy entered into a fiscal crisis and an economic
recession.  In an attempt to compensate for sluggish private activity, the
public sector grossly exceeded targets established under the prevailing IMF
Standby Arrangement. At the same time, the economic and financial crisis in
Latin America took its toll on Panama's service sector, which is strongly
oriented towards the Region. After August 1982, a new government took a series
of corrective measures to deal with this crisis. A new Standby Arrangeuent
with the IMF was successfully negotiated during the first half of 1983. At the
same time the authorities sought Bank support for a SAL.
Obi ectives
3.        The structural adjustment program supported by SAL I, the TAL and
SAL II was aimed at inducing additional sources of growth by increasing public
sector efficiency and reducing protection on agriculture, industry and labor.
The Government's program was based on a reduction of public sector deficits
combined with an intended depreciation of the real exchange rate (to improve
the balance of payments), through reforms in the labor code and decreasing
protection on importables, mainly wage-goods. In a country like Panama, where
the U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, any adjustment to the real
exchange rate can only be produced through changes in real prices and not
through the adjustment of the nominal exchange rate.
4.        Under SAL I, given the financial constraints on the public sector,
the main aim of the Government was to increase public savings.   The main
actions in this area includeds  (i) the closure or sale of several public
entities; (ii) reform of public sector housing policy; and (iiI) improved
public *ector debt management.  In the industrial sector the actions to be
taken by the Government included: (i) conversion of most quantitative trade
restrictions into tariffs; (ii) establishment of a lower maximum and higher
minimum import tariff levels; (iii) cabinet approval of draft Industrial
Incentives Legislation; (iv) abolishing some domestic price controls; and (v)
Improving export incentives. In the agricultural sector, the specific actions



- iv -
were: (i) reducing price supports aaid subsidies to inefficient producers; (ii)
separating policies aimed at improving the social welfare of the rural poor
from production policies; (iii) revising the role of public institutions in
agriculture; and (iv) reducing and eventually eliminating subsidies for state-
owned agricultural corporationr and enterprises.
5.        A Techn:ical Assistance Loan (TAL) for US$5 million accompanied SAL I
and financed technical assistance and studies of further public sector reforms,
including major actuarial studies for the social security programs, studies on
industrial protection, agrie-Atural pricing policy and management studies of
key agricultural institutions and enterprises.   It aimed at providing the
Government with the  .ecessary information and analysis for decision making in
priority sectors in support of its structural adjustment program.
6.        SAL II was intended to deepen the reforms started in SAL I.  The
program included policy char.ges in the public, industrial and agricultural
sectors and in labor market regulations. The main issues to be addressed in
the public cector were: (i) reform of public enterprises; (ii) reduction of
pjublic employment; (iii) preparation of a public investment program for 1986-
1987 consistent with the priorities of the development strategy; and (iv) re-
form of the social security system. With regard to the industrial sector, the
main reforms included in the program weres (i) eliminating all but 20 import
quotas; (ii) the substitution of the discriminatory industrial incentives
system witin a simple industrial registry; (iii) implementation of a program for
import tariifs to converge to the established minimum and maximum levels and
lower average tariff protection; and (iv) according greater emphasis to ad
valorem tariffs. For the agricultural sector, the specific measures included
in the program were: (i) reform of the agricultural incentives legislation;
(ii) revise the role of public institutions in agriculture; and (iii) liberal-
ize agricultural trade and pricing policy.
Imnlementation and Results
7.        Compliance with SAL I conditions was satisfactory.  Thz Government
was successful in meeting most of its objectives: abolition of many import
quotas, closure of a major sugar mill, stricter control over public expendi-
tures and in setting the agenda for the reform process.   Second tranche
conditions were mainly plans and the approval by the Cabinet of two draft lavs.
However, even though they appeared to be simple, compliance was slow, mainly
due to political changes and elections.   The second tranche was finally
disbursed in June, 1984. Following disbursement, many actions were reversed
(see para. 48). This slowed significantly the preparation of SAL II. During
1985, the Bank and the GOP could not agree on how to reverse the backsliding
after SAL I second tranche release nor on the content of a Letter of Develop-
ment Policy.
8.        Very few of the recommendations of the studies included in the TAL
were implemented, possibly because most were finished when the GOP appeared no
longer committed to the program.  However, several studies (i.e. Effective
Protection, Trade and Pricing policies, Actuarial study of the Pension System)
were very useful for the policy dialogue between the GOP and the Bank, during
the design of SAL II.



-v -
9.        Early in 1986, the Bank and the GOP finally agreed on a number of
conditions that should be fulfilled before each stage in the processing of
SAL II. The key breakthrough was the agreement on the content of three laws,
reforming the Industrial Incentives law, the Agricultural Incentives law and
the Labor Code. These 'lavs were the main accomplishment of SAL II, and their
evaluation is therefore of greal importance to judge the results of the loan.
Overall, the concent of the laws appears to be unsatisfactory. The effective
protection rates that would be in effect after five years, according to the new
Industrial Incentives law, appear too high to have had an effect on the
structure of production.  The reforms of the Labor Code did not attack tb
distortions. Finally, though the Agricultural Incentives Law appeared tc a
good, the creation of the goods specific Commissions, proposed by the
Government of Panama (GOP), proved to be a mistake.   These Commissions
informally set quotas and prices in their respective markets, in opposition to
SAL 11 conditionality.
10.       After the approval of the laws, the compliance with the other
conditions was reluctant and slow, specially due to the opposition of the
Minister of Agriculture. After appraisal, the Bank decided to increase the
amount of the loan arguing that the program had been strengthened by the
addition of a Social Security component. It in debatable if the final program
was in effect stronger than the original one, especially given the final
content of the three laws.
11.       The GOP could not comply with the condition for Board presentation
of Cabinet approval of the draft law for Social Security reform, because of
intense opposition from the Government's political party. This condition was
finally waived. The decision to go ahead with the loan in such circumstances,
i.e. with strong opposition within the ruling party and the Cabinet to the most
important components of the second tranche (changes in agricultural prices,
sale of agricultural enterprises and social security reforms), implied the
acceptance of high risks of non-compliance. The Bank seemed to be confident
that the same slow and reluctant but in the end mostly effective compliance
that had occurred in 1986 would repeat itself. In this case, compliance was
possible due to the strongly negative financial consequences of a delay in
SAL II (see Anaex 4, para. 18). A very high percentage of the 1986 external
financing was due in the last quarter of the year, and was all tied to the
approval of SAL II. The Bank seemingly was counting on the same effect being
pruduced by the need for the second tranche. In this train of thought, the
political problems that arose in June 1987 and led the GOP to choso to stop
servicing the external debt and to disregard second tranche conditionality,
were unpredictable. However, there is a second way to look at the events. The
compliance with the 1986 conditions was due not only to the GOP's need for
financing, but also to the fact that the Bank accepted at least three times to
soften its position. The first occurred when negotiating the content of the
three laws.  The second when concluding appraisal.  The third before Board
presentation. Given this track record, the GOP may have thought that the
conditions for the second tranche release were negotiable. This could explain
why, by June 1987, the GOP had complied with so few of the second tranche
release conditions. Faced with a strong stance by the Bank on the content of
the Social Security law, the GOP was unable to deliver (see Annex 4).
12.       Eight months after the approval of SAL II it was clear that the
Government would be unable to comply with all of the conditions for second



- vi -
tranche release (see paras. 65 to 70).   There were also some important
reversals in first tranche conditionality, especially in the agricultural
sector where some price controls vere formally reinstated and the Inatituto de
Mercadso Agropecuario (IMA) started to intervene again in imports and prices
(see paras. 71 to 74). The second tranche %as finally canceled on December 14,
1987. In summary, SAL II, both because of problems in design and the lack of
commitment of the GOP, failed to accomplish its major objectives.
Sustainability
13.       Most of the substantive measures regarding quotas and price controls
were rapidly reversed ir 1988. It could be argued that this was the corse-
quence of the Government's lack of commitment to the execution of the program,
in the context of a strategy that did not produce sufficient incentives for
sustainability (see para. 106). At several key instances in the preparation
of SAL II, however, the Bank made concessions to the GOP that may have weakened
its negotiating position (e.g. on the trade liberalization component and on the
draft law for Social Security reform) and impact.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
14.       By-and-large, the main objectives of the adjustment program supported
by the two SALs were not met or sustained.   The objectives were:   i) to
increase the efficiency and reduce the size of the public sector; and ii) to
change the incentives in agriculture and industry from import substitution to
export promotion.  Apart from the quita successfu' privatization and closure
program, the size of the public sector was rot reduced (see para. 112). The
industrial and agricultural sectors continued to produce predominantly for
import substitution, as the industry component implied only a mild reduction
in protection and the Government of Panama did not comply with the condition-
ality for the agricultural component. Particularly under SAL II, the measures
taken fell short of what was expected at the time the loans were made.
15.       Even though the areas targeted for reform under the program were
important, the structure of the specific reform program was inappropriate for
the realization o.f the main objectives of the strategy (see para. 101). For
example, the program did not address in depth two of the key problems of
Panama: the Labor Code and the oligopc'istic characteristics of most markets,
due to the continuing high level of pj.:otection.
16.       The Government of Panama was committed to the program during the
preparation and approval of SAL I. This led to a very successful start of the
operation. But the GOP's commitment started to waiver after the resignation
of the President in early 1984.   Nonetheless,  SAL I was completed with
satisfactory results. The Government of Panama asked for SAL II as part of a
package to cover the country's financial gap but it was reluctant to commit
itself to the needed reforms. The lack of conviction led to a substantial lack
of transparency and very little national dialogue cn the reforms to be
implemented and their meaning. This in itself would have made them difficult
to implement, no matter how relevant and well articulated the program had been.
The Bank was aware of the GOP's lack of conviction over the need of the
reforms. To face this lack of commitment, the Bank followed a strategy that
consisted of heavily front-loading the program so that the execution of these
conditions would be the test of the GOP's commitment. But this strategy was



- 'vii -
undermined by conce3sions at key instances. As front-loading is an imperfect
substitute for commitment, due to the fact that policy changes can be reversed,
it needs to be backed by a strategy that lends credibility to the actions that
would follow any reversal (i.e. a reduction or discontinuation of the Bank
*      lending program).  In this context, concessions such as the acceptance of a
very weak trade reform, the increase of the loan amount during negotiations
when the program had not been made significantly stronger, and the waiver of
a key condition for Board presentation, possibly reduced such credibility and
therefore did not help create incentives for sustainability.
17.       The TAL studies were generally of gcod quality and were fin7-shed in
time.  Soriie studies (e.g. effective protection, actuarial studies ot Serial
security) were very useful for the preparation of SAL II, but others were
disregarded, as they were concentrated in the most controversial areas, as
agriculture (trade and pricing policies in agriculture, agricultural institu-
tions) and social security. Others, in turn would have bV3n considered if the
lending program had been continued (e.g. health).
18.       For future operations, the most important lessons are:
a)  When SALs are a key part of a financing package from external
resources, the Bank may be faced with pressure to go ahead, both by
the country and the donors. In this case, it becomes important that
the more difficult conditions should be resolved before appraisal
and/or negotiations. Once negotiations take place, Board presenta-
tion conditions should preferably not be key conditions within the
overall program, as pressure to go ahead is likely to mount at later
stages.
b) The idea of structural adjustment as a process, assisted by a
sequence of loans is acceptable.  However, the adjustment program
should address the more important issues at an early stage, unless
there is a compelling reason not to do so.  It is not helpful to
address only the relatively easy issues with the first credit,
assuming that more substantial issues will be addressed in follow-up
operations.
c) While the Bank should be flexible, within reasonable limits,
regarding the content of % loan, at the design stage a careful and
realistic assessment sh -Ld be made to establish a minimum core
policy component from which the Bank should not deviate substan-
tially.  This is essential for the Bank to maintain credibility with
respect to the client country and the donors.
d) In the design of a program, once an area is identified as vital to
the adjustment process, the associated reform covered under the
credit should be sufficiently penetrating.   It is not helpful to
retain a condition that does not go far enough to affect the actual
reform.
e) If the Bank doubts that the country owns the program, the strategy
of frontloading has to be safeguarded by incentives to comply. These
can be provided by the risk of foregoing the subsequent loans in the
program. For this strategy to succeed, the Bank should design the



- viil -
program as a series o,f small loans or tranche the loan adequately art
then do everything possible to m=intaln the credibility in the
actions that will follow non-compliance.
f) Above all, it bears mentioning that there is no substitute for a
committed government to ensure proper design and successful imple-
mentation of a program.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN I
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(LOANS 2357, 2358 AND 2768-PAN)
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
Identity
Name    s  Structural Adjustment Loans I and II
Loan :4o.: 2357-PAN and 2768-PAN
Region  s  Latin America and the Caribbean
Country t  Panama
Sector  s  Non-Project Lending
Name    s  Technical Assistance ?'roject
Loan No.:   2358-PAN
Region  s  Latin America and the Caribbean
Country t  Panama
Sector  s  Technical Assistance
1.       This Program CompletLon Report (PCR) covers the Structural Adjustment
Loans (SAL) I (Loan 2357-PAN) and II (Loan 2768-PAN) and the Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL, Loan 2358-PAN) extended to Panama. SAL I, approved by
the Board on November 13, 1983, for $60.2 million, was fully disbursed.
SAL II, approved by the Board on December 11, 1986, for $100 million, was
canceled on December 14, 1987 at the request of the government, before the
release of a second tranche of $50 million. The TAL, also approved by the
Board on November 13, 1983, for $5 million, was canceled on July 18, 1989 with
an undisbursed balance of $500,438.25.
2.       The report iu organized Ln the following way: in Section II, a macro-
economic outlook of the Panamanian economy at the time the loans were made and
implvmented is presented, to provide a framework for the discussion of the
specific loans (Section III sn SAL I, Section IV on SAL II and Section V on the
TAL). In Section VI, the role of the INF and the debt negotiation. with the
commercial banks are analyzed; Section VII discusses the design of the Loan and
the role of the Bank.  Finally, the main conclusions are outlined ln Sec-
tion VIII.



-2-
It.  THE MACROECONOMIC FRANEWORK
3.       In 1982, Panama was one of the most advanced developing countries
eligible for Bank lending./   Moreover,  the country had a very unusual
structure of production, with the services sector accounting for almost 70% of
GDP. Most foreign exchange earnings were also based on services, stimulated
by the country's locational advantage, favorable legislation and the use of the
Us dollar as its domestic currency.   The last element is one of the most
notable characteristics of Panama's economy and a key issue in designing an
appropriate program for reforms.
4.       The economy of Panama showed a much higher average rate of growth
during the 1960s, when GDP grew at an annual rate of 8%, than during the 19709
(4.5%),  and the 1980s  (2.8% through 1987).   These aggregates hide very
different sectoral behavior which are relevant to the understanding of Panama's
situation prior to the loans:   i) the services sector (including the oil
pipeline, Colon free zone, and the Canal) had been growing at a much faster
rate than the goods sector; ii) the public sector was growing at a faster rate
than the private sector; and iii) capital intensity was increasing at the same
time as the unemployment rate was increasing.
5.       Agriculture and industry achieved higher average annual rates of
growth during the 1960s (5.3% and 10.9% respectively) than during the 1970s
(2.2% and 3.4%). During the period 1980 through 1987, agriculture grew at 3%
per annum while the industrial sector was almost stagnant.
6.       During the 1970s, the public sector share in GDP and in employment
increased vis-a-vis the 1960s.  In the early 1980s, this suggested the need for
a program designed to overcome the dependence on public sector growth, due to
the impossibility of financing such a strategy in the post-1982 world, and to
provide new sources of growth.
7.       The capital intensity of the economy had increased sharply during the
19709 leading to low employment generation, with employment growing at 2.2% per
year as compared to 3.5% in the 1960s. In the private sector this was mainly
the outcome of a system of incentives which, on the one hand, increased the
cost of labor (labor code modifications of the early 1970s) and, on the other,
provided incentives to capital intensive techniques through generous tax
exonerations under the prevailing industrial investment legislation. Urban
unemployment had already become a grave economic and social problem in the
early 19809. If it had not been for the expansion of public education, the
reduction of the m; imum age of retirement and the great expansion of public
employment, all unsustainable in the new international economic environment,
the unemployment rate would have reached 20% in 1983 (double the actual rate).
8.       It has been estimated that the once and for all effect of the labor
code modification on total labor costs was an increase in the cost of labor of
)/ With a per capita income of US$2120, only Mexico, Portugal, Algeria,
Uruguay and Yugoslavia had a higher per capita income.
2J See S2ecial Recort on Metronolitan Unemolov  ent in Panama, Report
No. 3833-PAN (July 1982).



- 3 -
between 30% and 60%.!  The principal changes were related to employment
security after two year. on the job; compensation for unjustified firing (8%
of total remuneration); a seniority bonus scheme (2% of total remuneration paid
after 10 years of work) collective agreements, mandatory if requested by the
union; and contributions to trade unions to be paid by the worker independently
of being unionized.
9.       The consolidated non-financial public sector deficit recorded a strong
increase in 1982 in the ratio of the deficit to GDP to 11%, doubling the
figures for 1980-81.  This large deficit affected Panama's creditworthiness at
a time when commercial banks were revising their policy towards all Latin
American countries, making programs with the IMF and the Bank a sine        amno
for further commercial credits.
10.      The deterioration of public finances was clearly due to the strong
expansion in government services during the 1970s as well as the effect of
servicing higher foreign debt payments.   A program was needed which would
combine a real depreciation of the exchange rate with a reduction in fiscal
deficits, together with changes geared to induce investments in the medium term
in activities more in line with the comparative advantage of Panama.
11.      A real exchange depreciation in a country which can not devalue
requires changes in domestic costs of non-tradeables.   There were two main
sources of cost increases:  the higher cost of labor and the structure of
protection on tradeables. The former resulted from the labor code, the latter
from different instruments used to protect the domestic production of foods,
clothing and other importable products, mostly wage goods. Export incentives
(CATs), intended to introduce some neutrality in the protective system, were
reducing the bias against exports only to a small degree.
III.  SAL I
A. Loan Preparation
12.      In 1982, the economy entered into a fiscal crisis and a recession.
In an attempt to compensate for sluggish private activity, the public sector
grossly exceeded targets established under the prevailing IMF Standby
Arrangement. At the same time, the economic and financial crisis in Latin
America took its toll on Panama's service sector, which is strongly oriented
towards the Region. Beginning August 1982, a new government took a series of
corrective measures to deal with this crisis. The economic team led by the
Finance Minister, the President and the Commander of the Natlonal Guard all
agreed with the need for structural adjustment.
13.      The Government began to formulate a program of structural adjustment
in late 1982 and early 1983. At that time the authorities sought Bank support
in the form of a SAL. The principal objective was the creation of new growth
opportunities by reorienting the economy towards production for export. Thie
required major improvements in the efficiency of both the public and private
3/ Spinanger, D., (1986), nSpeaking up about the labor code - a survey of
employed and unemployed in Panama", Kiel Working Papers, No. 263.



-4-
sectors: the first through a reduction in its scope an(d institutional reformsp
and the latter through changes in the incentive system.
14.      An Identification Mission visited Panama in February 1983.  In March,
the Government announced the closure of Felipillo sugar mill (the largest and
most inefficient of the Complejo Azucarero La VLctoria owned by the public
sector), a reduction in the support price for ricb of 8%, liberaliration of
beef exports and the freeing of potato prices. This was the beginnit;i of a
series of measures that were agreed between the Government and the Bank and
were taken before Board presentation of SAL I. The attitude that permeated the
discussions with the Government was that, given the political cost involved in
many of the reforms, the loan had to be heavily front-loaded. In May 1983, the
Loan Committee approved appraisal of a SAL. At that time, it was agreed not
to include a reform of the Labor Code.
15.      In June 1983, the commercial banks agreed to lend $278 million to
Panama, the Bank appraised SAL I and the Fund approved a Stand-by Arrangement
through December 31, 1984 (see paras. 89 and 91).
16.      In September 1983, the Commander of the National Guard resigned and
was replaced by General Manuel Noriega. Changes were also made in the Cabinet,
including the replacement of the Finance Minister. At the timec the President
confirmed to the Bank the Government's continued commitment to the adjustment
program.
17.      After the GOP had complied with all conditions for negotiations
(removal of import quotas, lifting of restrictions on coffee exports, ending
price controls on expensive cuts of meat and establishing a date for enforcing
the Grade B milk price), the Region requested and received authorization from
the Loan Committee for negotiations which were held in September 1983. At the
Loan Committee meeting, the substance of the conditions proposed for the
release of the second tranche was questioned, since the conditionality
consisted primarily of statements of purposes, timetables and preparation of
draft laws. The Region responded that much had been accomplished before Board
presentation. These actions are summarized in the policy matrix in Annex 3,
including the measures requested in connection with SAL I, the timing of
actions planned or actually undertaken by Board presentation and subsequent
developments.
18.      SAL I was approved by the Executive Directors on November 15, 1983 and
became effective on December 13, 1983. The first tranche of $40.2 million was
disbursed on December 29, 1983. An accompanying TAL of $S million was also
approved by the Executive Directors on November 15, 1983 designed to help the
authorities in the formulation of further policy measures.11
g/ See Sectlon V.



-5-
B. The Adiustment Proaram,5'
19.      The program focused on three main areas:  improving public sector
efficiency, reorienting the incentive structure of the industrial sector, and
increasing productivity and output in the agricultural sector. The program's
objectives were to increase exports (traditional and non-traditional) and
productivity, by reducing policy distortions such as: high agricultural and
industrial domestic prices; heavy state intervention in domestic markets; a
large and inefficient public sector; and the labor legislation which increased
costs.
Public Sector Efficiency
20.      Given the financial constraints on the public sector, the authorities
realized the need for major reforms in this area.   The main aim of the
Government was to increase public savings. The principal actions included:
(i) closure of several public sector enterprises; (ii) a coherent investment
program for the period 1983-1985 consistent with the priorities of the new
economic program; (iii) reform of public sector housing policy; (iv) studies
of the health and social security systems; (v) effective management of state-
owned assets, especially those assets located in the former Canal Zone; (vi)
reform of the Customs administration; and (vii) improved public sector debt
management.
21.      Although in 1982 the consolidated accounts of the 45 public sector
enterorises and decentralized agencies showed a surplus, some of them required
large subsidies. Most of the subsidies and transfers had gone to cover losses
of public entities in housing, development finance and the agricultural sector.
The Government intended to eliminate these subsidies over a period of five
years by selling, restructuring or shutting down some of these enterprises.
With these measures the Government expected to eventually reduce the cost of
the services provided by these enterpriser to consumers. For first tranche
release, the GOP had closed the Felipillo sugar mill and the State banana
corporation and sold a hotel. The program included as further steps, the sale
of Contadora Panama and the restructuring of the National airline.
22.      Due to the heavy debt service obligations and the limited availability
of foreign financing, the Government intende;. to sharply reduce Public sector
investment from an average of 13% of GDP between 1976 and 1982 to about 7% by
the mid-1980s.   Social sector investment was to be reduced, especially in
public housina. To achieve these goals, the Government intended to increase
control over the approval of new projects and the execution of the budget. The
public housing policy reforms are detailed in Annex 3, Section I1I.4.
23.      Until 1982, the Social Security Aaencv had been generating cash
savings despite being mismanaged and involved in inappropriate investment,
including the promotion of housing construction projects which had resulted in
major losses.  As a condition for first tranche release, the Social Security
Agency was to be prevented from engagiinj in further promotion of housing
j/ The actions taken as conditions for first tranche and second tranche
release are detailed in Annex 3.



- 6 -
construction. Two studies under the TAL would propose a reform program for the
Social Security System and the integrated system of health.
24.      Under the Canal Treaty of 1979, considerable assets of the prevlouc
Canal gone reverted to PanamanLan control: three ports, two unused airports,
a large amount of housing, a trans-isthmian railway and a substantial amount
of land.   Due to inadequate legLslation, some of these assets had been
underutilized. New legislation was prepared and presented to Congress ln March
1983, to allow for land in the old Canal Zone to be leased or sold.   In
addition, the Government intended to finance a study to reform the Customs
administration to Lmprove revenue collection. The reforms were to be completed
by end 1984.
Industrial Policy and Trade LiberalizatLon
25.      The new development  strategy  sought new growth  and employment
opportunities in the accelerated production of goods for export.  Important
reforms were needed to transform the previously inw&rd-looking and over-
regulated goods sector into an internationally competitive sector.   The
specific issues which needed to be addreased by the Government included:
(i) conversion of quantitative restrictions into tariffs; (ii) establishment
of revised maximum and minimum tariff levels and reduction of the average
tariff level; (iii) preparation of a new Industrial Incentives Law; (iv) re-
moval of price controls; (v) simplification of export incentives; and
(vi) flexible interpretation of the labor legislation.
26.      As part of the structural adjustment program, the authorities planned
to reform trade nolicies. Import quotas were to be gradually eliminated as an
instrument of protection and substituted by tariffs. By October 15, 1983 the
Government had eliminated around 50% of the import quotas (out of a total of
289 items) and the Government would present a timetable for the removal of the
remaining quotas by May 1984..  Import quotas applied to products of an
especially sensitive nature wopre expected to take longer to remove. Studies
would be undertaken under the TAL to determine the appropriate level of tariff
protection to replace these quotas. In view of the results of the studies, new
levels of maximum and minimum tariffs would be announced, and included in the
draft Industrial Incentives Law to be approved by the 'Qbinet by end-May 1984.
The effective rate of protection under the new maximum ariff was to be lower
than the rate of protection under the quota system, except for a few agro-
industrles that were to receive tpec'.al treatment.  The new minimum tariff
level was to be applied to some industrial inputs that had previously had very
low tariffs. This measure was to help reduce effective protection for the
production of final goods while increaeing it for intermediate inputs. The
Government also announced that new activities would be afforded a 125%
effective protection the first year, falling later to 100%, equivalent to an
ad valorem tariff between 33% and 40%. It was agreed that the Government would
not apply tariff protection ln excess of 100% ad valorem, except after
consultation with the Bank.W
27.      An important iesue to be addressed in this sector was the LndustrLal
incentives leoislation. Under Law No. 413 of December 1970, firms could sign
6/ See Annex 3, Sectlon II.



what were called "Contracts with the Nation", allowing them exemptions from
income tax and import duties, reduced rates of taxation and/or tax credit
certificates when undertaking an investment project.   These contracts were
signed on a company-by-company basis and the benefits were granted in a
discretionary manner, essentially reflecting the negotiating power of the
investor. New legislation was to be prepared to give equal incentives to all
firms, and a draft would have to be approved by the Cabinet by May 1984. In
the meantime, no new contracts would be signed and the maximum term for
renewals would be reduced from ten to five years.
28.      Further reforms were planned to stimulate private investor confidence.
Price controls on basic foods and other products such as clothing were to be
lifted, except those which were applied on politically sensitive items.
Moreover, these price controls would become redundant once the corresponding
import quotas were abolished.
29.      With regard to export incentives, redeemable tax certificates (CATs)
had been introduced in 1974 for non-traditional export goods. Due to their
potential importance as an instrument to compensate in compensating exporters
for the high cost of some inputs, the authorities were going to simplify the
process for obtaining CATs, by May 1984.
30.      To further reduce costs in the manufacturing sector, labor market
riaidities had to be reduced. The Government was accompanying these measures
with a study of labor legislation, financed by USAID, to determine to which
extent job creation had been discouraged by the Labor Code and to prepare
recommendations for its reform. Furthermore, a Legal commission was estab-
lished to modify labor code interpretation.
Acricultural Policy
31.      During the 1970s, the agricultural sector had been characterized by
low productivity and low growth. During that period, large amounts of public
resources were invested in agriculture, but part of them were allocated to
activities with low rates of return including activities oriented towards the
"asentamientos" or agrarian reform settlements formed on the expropriated land
in the reform of 1969-1973. In addition, agricultural policy had emphasized
import-substitution since the asentamientos mainly produced for the domestic
market. The new development strategy of the program aimed at reversing this
low growth trend and achieving higher output, lower cost of basic foodstuffs
and expansion of exports. The specific actions to accomplish chese goals were:
(i) reducing and eventually eliminating subsidies for state-owned agricultural
corporations and enterprises; (Li) revising the role of public institutions in
agriculture; (iii) eliminate import and export restrictionsl (iv) reducing
price supports to inefficient producers; and (v) removing price controls.
32.      During the late seventies and early eighties, the state intervened
heavily in this sector participating directly in agricultural Troduction, in
marketing and in the promotion of credit through the Agricultural Development
Bank  (BDA).   In early 1983,  a review of the directly productive state
onterpr4eeo had disclosed the large amount of subsidies that they had required.



Major reforms were subsequently undertaken to reduce those subsidies.11 BDA
had also faced serious losses due to the large amounts of lending to the
agrarian reform settlements. To reduce operating losses, the interest rate
subsidy was cut. These measures were consistent with the financial constraints
of the public sector and with the overall goal of the program for allocating
resources more efficiently.
33.      Agricultural trade and pricing had, for many years, been subject to
restrictions and controls which were reflected in the Agricultural Incentives
Law (Law No. 19 of October 1982).  This legal framework had permitted and
encouraged quantitative restrictions on food imports as well as exports, price
controls on the basket of basic goods, and support prices on agricultural
products. Consequently, resources had been misallocated and productivity had
been low. A law consistent with the new direction of agricultural policy was
to be prepared and presented to the Cablnet by May 1984. The new policy goal
was to reorient the sector towards the production of those agricultural goods
in which Panama had a comparative advantage, such as cattle raising, tropical
export crops, selected vegetable and fruit crops and forestry, and to the
promotion of those exports. These objectives were to be achieved through a
reduction of the state's role in marketing and a greater reliance on market
forces. As part of the new acricultural trade policy, the authorities had.
removed export quotas on beef and coffee to promote the production of these
goods for exports. A reduction in orice suyoorts for rice and other basic
products was also carried out and was expected to decrease losses of the
Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA) caused by buying the overproduction of
rice.  As part of the program, the Government would reduce several support
prices by March 1985 and free prices for most horticultural products by October
1984.
34.      The key actions that had been taken prior to Board presentation were
the reform and closure of several public entities, the removal of price
controls on several goods and the elimination of most import quotas.   As
described above, and as can be easily noted in the matrix presented in Annex 3,
the program constituted a front loaded SAL.   For second tranche release,
however,  several measures remained to be taken.   By end-May  1984,  the
Government was to: (i) prepare a time-table for lifting the remaining QRs; (ii)
fix maximum and minimum tariff rates; (iii) prepare draft legislation for
replacing the existing industrial and agricultural incentive laws which had to
be approved by the Cabinet; (iv) prepare a detailed public sector investment
budget for 1984, compatible with the agreed Investment Program and with the
priorities of the Structural Adjustment Program; (v) ensure that the State-
owned cement company, Cemento Bayano, not extend existing pricing arrangements
for the commercialization of cement beyond their termination date; and (vi)
make satisfactory progress in the studies financed under the TAL.
C. Implementation and Results
35.      In February 1984, the IMF Board approved of Panama's performance in
1983 under the Stand-by (see para.. 90). Bank supervision missions reviewed the
public sector's financial performance for 1983 and found a remarkable
improvement in public expenditure control.
7/ See Annex 3, Seccion 1.2.



36.      On February 13, 1984, shortly after the disbursement of the flrst
tranche of the SAL, the President resigned from office because of opposltion
by the military to hli candldacy in the Nay elections. A Bank mission was ln
Panama at the time and returned satisfied wlth the commitment of the new
Presldent and the new Cabinet to the SAL program.  However, some political
analysts believe that the views of the new preeldent, ideologically opposed to
the measures agreed with the Bank, affected negatlvely the $mplementat'on of
the SAL conditions, slowlng the compliance with the legally blnding conditlons
and dilregarding some of the non-legally blnding conditions.
37.      In general, the early months of 1984 were a difflcult period for
Panama because of the Presidential election campaign scheduled for May 6 of
that year. For some weeks before the ilection, government operations came to
a standstill. However, soon afterwards, the Government was able to concentrate
again on economic matters and all conditLons for the release of the second
tranche were met, as described in the following paragraphs.  A factor that
contributed to getting the economic program back on track was that the
commercial banks had tied the disbursements of their own refinancing credit for
1983 and 1984 to satisfactory progress under SAL I and the IMF Stand-by.
ComDliance with Conditionality for Second Tranche Release
38.      The New Draft Incentives Laws.  On June 21, 1984 the Cabinet approved
drafts for the revision of the Agricultural and Industrial Incentives Laws.
The proposals represented major improvements over previous legislation and
important steps in the promotion of exports. Studies of industrial protection
and agricultural pricing which had been flnanced under the TAL provided
important inputs in the preparation of these drafts.
39.      Within the Industrial Incentives B$il, a significant reform was the
proposal to eliminate disc: etionary indlvidual Contracts with the Nation as the
vehicle for providing incentives and its replacement by a method which would
treat all firms on an equal basis.   To stimulate exports and engender
competitiveness, the draft included reforms in the rate of protection to
industries and treated new and existing ones differently. For new industries,
initial nominal protection would be set at no more than 30% which would be
reduced to 25% after 3 years.   For existing industries,  initial nominal
protection rates would vary between 10% and 80% but these would be reduced by
20% yearly to a final level of no more than 30%. For new industries, the draft
encouraged exports by providing full import duty exonerations as well as
exonerations from all other taxes.
40.      The reforms of the draft Agricultural IncentLves Law concentrated on
eliminating the previous objectLve of self-sufficiency and encouraging the
production of goods ln which Panama had a comparative advantage.   Price
controls on agrlcultural equipment and inputs would be lifted and annual
targets for import substitution would be eliminated.
41.      Durlng the superviseon misso0n of June, the President-elect indlcated
his interest in presenting these drafts to the Legislative Assembly by October
1984. However, the bills were not submitted to the LegLelatLve Assembly and
were never made public. No reform of any kind was taken until the next round
of the SAL process in March 1986 (see para. 49).



- 10 -
42.      Trade REform.  A number of related trade reforms were included among
the conditions for second tranche release due to their importance in the
process of trade liberalization. The Government prepared a timetable for the
elimination of the remaining quantitative restrictions, excluding quotas on 12
sensitive agricultural items. The actions covered by the timetable were to be
completed b* March 1985. Parallel to this program was the lifting of price
controls on producto previously subject to quotas.  Progress was init_'ally
slow; official -regulations lifting quantitative restrictions on the designated
products were not published and the Price Regulation Office continued to
publish price ceilings. However, to be able to meet the conditions necessary
for the release of the second tranche, the authorities directed the Price
Regulation Office to lift all price controls on the products for which the
quotas had already been removed. The Government also established as a goal a
10% minimum tariff.
43.     IThe B4vano Cement Comgany (Cemento Bavanol. The Government ended the
pricing arrangement in the cement industry between the state owned-plant and
the only private cement company operating in Panama.Y  The remaining two
conditions (satisfactory 1984 investment budget and satisfactory progress in
the TAL studies) were also complied with.
44.      The second tranche was released on June 30, 1984.  Some of the agreed
upon measures which were expected by second tranche release, but were not
legally binding (i.e. a part of the overall program, but not tranche release
conditions), such as the simplification of export incentives (CATs), had not
been implemented. However, Bank staff were then very optimistic on the outcome
of the program due to the commitment expressed by the future President, a
former regional vice president of the Dank.   Nevertheless, following the
release of the second tranche, progress under the program slowed down and many
measures were not fully carried out, -ncluding the removal of the remaining
quotas and of price controls, the reduction of support prices and the enactment
of the proposed IndustrLal and Agricultural Incentives Laws. The legislation
on incentives, which were supposed to reach Congress by the end of 1984, was
not even made public. Also, several new Contracts with the Nation were approved
(see para. 48).
IV. SAL II
A. The Period Between SAL I and SAL II
45.      Initially, the Bank moved rapidly to prepare SAL II.  Bank staff were
aware that thie needed to be a more demanding and therefore more difficult
operation than SAL I, as it would cut deeper into the interests of powerful
interest groups and require the approval by the Assembly of certain laws.
Therefore, the Bank planned to front-load the program, disbursing against
actions taken and not against promises of future measures. Appraisal of SAL II
was programmed for January 1985. Thie original schedule could not be kept due
8/ However, a proposed cut in the cement price in July 1984 was not imple-
mented.



- 11 -
tot (i) backtracking on conditions of SAL It and ($i) disagreements on the
content of the SAL II program. This situation lasted until early 1986.V
46.      During January and February 1986, there were intense negotiations on
the content of a new Letter of Development Policy and the draft. of the three
laws (industrial incentives, agricultural incentives and labor code reform)
required by the Bank as a condition for going forward with SAL II (the approval
by Congress of the incentive laws by end 1984 was a condition of SAL I).
Disagreement continued on the industrial incentive law and on the exact nature
of the policy changes in agriculture.  A key breakthrough occurred in late
February 1986 when the Bank accepted a limited reform of the industrial
incentive law.   At the same time, the Panamanian authorities proposed to
undertake several measures for social security reform, an issue which had not
been previously included in the policy matrix.  Ultimately, the Industrial
Incentive Law had an adequate time horizon, but in substance there was no major
trade liberalization.W
47.      In  March  1986,  the  proposed  reforms  in  industrial  incentive,
agricultural and labor code legislation were approved by the Congress. At the
same time, an Aide Memoire between the Bank and the Panamanian authorities
established a timetable of monitorable actions that would be required for
processing the proposed SAL II. The compliance with this timetable was not
smooth. Actions were seldom taken by the specified date. The Aide Memoire was
renegotiated in May 1986, when appraisal was concludad.  It was then recom-
mended to increase the size of the loan, due to agreement on a reform of the
Social Security System.   The justification for such an increase, however,
appears weak.   Implementation of the agreed actions continued to be slow,
especially in the agricultural sector were the minister was uncooperative.
Board presentation was delayed due to Cabinet disagreements with respect to the
reform of the Social Security System. Finally, the Bank waived the condition
of Cabinet approval of a Social Security Reform draft law.WJ'
48.      In April 1986, a Bank mission visited Panama to begin the preparation
of a PCR for SAL I1.2 It found that compliance with SAL I conditions was
9/ See Annex 4 Part A for an account of these differences and the main
events of 1985.
10/ The initial position of the Bank was to uphold the trade reform
described in the 1984 draft: to lower import tariffs to 30% maximum
(and 10% minimum) in five years. The GOP had proposed to lower import
tariffs to 65% maxi$um over a 10 year period with three years of
grace. Finally, it was agreed to reduce tariffs to 60% (with excep-
tions) over a five year period; the minimum import tariff would be 3%.
11/ The events summarized in this paragraph are described in more detail
in Annex 4, Part B. The Bank's reaction towards the difficulties in
the implementation of the conditions appear to be important in
explaining the difficulties encountered after SAL II was approved (see
para. 106).
2/ The fi.ndings of this misston form the basis of the "Actions Taken"
column for SAL I, in Annex 3.



- 12 -
mixed by then. Several actions scheduled to be completed after second tranche
release (e.g. removal of export controls on fish meal and coffee, sale of the
Hotel Contadora) had not been taken as expected, while a substantial number of
new Contracts with the Nation had been approved after October 1984 in spite of
the commitment to approve only renewals. As regards the measures taken before
second tranche release of SAL I, it was found that administrative actions had
partly or fully negated some of the reforms involved (e.g. some import quotas).
Practically all of these were tackled in SAL 1I, except for the new Contracts
with the Nation, that remained in effect. The Bank accepted the argument of
the GOP that it could not legally repeal these contracts.
49.      SAL II (for $100 million) was finally approved on December 11, 1986.
The second tranche (of $50 Million) due in March 1987 was canceled in December
1987 at the Government's request (see para. 75).
50.      Panama's economic situation at the time of loan approval was not good.
The economy had not grown in 1983-84, as several autonomous elements adversely
affected the growth in services; and the completion of the first stage of the
La Fortuna hydroelectric dam and the oil pipeline, and the reduction in the
housing program (as a result of a SAL I agreement) reduced construction
activity. The Government had concluded in July 1985 a Stand-by Arrangement
through 1987, with a fiscal deficit target in 1986 of 1.2% of GDP. In late
1985 an agreement had been reached to reschedule amortization owed to
commercial banks for 1986 and 1987. In September 1986, the Paris Club also
agreed to reschedule half of maturities due to its members. The outcome of
those financial postponements and new credits was that the share of inter-
national organizations in official foreign debt rose from 14% in 1980 to 23%
in 1985. By the end of 1986, the stock of debt represented over 70% of GDP and
debt service required over 30% of government revenue. Around $2100 million
was owed to commercial banks (55% to U.S. banks); of the remainder (approx-
imately $1400 million), 70% was owed to multilateral agencies.
B. The Adiustment ProaramW
51.      The program included reforms in the public, the industrial and the
agricultural sectors, and in labor market regulation.
Public Sector Efficiency
52.       The main issues to be addressed in this sector were:  (i) closure or
sale of several public enterprises; (ii) reduction of public employment;
(iii) preparation of a public investment program for the period 1986-1987
consistent with the priorities of the development strategy; and (iv) reform of
the social security system.
53.      To increase public savings the Government  intended to continue
restructuring agencies, and closing or divesting those state enterprises that
had required large amounts of subsidies.   By Board presentation, the Seed
Company (ENASEM) and Azuero (or Las Cabras) Sugar Mill had been closed and two
other enterprises hal been sold. Two additional enterprises from a list of
12/ A summary of the actions taken and those agreed for second tranche
release can be found in Annex 3.



- 13 -
three had to be sold by Aprll 1987. These measures were going to cause some
public employees to be lald off. In addltlon to the closLng and dlvestltures,
the authorities expected to reduce the nublic sector labor force by 2% ln 1986.
Consequently, wage related publlc expendltures would be decreased. DespLte
being a polltlcally difficult issue, thlo was essentLal because wage-related
expendltures represented a large share of public expendltures, and other areas
of public expendlture had already been heavily cut durlng the SAL I program.
54.      Durlng 1984 and 1985, the Soclal Security Agency had facod near-term
liquLdLty problems which had malnly resulted from the fallure of the Government
to pay lts contributlons and lnterest obllgatlons ln cash, the defLiLt of some
of lts speclal penslon programs, and poor admLnistratLon. Furthermore, studles
flnanced by the TAL had revealed serious medlum-term structural problems ln the
penslon program: first, demographic trends toward an older population; second,
generous penslon paymencs; and thlrd, extremely low optlonal ages of retlrement
wlth full benefits.   Although polltlcally sensltlve, reformlng the Social
Securlty Agency was essential to lmprove the medlum-term finances of the public
sector and to reduce rLsLng wage taxes due to larger contributlons. In thle
respect, glven the country's relatlvely hlgh wage structure and lnabillty to
l.ncrease wage competLtLveness through adjustments ln the exchange rate, lt was
lmportant to remove excess costs related to labor. For second tranche release
the GOP was to reform the Pension Law and the Leyes EspecLales (the special
regime for publlc employees) and to reduce the work force of the Social
SecurLty Agency.
Industrial and Trade Policy
55.      The main reforms lncluded ln the program were:  (i) eliminatlng all
but 20 import quotas; (li) the substitutlon of Contracts wlth the Natlon wlth
a simple industrlal regLstry; (LLL) establlshment of mlnimum and maximum tariff
levels; and (iv) accordlng greater emphasLs to ad valorem tarlffs. Many of
these reforms were embodled under the new Industrlal Incentives Law whlch was
passed ln March, 1986 and substltuted Law No. 413 of December 1970.
56.      Under the new Industrial Incentlves Law, Contracts with the Natlon
signed on a company-by-company basis were abollshed and substltuted by an
Industrial Registry which allowed equal Lnvestment incentLves for all flrms.
Furthermore, the Law establlshed new maxlmum and mlnlmum tarlff levels. The
new maxlmum tarlff level of 60% established was double the 30% maximum under
the SAL I program. Tarlffs on exlstlng Lndustries would decrease over a flve
year perlod to an ad valorem tariff of no more than 60% of import LIF costs,
except for a group of products whi:h, for reasons of natlonal lnterest, would
remaln at 90% at the end of the perlod. Tarlff protection for new products
:ould not be hlgher than 20%, except 30% for lndustrial goods of agrlcultural
origin. Finally, flscal lncentlves were larger for fLrms located in speclflc
geographlcal areas.
57.      The authorlties lntended to contlnue the process of converting
quantLtatLve restrLctLons lnto tarLffs lnltlated during the SAL I perlod and
lnterrupted as the more polltlcally entrenched quotas were reached; only 20
quotas concentrated on agricultural products were to be left ln place by
June 30, 1986.



- 14 -
Emilovment Policy
58.      Panama's Labor Code, enacted in 1972 and amended in 1976 and 1981, had
introduced rigidities in the labor market restraining employment creation and
segmenting the market. Under the provisions of the Code dismissing personnel
became costly as did any measures rewarding productivity.   In March 1986,
amendments to the Labor Code were approved by the legislature.   The first
change introduced was to expand the definition of small enterprises; such
enterprises were exempted from the clauses of the Code regarding dismissal.
Other changes concerned overtime, piecework to allow the establishment of
productivity pay schemes and the administration of the Code to reduce abuses.
Aaricultural Policy
59.      The specific measures included in the program were:  (i) to reform
agricultural legislation; (ii) to revise the role of public institutions in
agriculture; and (iii) to liberalize agricultural trade and pricing policy.
60.      Along with the Industrial Incentives Law, an Agricultural Incentives
Law had been passed in March, 1986, replacing Law No. 19 of October 5, 1982.
The new piece of legislation gave greater emphasis to efficiency and com-
parative advantage and removed mandated quantitative goals of self-sufficiency.
The Governmc,nt planned to accompany these reforms with appropriate institu-
tional actions and changes in pricing policy. Some of these policy changes
concerned the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA) which was to discontinue
its previous marketing activities and restrict itself to warehousing, and
providing price and market information. The Government intended to be less
involved in Pricing Policv and to place greater reliance on the interplay of
market forces. Support prices, as well as import quotas, were to be removed
with the exception of a few products.   The quotas were to be replaced by
tariffs and reduced in three equal steps to new maximum tariff levels.
Controlled prices on consumor goods were also to be lifted. These measures
were expected to reorient price signals to items where Panama has a comparative
advantage. Furthermore, the removal of support prices was also to result in
savings tc) the treasury; domestic prices had been partly supported through
direct subsidies and had become a fiscal drain. Additional sources of fiscal
drain in this sector were to be eliminated by closing or divesting inefficient
public sector activities (para. 55).
Condltions for Second Tranche Release
61.      The specific actions to be completed before the second tranche release
were that the Government would have: (i) completed its program to reduce the
public sector work force by 2%; (Li) taken all necessary measures to strengthen
the administrative capabilities of the Social Security Agency (Caja de Seguro
Social); (iii) provided evidence that the disability, old age and survivor
pension programs had been reformed in manner consistent with an actuarially
sound financial basis and that the special pension program of government
workers had been amended (Leyes Especiales); (iv)   reduced   tariff   rates
applicable to the importation of agricultural products; (v) divested from
publlc ownership three of the following enterprisess Citricos de Chiriqui,
Aeroperlas S.A., Hotel Contadora, and Ingenio el Alanje; (vi) completed the
reorganization of the Instituto de Mercado Agropecuario (IMA); and (vii)



- 15 -
provided zatisfactory evidence that the Government's external financing for
1987 could be met.
C. Implementation and Results
62.      Progress in compliance of the Government with SAL II conditionality
declined considerably over time, and from early 1987 on the Government was
unable to take any significant economic measures.
63.      In May 1987, staff who reviewed the agricultural sector conditionality
were extremely critical of Panama's compliance in this area. The schedule for
tariff reduction had not been announced, commodity specific "Comisiones
Nacionales" were monitoring prices and establishing quotas in violation of
SAL I and SAL II agreements, and there were even attempts by a group within the
ruling party to repeal the agricultural law. In summary, very little of what
the Bank had asked in agricultural policy was in fact being done. The mission
finally agreed with the GOP on a schedule of tariff reductions for rice, maize,
onions and beans in the 1987-1989 period.  These reductions were a second
tranche release condition.
64.      In June 1987, several key events took place.  General Noriega was
accused of drug trafficking, planning political assassinations and other
political crimes. These charges led to the first civil disturbances in Panama
since 1964. The worsening fiscal crisis forced the GOP to suspend principal
and interest payments on foreign debt owed to governments and principal
payments to commercial banks.
65.      By end July 1987, Panama had only complied with three of the seven
second tranche release conditions. It hads (i) strengthened the administra-
tion of the Social Security Agency; (ii) reduced agricultural tariffsl and
(iii) completed the reorganization of INA. By mid-August there had been no
progress and some reversals, especially in the agricultural sector where some
price controls were formally reinstated and IMA started to intervene in imports
and prices again. The following paragraphs discuss compliance with the second
tranche release conditions in more detail.
66.      Public Sector Work Force.  Different statistics give contradictory
information with respect to this condition, but the figures supplied by
Pireccion de Estadistica v Censo indicated that, instead of declining, the
public sector work force increased between 1986 and 1987, especially within the
Central Government.
67.      Social  Security Reforms.   Various measures were carried out to
strengthen the CCS administration including a reduction in its work force and
in the losses of the health care program and the Complementary Fund (that
finances higher pensions for retired public employees). However, the reforms
of Leyes Especiales and the Social Security Pension scheme were not imple-
mented.
68.      Privatization Prooram.   The Government was able to sell Hotel
Contadora and Aeroperlas.  In addition, either the El Alanjo sugar mill or
Citricoe de Chiriqui were to be sold prior to the second tranche. However, at
the end of 1987, both entities remained under government operation.  In the



- 16 -
case of El Alanje sugar mill, output was being dumped in world markets at a
lose.
69.      Flscal Performance.  Having an acceptable flnancial plan ln place for
1987 was a conditlon for the disbureement of the second tranche. However, the
1987 budget was formulated ln a manner Lnconsistent with available external
financing.   Actual external financing was about $150 million below the
initially expected level, due to Panama's inability to conclude a new stand-by
arrangement wlth the IMF, failure to meet second tranche release conditlons,
and lts consequent lnabillty to obtain new money from commerclal banks.  In
addltlon, publlc savings performance was poorer than ln 1986 as a result of a
rise in recurrent expenditures while revenues were steady.   The lack of
flnanclal resources resulted in the Government cutting investment severely and
in late 1987 starting to incur arrears wlth international creditors.
70.      Acricultural Sector. The GOP complled with the two conditions for the
sector, in part because the Bank was prepared to accept to change the schedule
for tariff reduction in agriculture, postponlng lt beyond the span of influence
of the loan but asking for a formal announcement of the timetable, and accepted
a minor change in the operatlon of IMA as sufficient. A waiver was never
formally requested because the other conditions were not complled with.
71.      Maintenance of First Tranche Conditions.  Along with the monitoring
of the second tranche conditions, the Bank followed progress on the actions
supported by the firat tranche. The findings were that actions had been taken
as planned, with some reversals in the area of agricultural policy.
72.      In manufacturing, the implementation of the Industrlal Incentlves Law
proceeded smoothly wlth flrms joining the new registry; some firms renounced
their Contracts with the Nation. The second of the flve tarlff cuts to be
applied to existing products was implemented.   Progress had been achieved
towards a more unlform tariff system.
73.      In agriculture, several measures were undertaken during 1987 that
reversed the actions supported by the firat tranche. The Comisiones Nacionales
established under the Law in March, 1986 as commodity-specific committees for
research and the provislon of advlce and consultatlon had been informally
controlling imports of agricultural products through dlfferent mochanlsms
lncludlng animal and plant regulatlons. Although IMA stopped its function of
setting producer prices as the program had planned, the Comisiones Nacionales
de facto established support prices. These actions contradLeted the objectLves
of both SAL I and II ln the area of agriculture.
74.      Furthermore, after the liberalization of consumer prices, a system of
price controls operated initlally for some products. In July-August of 1987,
formal controls were relnstated by the Price Control Office (ORP) on several
items such as onions, chLcken, eggs and fish. New products were brought under
price control during the remaining part of the year.
75.      A mission in the fleld in August 1987 concluded that the Bank should
be prepared to cancel the balance of the loan, as it appeared impossible that
the GOP would comply with second tranche conditions. By the end of August, the
Minleter of Plannlng and Economic Policy had confirmed that there was no chance
of compllance wlth SAL II condLtionalLty.   The Bank then suggested to the



- 17 -
Minister that Panama should request the cancellation of the loan before its
closing date. In the meantime, Panama incurred arrears in its payments to the
Bank and disburuementa on operations in the country were suspended in November
1987.   On Deceaber 14, 1987 the GOP asked for cancellation of the second
tranche of $?dL II; the Bank agreed, making it effective as of the date of
r-uest.  The loan's closing date was December 31, 1987.
V. THE TAL
A. Introduction
76.      A Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) for US$5 million accompanied SAL I
and financed technical assistance and studies to support further public sector
reforms. It aimed at providing the Government with the necessary information
and analysis for decision making in priority sectors in support of its
structural adjustment program.
77.      The project included the following studies and technical assistance
activities:   (i) analysis of trade and price polici*s in the agricultural
sector; (ii) strengthening of agricultural institutions, including training;
(iii) actuarial, financial, administrative and managerial studies of the Social
Security Agency and technical assistance to strengthen it, including staff
training; (iv) evaluation of the level of effective protection in the
industrial sector; (v) study of the health system; and (vi) multi-modal
transport study of Panama City-Colon Corridor.
B. Description of the Studies
Studies in the Aaricultural Sector
78.      The studies were to be carried out in two areas:  (i) price and trade
policies; and (ii) the state institutions in the agricultural sector.  The
studies aimed at developing specific and detailed recommendations to enable the
Government to reshape the two areas in accordance with the medium term strategy
laid down in the structural adjustment program.
79.      The trade and price policies study was to specifically review the cost
effectiveness and benefits of the current price policies for several products,
and analyze their trade regime.   The study was to provide advice to the
Government on modifying the Agricultural Incentive Law.
80.      Technical assistance related to public institutions was to be in two
phases. In phase one, there would be a study to review the present role of the
principal institutions and to suggest changes to adjust them to the new policy.
Phase two was to consist of direct technical assistance to implement the agreed
recommendations of phase one.
Effective Protection in the Industrial Sector
81.      The replacement of quotas  by ad-valorem  tariffs  required much
technical work to judge the appropriate level of the initial tariff.  This
study was to assist the Government in that task.   Its findings would also
assist the Government in the revision of the Industrial Incentives Law.



- 18 -
Social Security and Health
82.      Among the public entities, the Social Security Agency (CSS) was the
most important in financial terms. The study was to provide a comprehensive
diagnosis of the projected situation of the social security system and would
recommend alternative ways for compliance. it was to include recommendations
on the appropriate legal framework and on management and financial procedures.
The pension system study was to concentrate on an actuarial evaluation and on
the analysis of the appropriateness of the legal requirements to receive a
pension. Finally, the health sector study was to focus on the policies and
strategies of the sector; the availability of health services; and the
institutional arrangements between the CSS and the Ministry of Health.
Multimodal Transport Study of the Panama City - Colon Corridor
83.      The objective of the study was to determine the most economic use of
the trans-isthmian transport alternatives between Panama City and Colon, and
to make recommendations as to the appropriate transport policy and transport
investments for the Corridor.
C. Imclementation and Results
84.      Implementation went smoothly and the stulies were of good quality and
generally helpful to the Government and for the design of SAL II. A summary of
the studies, their main conclusions and actions taken with regard to recommen-
dations are presented in Annex 2.
85.      On December 12, 1986, the GOP asked, and the Bank agreed, to extend
the closing date from December 31, 1986, to December 31, 1987. On November 25,
19S7, the GOP asked again for an extension, from December 31, 1987, to
December 31, 1988. Given the arrears that Panama accumulated with the Bank,
disbursements were suspended on June 30, 1988. The Loan was finally canceled
on July 18, 1989, with an undisbursed balance of US$0.5 million.
86.      There existed what the GOP called phase II of the TAL, in which funds
not used in Loan 1878-PAN (Colon Urban Development) were transferred to the TAL
unit. Several studies were undertaken with these funds, but they have not been
analyzed as they were funded by the technical assistance component of another
loan.  What is relevant to the TAL is that it was charged the expenses of
administering a further US$l million in studies.
87.      A thorough assessment of the relevance of the studies would require
information that I,s not available. Several (i.e. effective protection, trade
and pricing policies, actuarial study of the pension system) were useful for
the policy dialogue and the design of SAL II.   However, very few of the
recommendations of the studies were implemented (see Annex 2). In part, this
was due to the lack of commitment of the GOP to the reforms in the agricultural
sector and the social security system. In part, it was due to the end in 1987
to the lending program.



- 19 -
VI. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE GOVERNMENT'S SHORT-TERM STABILIZATION
PROGRAM AND THE STAND-BY AMRANGEMENT WITH THE IMF
88.      Along with the development of the structural adjustment program in
1983, the Panamanian Govenment prepared a fiscal stabilization program. The
main aim of the program was to lower the public sector deficit from the level
of 11% of GDP reached in 1982.
89.      A number of revenue and expenditure measures were taken to achieve
these goals. The extent to which current expenditures could be reduced was
limited by large interest payments obligations and by commitments made in 1982
for wage and salary increases. Consequently, investment had to bear the burden
of the stabilization program. To support this program, the IMF approved in
July, 1983 a Stand-by Arrangement of 150 SDR (about US$173 million) of which
one-third was to be disbursed in 1983 and the remainder in 1984. The main
conditions attached to the Stand-by were public sector deficits of no more than
6% in 1983 and 5.5% in 1984. In addition, there was to be no net increase in
commercial foreign debt.
90.      Although the program targets of 1983 were met and the public sector
deficit declined to 5.7% of GDP, fiscal performance In 1984 weakened.
Revenues declined, reflecting weak economic activity during 1983-1984 while
current expenditures were higher than planned partly due to a large increase
in spending on goods and services by the Central Government. To be able to
compensate for the low level of savings performance, public investment was
again reduced, below it. initially programmed levels. During this period, the
good performance of public entities to control spending was notable.
91.      The Government also initiated negotiations with the commercial banks
to refinance the large amount of amortization obligations falling due in 1983
and 1984, but encountered difficulties due to the commercial banks' concerns
over their exposure in Latin America. As a result of its 1983-1984 stabiliza-
tion and structural adjustment programs, the Government was finally able to
obtain a refinancing of US$278 million signed in September, 1983. Panama also
received funds from other multilateral and bilateral agencies, including IDB
and USAID, and was able to complete the financial package needed to meet the
projected public sector deficits in 1983 and 1984.
92.      The second stabilization program included a series of revenue and
expenditure measures to achieve a public sector deficit of 3.5% of GDP in 1985
and 2.6% in 1986. The main revenue measures were broadening of the income tax
base, change in the import duty valuation base from f.o.b. to c.i.f., and
increases in fees and indirect taxes. With respect to current expendltures,
control of public sector entities' spending was to continue. A wage freeze was
to be implemented for most public sector officials and a reduction of 5000
positions of the Government was to be undertaken in 1985. The overall public
sector deficit was to be financed from external sources and there was to be no
net recourse to National Bank credit, since its liquidity position was becoming
tight. The IMF approved on July 15, 1985 a 21-month Stand-by Arrangement to
support this program for an amount of SDR 90 million.
93.      In late 1985, Panama was able to conclude negotiations with commercial
banks on the rescheduling of amortization falling due in 1985 and 1986 for an



- 20 -
amount of US$579 million and with a new money package of US$60 million.  Part
of these new credits from the commercial banks (US$42 million) and an
additional US$40 million from the USAID Economic Support Fund were to be
disbursed in 1985 conditioned on progress made in negotiating SAL II. Since
the Government was not able to sustain its economic reform program and SAL II
negotiations were not completed in 1985, a short-fall in external financing
arose resulting in the use of net credit from the National Bank and a further
curtailing of the investment program. The public sector deficit amounted only
to 1.7% of GDP. The public sector work force increased during 1985 and 1986;
and there was an overall increase in the real wage of the public sector for
both years, especially for 1985.
94.      Early in 1986, the Government reacted to the financial crisis and
reembarked on its program of structural reforms. The financial stabilization
program was renewed; a new target for the public sector deficit was set at 1.2%
of GDP and investment was to be kept at the low levels of 1985 around 3.8% of
GDP.  The IMF and the Bank collaborated closely with the Government in the
preparation of both programs, especially in the area of public investment.
Performance under the IMF stand-by was satisfactory during 1986.
95.      In both stabilization programs, adjustment in public sector finances
largely came from cuts in investment and, by the second program, public
investment had reached levels barely above the required investment to replace
the depreciation of capital  stock.    Parallel to the public  investment
adjustment, public sector real wages had been increasing since 1982.   If
stronger efforts would have been made to control expenditures on wages and
salaries, current expenditures could have largely been decreased releasing
resources for public investment.
VIZ. EVALUATION OF THE SALs AND THE TAL. AND THE ROLE OF THE BANK
A. p6sign of the Proaram
96.      Approaching the Bank  in 1982 to formulate a SAL program,  the
Panamanian authorities clearly understood the depth and nature of the
adjustments which needed to be undertaken.   Moreover, they recognized the
intensity of the political furor the proposed measures would likely engender
and were prepared to face those problems. These appreciations were reflected
in the design of the SAL program agreed upon with the Bank, the comprehensive
nature of the areas where actions were to be undertaken, and in the timing
established for those measures, in particular the extent of front-loading.
97.      An inventory of the proposed reforms under the program is provided in
Annex 3. This list shows that the areas scheduled for reform in the program
were important. This remains the case even if one excludes the conditions that
were not met, leading to the cancellation of the second tranche of SAL I'. The
overall action plan for the structural adjustment program backed by the SALe,
was a good one. There are, however, important questions about the appropriate-
ness of the design of the specific reform program contained in the SALs.
98.      What is suspect is the effectiveness of the specific changes that were
finally agreed on, particularly their potential contribution to the realization



- 21 -
of the main objectives of the strategy. For example, was the timing of tariff
reductions adequate and the ultimate goal of 60% maximum tariff (with
exceptions at 90%) low enough to produce the desired resource reallocation from
import substitution to export activities? With hindsight, this ultimate goal
was too high. Was the agreed list with maximum tariffs of 90%, including food
products and construction materials inconsistent with the goals of the program,
i.s. to reduce the prices of wage goods? Even if one accepts the idea of
having a limited number of goods exempted from the general process, the
particular selection of goods appear inconsistent with the program. Finally,
the Labor Code had been identified as a major issue but was only marginally
reformed.
99.      Given the nature of the Panamanian economy, reforms of the incentive
system (cum labor code) needed to receive more weight, since its importance in
real appreciation of the exchange rate is larger compared to a conventional
economy where monetization of fiscal deficits has a greater impact on
appreciation. Even though the importance of reforms of the labor code as well
as the system of incentives (agriculture and industry) suggested the need for
front loading these key conditions in SAL II, the legislation passed was not
fully adequate. The Labor Code, as is argued in the 1985 CEM, needs to be
reformed as a whole, and not marginally. In agriculture, Law 2 changed al ture
the philosophy with which the public sector intervened, but de facto things
continued to be handled as they had been before. The industrial sector tariff
regime created by the 1986 law was inadequate to fulfill the goal of gearing
the manufacturing sector towards export promotion and away from import
substitution.  The final dispersion (from 3% to 60%) was too large and the
discrimination against new industries (with a maximum tariff of 20% or 30%)
contributed to a further distortion. The paragraphs that follow discuss the
reasons put forward to justify the design of the loans, in particular of
SAL II.
100.     Bank staff recognized that the maximum tariffs were too high but
viewed i.e measure as the beginning of a trade liberalization program that
would continue later with the structural adjustment program. The Panamanian
structural adjustment process originally had been seen by the staff in the
context of the Bank's experience with other countries (in particular Turkey),
which involved a series of SALs. At that time, it was not considered possible
to achieve more on trade reform under one operation. Furthermore, the proposed
social security reform that was introduced in the program when it was realized
that the trade liberalization component would not be as strong as desired, was
deemed important.
101.     Moreover,  Bank staff accepted that the political costs of going
further would have been too high for the GOP. It is true that the political
capital lost in the approval of the three laws was substantial. A two week
general strike followed the announcement of the laws, at the end of which the
laws were approved by Congress, apparently under heavy pressure from the
Defense Forces. For some political analysts, the date of approval of the three
laws marked a significant date for Panama, the date on which the government
decided to abandon the Torrijos legacy. The approval of the laws appears to
have represented a significant departure from the attitude followed previously
by the GOP. Therefore, it is impossible to judge if this was an opportunity
to be grabbed or if the Bank should have pushed further for more substantive
reforms.



- 22 -
102.     The reforms agreed under SAL I and especially under SAL II, can be
viewed either by the political costs that they entailed or the progress towards
achieving the objectives of the structural adjustment program.   Though the
political costs were substantial, progress was modest. One could consider that
the GOP was making a great effort towards complying with the program if one
judges this effort by the political costs they faced.  To some extent, it
appears that Bank staff were doing this when assessing the GOP performance and
commitment. However, if the maximum political costs a Government is willing
to face is attained with measures that fall below an acceptable threshold of
substantive reform, then the country may not be ready to receive a structural
adjustment loan. In the judgement of this issue the perceived commitment of
the Government should play an important part.  One could argue that it is
reasonable to back a strongly committed Government in an unambitious loan with
great political costs, as a step in a long run effort but, in this case, the
Bank had doubts on the Government's commitment (see paras. 106 and 107).
B. Front Loadina
103.     Front loading was a particularly important element in the design of
SAL I and the extent of those arrangements was cited by the staff as the main
reason for the relatively limited conditionality for rel,'ose of the second
tranche (paras. 17 and 34). The practice was seen as reducing the possibility
that governments would be charged with submitting to external pressures in
undertaking reform, a charge which could often crystallize opposition to those
measures. It would appear that the early measures adopted under SAL I, drafted
in large part by the economic team in consultation with the Bank, did not face
organized oppo,Lt,on.
104.     By tte t.me of preparation of SAL II, the situation had changed
markedly. The viewpoint of the GOP economic team was clearly dlfferent from
the previous team's and Bank staff had doubts about the Government's commitment
to the reform process. Under these circumstances, front loading was seen as
an indispensable means of ensuring the Government's commitment. Since the
approval of SAL II was essential to complete the financial package for 1986,
the Government did comply with the agreed upon measures prior to Board
presentation, permitting loan approval in 1986 (see Annex 4, para. 17).
C. Sustainubilitv
105.     An important issue concerns the sustainability of the reforms which
were adopted. As noted in the earlier discussion, a number of measures taken
in connection with SAL I were subsequently reversed prior to the preparation
of SAL II and reinstating those measures was one of the concerns in negotiating
SAL II. In fact, by 1988, after the cancellation of the balance of SAL II,
most of the substantive measures regarding quotas and price controls which were
targeted under the SAL process had been reversed. This was not a problem of
the design of the loan but the consequence of dealing with a Government which
was experiencing basic political instability and was both unable and unwilling
to formulate a viable economic program.
106.     Faced with doubts on the degree of commitment of the GOP, the Bank
chose to front-load the program.   The strategy failed in the long run, an
policies were reversed.   Two alternative strategies to deal with doubts on
government commitment, and to promote sustainability are briefly considered.



- 23 -
First, if the SAL program is viewed as part of a process, the Government would
have an incentive to comply as otherwise the SAL process would be stopped.U
But the issue is the credibility of whether the Bank will be acting in this
manner. In the case of Panama, conserving its credibility may not always have
been the Bank's main concern. The Bank accepted an increase in the proposed
SAL II loan amount, in the context of rather reluctant compliance under SAL I
and of a program that, overall, does not seem to be significantly stronger than
the original one (Annex 4, para. 12). The Bank subsequently waived what was
considered a key condition for Board presentation (the presentation of a draft
Social Security law to Congress, see Annex 4 para. 18). The second strategy
would be to shift from SALs to smaller SECALs. The shift from SALs to SECALs
would increase the number of instances in which compliance and commitment is
judged before going ahead with the program. The cradibility in the enforcement
of the Bank's conditionality is crucial to both.
107.     One of the important lessons of these loans is the need to reflect on
the issues of Government commitment and the Bank's possible strategy when faced
with doubts about it. In conversations with Bank staff, it was clear that in
SAL II it was difficult to gauge the Government's ultimate commitment to the
reform process, especially because there was a division within the Government
over economic policy. Though the above alternative strategies could be useful,
the evidence suggests that, in the absence of strong government commitment, it
is extremely difficult to design and implement successful policy-based
operations, either for SALs or SECALs.
D. The Role of the Bank
108.     Given the closely shared views of the authorities responsible for the
preparation of SAL I and of the Bank staff working on the operation, the
processing of the loan moved rapidly and smoothly, once the formal request from
the Government was received.  Moreover, Bank staff inputs were only some one-
half of the average prevailing among the earlier SALs.W Much of the details
of the program was elaborated by the Panamanian staff under the general
guidance of the Bank.
109.     The situation for SAL II was very different.  The difficulties in
getting agreement with the Panamanian officials on the necessary measures and
on proper implementation is reflected in the substantial increase in staff
inputs required for this operation.   Considerable staff time was spent in
working out details of proposed actions and on follow-up, given the ambivalence
prevailing within the Government.  Though the follow-up effort was intense,
there appears to have been some weaknesses. As is clear from the preparation
of SAL II, missions were often surprised by developments in the country once
they arrived in Panama. One possible explanation is that staff relied too much
14/ Stopping the SAL program does not necessarily mean severing relations
with the country. In those instances where reform faces, for the
moment at least, insurmountable barriers, the Bank can maintain a core
lending program focusing on social sectors where the macroeconomic
distortions are not likely to affect the social rates of return of
such projects.
~j/ See OED report, No. 6409, dated September 24, 1986.



- 24 -
on official sources to gather information on government actions and apparent
policy changes.
E. Impact of the Program
110.     During the 1983-87 period the economy continued to follow most of the
trends identified beforehand (see paras. 5 to 13). The rate of growth of the
economy continued to decline, in line with the rest of the region. Services
continued to grow at a faster rate than goods production. There was a deep
recession in the industry and construction sectors in 1983-84, that can only
partly be attributed to the program's changes to the housing policy.
Government consumption continued to grow at a faster rate than the economy as
a whole. Public investment, however, decreased by over seven points of GDP.
Private investment also declined. The trend towards reducing the openness of
the economy, measured as the ratio of the sum of exports and imports (including
services) to GDP, also continued. This ratio decreased from 84.8 in 1982 to
63.4 in 1987 (see Annex 1, Table A.2). Both in the size of the public sector,
and in the degree of openness of the economy, there is little evidence that the
program had a significant impact, though it was intended to.  This lack of
impact of the structural reform component, at least during the 1983-87 period,
is probably due to the design of the program (see above). However, the
stabilization component was successful, as both the current account and the
public sector deficits were reduced by 1987 to one tenth of the 1982 levels.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
A. AccomDlishments of the SALs
Ill.     The fundamental objectives of the SALs were:   (i) to increase the
efficiency and reduce the size of the public sector; and (ii) to change the
incentives in agriculture and industry from import substitution to export
promotion. Neither of these objectives was fully met.
112.     While there was successful privatization and closing of public
enterprises, overall the size of the public sector grew. By the end of 1987,
current expenditure continued at the same level as a percentage of GDP, as when
the program started.   Furthermore, the number of employees in the central
government increased by an annual average of 4.6% between 1983 and 1987.
Controlling the size of the public sector was a condition of both SALs and a
reduction of the number of employees in the public sector of 2% was a specific
condition of SAL II. Regarding the reduction of budgetary deficits, which were
integral components of the conditions for IMF Stand-by, all of the reductions
were due to declining public investment.  The appropriateness of the budget
strategy actually pursued was called into question several times by the Bank
in its discussions with the IMF.  As regards measures to shift incentives,
those that were taken (e.g. the industrial incentive law) were insufficient and
many were reversed, either officially or unofficially through administrative
discretion (see paras. 48 and 73).
113.     By early 1988, the measures taken fell considerably short of what was
expected at the time the loans were made. SAL I was successful in meeting its
immediate objectives: abolition of a large number of import quotas, closure



- 25 -
of a major sugar mill, stricter control over public expenditures and in setting
the agenda for the reform process. However, the release of the second tranche
was followed, by a period of backsliding. SAL II was considerably delayed due
to this backtracking and disagreements on the content of the SAL II program.
This situation lasted until early 1986, when agreement was reached on the
content of three key laws. In substance, these laws were not strong enough to
attain the objectives of trade liberalization and labor market flexibility (see
para. 90). Overall, SAL I1 was successful in finishing some of the processes
started by SAL I, but was too weak in several key areas. Most of the actions
included in the second tranche were not taken, and many of the first tranche
conditions, especially concerning agriculture, were reversed.
114.     With respect to the TAL, implementation went very smoothly and the
studies in general were of good quality. Several studies (i.e. on effective
protection, trade and pricing policies, and the actuarial study of the pension
system) were very useful for the policy dialogue and the design of SAL II.
However, very few of the recommendations of the other studies were implemented.
B. causes of Failure
115.     In sum, the SAL program, and in particular SAL II, was not very
successful. What were the factors that contributed to the lack of success? Was
the key issue that the program was incorrectly designed? Or was it just a
problem of Government commitment? Could this lack of commitment have been
detected before the loan was designed?  If this is the case, what should the
Bank have done?
116.     A plausible answer to these questions is that there were flaws in the
design (see paras. 98 and 99), but the program could be seen as initiating a
process which, if deepened, could address the fundamental problems. The key
issue is that the GOP was not committed to the program, especially under
SAL II. Bank staff were aware that the GOP authorittes saw the SAL primarily
as the means to cover the budgetary deficit and as absolutely essential to
complete the external financial package, and that they were not sufficiently
convinced of the need for structural reforms. Nonetheless, the Bank went ahead
with the loan. The lack of an appropriate strategy to deal with this lack of
commitment then became a problem.   Given the doubts about commitment, the
decision to go ahead relied on the leverage the Bank had to withhold the
disbursement  of  the  second  tranche.    This  strategy,  however,  requires
credibility that the Bank would take such action, which in the case of Panama,
the Government seemed to doubt (see para. 106). This undermined the possi-
bility of effectively using this leverage, as the GOP thought that it was
possible to change the second tranche conditionality in case of non-compliance.
This impression could have been based on the mild-trade liberalization reform
accepted by the Bank; on the fact that the Bank accepted to increase the size
of the loan, a decision that did not appear warranted by the increased
substance of the program; and finally, because the Bank waived the condition
of Cabinet approval of a Social Security Reform draft law before Board
presentation (see Annex 4, paras. 12 and 18). The decision to go ahead without
sufficient safeguards with the loan, given the doubts about government
commitment and the fact that second tranche conditions were concentrated in the
areas were most difficulties were being encountered and expected (social
security and agriculture), appears to have been questionable. Staff at the time
thought the GOP had complied with several conditions during 1986 and the



- 26 -
condition of approving the draft by the Cablnet should not be used to stop the
loan at such a late stage, especially given the importance it had for the
Government's 1986 financlal program. Furthermore, faced with those doubts on
the degree of commitment of the GOP, the Bank, to mLnimize uncertainty, had
chosen to front-load the program. But the strategy failed, as policies were
later reversed.   The strategies followed to cope with the doubts about
commltment appear to have been Lnadequate, and the question remains if lt is
possible to design successful policy-based operations when the Government is
not committed to the program.
C. Key Issues for Possible Future Onerations
117.    The SAL process described above ended with an unfinished agenda that
remains relevant. The major items on the policy agenda are: (i) reform of the
Labor code; (Li) trade reform; (iii) efficiency of the public sector-
especLally public utilities; and (iv) health and social security reforms.
Among these the following can be considered priorities: 1) Pursue to their
conclusion the reforms initiated under SAL I. This means abolishing import
quotas and prLic controls, reducing tariffs and reforming social securLty; and
2) reform public utilities, which would have been the central objective of a
possible third structural adjustment loan, had SAL II ended successfully.
These isoues are being addressed under an Economic Recovery Credit which is at
an advanced state of preparation.
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECT1VM
The Borrower declined to comment (see Attachment)



- 27 -
PART m: STATISTICAL IORMA
STRUCIURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
(LOAN 2357-PAN)
BASIC DATA $HEE'M
Amounts (USS millioon)
LOAN POSMON
OuManding
Origial      Disburd       Canceled      Rooai      As of 2/29/
Loan 2357-PA        60.2          60.2          0.00         24.85         35.35
K:EY Plt](RAM DATAQ
Onlinal Loan DatActual or Restimatd
LIitiating Memorandum                     05/09183                      05/09/82
LJtter of Development Policy              08/30/83                      08/30/83
Negotiations                              09/30/83                      09/30/83
Board Approval                            11/15/83                      11/15/83
Loan/Credit Agreement                     11/23/83                      11/23/83
Effectiveness                             12/13/83                      12/13/83
Loan/Credit Closing                       12/31/84                      12/31/84
Actual Completion                         06/30/84                      06/30/84
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Planned                                       60.2
Actual                                        60.2
Actual as % of Planned                        100.0
Date of Final Disbursement: July 30, 1984
STAP INPUT
(Manweeks)
FY83    FY84    EI8        PY8      E21    EX2  1 EOAL
Preparation         7.5       -        -         -        -        -       7.5
Appraisal          12.1     23.1       -        -         -        -      35.2
Negotiations         -       6.8       -         -        -        -       6.8
Supervision         _2. M2                     0.8      8.       2,2     2
Sub-Total        19.6    42.2       2.2      0.8      8.1      2.3      75.2



- 28 -
MIS$1ND
Month/        No. of      No. of      Staff      Date of
Yea          Wrmek                   Weeks P oR
Preparation         Feb. 1983          2            3          6         n.d.
Appraisal           June 1983          2            9         18       07/22/83
Supervision I       Feb. 1984          3            9         27       03/14/84
Supervision II      June 1984           1           3          3       06/21/84
Completion          April 1986         1            2          2       04/11/86
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
Operation:             Strctural Adjustment Loan H
Loan No.:              2768-PAN
Amount:                US$100.0 million
Board Date:            December 11, 1986
Operation:             Economic Recovety
Loan No.:              3438-PAN
Amount:                US$120.0 million
Board Date:            Febnray 20, 1992



-29-
TECHNICAL A UBOA
(LOAN 2358-PAN)
Amkounts (US$ milion)
LOA
Chigbw       DiSuuo        CAuHxpd        RUMMg      A   f z9
Loan 2358-PAN         5.0          4.5           0.5           1.92          2.58
BX 1RCQB DATA
Oneins Low Date.cudo  g:WU
Initiating Memorandum                     0/09/83                       05/09/83
Laer of Developntn Policy                  08/30/83                      08/30/83
Negotiations                               09/30/83                      09/30/83
Board Apprval                              11/15/83                      11/15/83
Loan/Cnedit Agreement                      11/23/83                      11/23/83
Effectiveness                              12/13/83                      12/13/83
Loan/Credit Closing                        IV31/86                       06/30/89
Actual Completon                           06/30/89                      06/30/89
CUMUATIV LOA  IBUSMN
EM  EM  E  EM  ElM  E8
Paned                        1.5     4.1      S.0     5.0      S.0     5.0
Actu                        2.07    2.98    3.76    4.16    4.16       4.S
Acud as % of Planned       138.0    72.7    7S.2    83.2    83.2    90.0
Date of Findl Disbursement: July 11, 1D88
STAPP NPU
ElMEM  ElM  ElM  ElM ElM ElM        E12L
Preparation     1.1         -      -      -      -      -      -      -          1.1
Appraisl        2.9   7.4       -      -      -     -      -      -      -      10.3
Negotiaons        -    3.8      -      -      -     -      -      -      -       3.8
Supervision       -   10.0  14.1   9.2    0.2   5.3   0.9   3.6          -      43.3
Other            -.      .    _x      _    0.    Q.1               .   OA
Sub-Totd      4.0  21.2  14.1   9.2    0.5   5.8   0.9   3.6   0.4    59.7



- 30 -
MISSION DATA
Mouth/           No. of   No. of       Staff     Dateof
. Year           Weeks EWeU   Reom
Pftparon
Appraisal                  June 1983            2           8          16    07/20/83
Supervision I              Feb. 1984            3           9          27    03/14/84
Superviion I               June 1984            1           5           S    07/09/84
Supervision m              Aug. 1984            1           3           3    08/28/84
Supervision IV             Dec. 1984            1           3           3    01/31/8$
Supervision V            March 1985             2           1           2    03/19/85
Supervision VI             Oct. 1985            1           1           1    10/16/85
Supervision VII           April 1986            1           2           2    05/08/86
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
None



-31 -
SitRUCTwURAL ADJUSMIRNT LOAN n
(LOAN 2768-PAN)
BASIC DAT  SH3L
Amounts (USS million)
LQAN POSMTON
Oustning
(diul        Di&uo         CB ncold       BMW        Asof 229/92
Lon 2768-PA         100.0         49.83          50.!7         8.25         41.58
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Original LUan Dates           1    or R _U
Initiating Memorandum                      05/31185                      05/31/85
Letter of Development Policy               08/12/86                      08/1V86
Negotiations                               09108186                      09/08/86
Board Approval                             12/11/86                      1VII/86
Loan/Credit Agreement                      12/12/86                       12/12/86
Effectiveness                              12/12/86                       12/12/86
Loan/Credit Closing                        12/31/87                       12/31/87
Actual Completion                          12/31/87                       12131/87
CUMULTIVEANSUSElN
Planned                                        100.0
Actual                                         49.8
Acul as % of Planned                           49.8
Date of Final Disbursement: December 17, 1986
(Manweeks)
FY8    EM        EY87   ElM       EY8    EI2R    P9    E9   TO L
Prepaation      19.0    39.5       -       -        -       -        -        -     58.S
Appraisal         -     21.0    13.8       -        -       -        -       -      34.8
Negotiations      -       -     40.3       *        *       *        *       *      40.3
Supervision      _       _       1.               OA      104    1          44    45
Sub-Total    19.0    60.5    65.4       6.4     0.6    10.4    12.5       4.4   179.2



- 32 -
ISSION A
Montb/           No. of   No. of       Staff      Dte of
-Yis             Wooks   pierons       Weeks      Repor
Prepmidon                  OcL 1984               2          3           6     11/05/84
Appmil I                   June 1985              2          2           4    06/24/85
Past Appaisl I             April 1986             2          6          12    05/13/86
Past Appraal H             May 1986               1          3           3    05/29/86
Past Appniul m              July 1986             1          4           4    08/05/86
Supersion I                 Jan. 1987             2          3           6    02/09/87
Suvdision I               March 1987              2          6          12    05/04/87
Supervision m              Dec. 1987              1          3           3     12/31/87
FOLL,OW-ON &U?BSMENT OPERATIlONS
Opeation:                 Economic Rocovery
Loan No.:                 3438-PAN
Amount:                   US$120.0 million
Boatd Date:               February 20, 1992



- 33 -
Anninx 1
Page 1 of 3
TMSLE A.1I
PANAMA. QoNESIC EWIONIC INDICATORS
BROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                 17T      1819      1919      1926      1918      2008     2076      2124      1764
(Miltiom of U.S. dollars
at 1970 prices)
iGRICULTUtE & MINING                   177       192       193       194       197      206       202       217       200
riculture                             174      18       189       191       194       204       199      214       198
ning                                    3         4        4         3         3         2         3         3        2
INDUSTRY & CONSTRUCTION                306       304       339       283   264267        278      282       182
ndustry                                182       176       1S0      177       176       179       183       190       146
onstruction                            124       128       159      106        BB        aS        92        92       36
;ERVICES                              1263      1323      1387      1449      1457      1535     1596      1625      1402
ectricfty,ges,mater                    54        56       59        65        64        69        73        78        76
amer,e rsrn.,hotels                    256       253      251       239       240       251       255       244       183
ansport,eCounication                  372       394      430       496       480       513       525       547      501
IL pipeline activfty                   19       21        43       166       138       157       138       148      123
oLon freene                            83        84        71       51        55        64        SO        aS        75
anamucana  comis_Icon                 176       1S8      205       175       175       177       186       1S8       193
ther                                   94       101      111       104       112       115       121       123       110
nancmil IntermdiationCl)               96        06       111       91        94        99       109       108        83
ousing(2)                              131       137       142      146       149       154       161       168       164
overnmnt servIc s                      201       223       232      241       248       259       265       272       264
ither scrvfces(3)                      172       180       202       214      228       235       250       252       184
aport taxes                             2S        28        28       33        33        36        42        40        1S
ess:lqauted bkIn n serv.                47        54        68       76        79        81        84        86        68
SHMRE() -.--.--G--- -          ---- GROAN RATES (X) ---------------------
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT               100.0       4.2      5.5       0.3      -0.3       4.7       3.4       2.3       -16
AGRICULTURE & NINING                  10.1       8.5      0.5       0.5       1.5       4.6      -1.9       7.4      7.8
INDUSTRY & CONSTRUCTION               17.5      -0.6     11.5       .16      -6.7       1.1       4.1       1.4      -35
SERVICES                              72.3       4.8      4.8       4.5       5.5       5.4       4.0       1.8       -13
Of which: AutonomousC4)              15.9      -5.4       8.9      19.7     -3.7       8.2       1.5       5.0      -7.8
GROSS DOMESTIC INVESTMENT             27.7      30.1     2.7       21.4      16.7      15.4      16.7      17.5      7.4
Wernt of currant GDP)
lubtic sector                        10.6       910      10.7       8.2      6.9       4.8       4.1       3.4       1.8
-ivate sector                       17.1      21.1      17.0      13.2       9.8     10.6      12.6      14.1       5.7
SOUCE: Offico of the Coqptroller General: (1) includes: banking, other financial Institutlons and Inurance- (2) includes:
real estate and house property; (3) Include: services to firm   community services, nd personat services; (1) Includes:
It pipetinr activity, Colon free zone, and Panama canal commislan.



- 34 -
Annm 1
Page 2 of 3
PAL*A, EXTIRNML FCMaaIC Ii.ICaTCua
(tdilimu of U.S dallara}
im   m   im   i                             m    & mzm
CURRENT ACOU                 -322      -360     -40       -2       -136      -141       23       -16       302
GOODS & SERVICES             -336      -391     -451      -247     -248      -250       -72      -81       217
Trad  belane                 -816      -974    -1000      -927     -905      -938      *789     -798      -432
Exports, Fab                 m         287      322       305      286       28       359       367
Petrolte  trad              -191      -217     -243      -24      -173      -186      -113     -112       -71
lWorts, Fab                 -918    -1044    -108t       -988    -1018    -1040    -1036    -1054        -666
FreIght,nrurance             -124      -138      -53       114       58        79        II       15       48
Tranportat10n                 331       355      392       350     333        361      373       383       392
Trawt                         115       110       93       101      121       152       122       96        80
Instnt In_om                 -283      -2V      -350      -324     -294      -358     -326      -320      -394
of whAchfintest
pui f db                    -248      -27      -344      -282     -310      -322      -320     -300      -354
overnnt n..e.                 -10       -10      -12       -14       -6       -11       -12       -4         4
Other sovecas                 451       52       487       453      438       465       549      545       518
Colon fre tona               215       254      220       142      148       187      229       248       232
Rest of thbeorld             23        27       267       310      290       279      321       297       287
UNREWITED TRbIF.               14        31       46        *        112      109        95       65        85
Privats tr.nfore              -52       -48      -55       -60      -32       -31       -27      -49       27
Publtc trwnfors                67        79      101       104      144       140       122      114       112
CAPITALACCMET                  40       400      367       122       66      -171      -425       -3    -1215
Offealt capital               223       205      510       302       116     -211      -288      -55    -1113
Other official
bw1  trctfon                  -1       -40        1       -87
Private captal               -182       Z5     -144       -94      -50       -11       -73       51      -102
ERRORS &   INIMOS                       -43       40        82        -3      332       -18     -460      -800
VALUATIN ADJUSTENT              5         3                 -2       -1
FINUUCING                                                            73        32      357       480      1713
Bnfng systm                                                  3       73      -200       -10      453       264
Reschiuing                                                                    232       367
Arrrs                                                                                             27      1449
PERCENT OF CP
Exports of UGPS              ".5       43.2     40.       38.5     35.0      34.9      35.8     33.9      36.8
lWorts of US                 4*7.7     47.8     44.0      3.8      34.0      32.7     30.9      29.4      23.3
Current account              -9.0      -9.3     -9.5      -4.6      -3.0     -2.7        .4      -.3       6.7
MMRC: Internetf0nal Nntary Fred.



- 35 -
Annha1
Page 3 of 3
TABLE A.3
OII-IagNNIN ALJ  sLIC SECTO
mi"at  af U.S. domteri)
Ms l91S1I                             198 84    M98 15e 1 M ,
REVENUE AND GRANTS                 100O     1170      1265     1386      1425     1532      1592      1653     1053
-enera goverrment         f     f    3      1106      1223     1315      1261     1387      1423     1503       940
-tral goveruent                   6ao       m        838       863      859       962      1006     1057       569
ocfal security agercy             219       267       319      332       312      345       351      386       336
ecentraLizad agncie                55        64        67      121        90       80        66       60        35
-1-ting balance of
pubLfc enterpr m43                           62        41       70       134      125       163       150      113
Grans                                2         1                           30       20         6
EXPENDITURE                        1202     1385      1727     1650      1699     1624      1638      1695     1S55
urrent exediture of
erwrtl boverlm_nt                 691      10:14     1208     1243      1334     1382      1393      1495     1473
entral governmnt                  610       685       829      814       898      883       896      90        962
ocfaltescurfty _aecy               197      236       267      313       334      393       405      449       426
ecentraiizod    ncie                4        93       113      116       101      106        90       96        86
apital expedit" ci)               311       371       518      407       365      242       26       200        S1
:-:SOLIDATED PUBLIC
ECTOR SURPLUS                     -194     -215      -462     -265      -274      -93       -47       -43     -501
atnce of nrnconsotidted
pubLic ector                        13        7        -2       17         8       13        25        3        28
PUBLIC SECTOR SULPUJ               -181     -206      -464     -247      -266       -80      -22       -40     -473
Statfstical discr pancy                                                                                  5        4
tRANCING
xternal (Net)                      228       62        36      143        97       25        76       -32        9
rrears                                                                                                 5       460
ational Bank                       -41      131        31      109       175       55       -54        71       -1
thor                               -6        1S         3       -5        -7
PERCENT OF GDP
Publfc setor rev nu
end grants                        28.3     30.2      29.6     31.7      31 2     31.3      31.1      31.1     23.3
Gnorat gov. reveVA 27.1                     28.5      28.6     30.1      27.6     28.3      27.8      28.3     20.8
Operating baltnce of
public enterprises                 1.2      1.6        .9      1.6       2.9      2.5       3.2       2.8      2.5
ubItf sector expenditure          35.6     35.7      40.4     37.8      37.2     33.1      32.0      31.9     34.4
urrent expenditure of
enerol governamnt                 25.0     26.1      28.2     28.4      29.2     28.2      27.2      28.2     32.6
apitet expendfture                 8.7      9.6      12.1      9.3       8.0      4.9       4.6       3.8      1.8
Zlic sector surpLtu              -.5       -5.4    -10.8      -5.7      -5.8     -1.6       -.4       -.8    -10.5
SOURCE: Internatfonal Nmnwtry Fund.(IItncludu  net Lending.



- 37 -
Ann-x 2
Page 1 of 7
Th- TAL Studies: Main Conclusions and Results
1.  Effective Protection
(Center for Development Technology)
In March 1984, the Center for Development Technology was hired.
The final report was presented in June, 1984. The objective was to estimate
the effective protectlon of the most difficult cases where an equivalent
nominal tariff had to be established in substitution of quotas. It
concentrated on textiles and clothing. It found that in general the effective
protection was low, due to the existence of muggling. In the coment industry
and other materials usod in construction, it found a very hlgh dogree of
protection. The firm also recomuended not to increase the minimum tariff, but
this was not accepted by the Bank.
2.  Trade and Prigino Policies in Acricultura
(University of Minnesota)
In February 1984, the Department of Agricultural Economics of the
Universlty of Minnesota was hired to do the study. The team was lead by Bdward
Schuh. The final report was dellvered in September 1984. The study included
rice, beef, onions, potatoes, etc. and concluded that the level of protection
to agricultural products was too high, around 100% above the international
price. The implicit pricing policy was to keep real prices unchanged,
independent of changes in productivity levels, price of inputs or prices in
the international market. Furthermore, this real level was too high.
Pricing policies promoted import substitution, in particular in rice and corn.
This policy discriminated against the beef industry, a potential exporter. It
also lncreases the prico of wage-goods in favor of large producers, having a
regressive impact on the distribution of incoe. The study recommended that
the large subsidies and import substitutLon policies in products like rlce and
maize should be terminated in a period of two to three years. It recoammended
the end of the heavy state interv ntlon in the market, speclally through IMA
and Zndema. The high price of some agricultural inputs (like fertilizer)
should be dLminished. Som subsLdLes to agricultural exports were recommended.
3. Public Entities in the Aaricultural Sector
(Management Analysis Center- MAC)
The idea was to assist the public entities to adjust to the new
economic policy in the sector, that meant more promotion of exports, less
import substitutlon and less state intervention. The main conclusions reached
by the study was that the exlsting instltutions were not complylng with their
stated objectives. For example, ENDZMA was created to leas, sophisticated
agricultural machinery to small and medium size farms. In reality, 40% of its
activities were in construction and most of its machlnery was leased to
another state flrm, the sugar complex La Victoria. INA was created to keep the
prices of food low but in effect was achieving exactly the opposlte.
The final report made speclfic recommendatlons on several publLc entities3



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
L) Corporaclon Azuearera La Vlctorla-
a) close the most inefficient mllls (Asuero)g
b) sell assets not related to sugar productLon;
c) reduce admlnistrative staff 
d) reduce the prlce paid for sugar cane.
L1)   Banco de Desarrollo AgropecuarLo
Should be merged to Banco Naelonal de Panama
LLL) ENDENA (Empresa Naclonal de MaquLnarlas)i should
privatlzed
lv)   INA (InstLtuto de Mercadeo AgropecuarLo)s Should stop all
dlrect lnterventlon ln agrlcultural markets, sell all lts
LnventorLes and privatLze its storage facliltles. It would
remain as a diffusLon agency.
v)   CltrLeos de ChirLquLi should be prlvatized.
vi)   COBANA (CorporacLon Bananera Naclonal)t should be prlvatLzed
viL) ENASER (Empresa Naclonal de Smllla)s transfer to IDIAP the
research tasks and privatize the marketing section.
viii) ISA (InstLtuo de Seguro AgropecuarLo)s Several changes were
rca mmoended ln its way of operating to Lmprove the servLesa
lt was provLdlng. In practice lt had ben reduced to
insurLng the crops that were flnanced through the State Bank
(BDA) and lts polley menu lacked flexlblilty.
lx)   Asentamlento:s had been receiving a dliproportlonate portlon
of government credit and assLstance, evn though they
constituted only 4.3% of the total number of producers and
therefore many of them were not being developed as self
sustaining enterprLses. The study reommended to liquidate
all non viable asentamientos, and to reduce monetary
assistance and lncrease technlcal assistance.
What was done:
CALV:Azuero was prlvatized, but none of the other recommandations
wer Irplomnted.
BDA: sme Lmprovement in services, but the transfer to SHP was not
accepted by the Government.
I1A: lt retreated from intervening in the acquisition, sale and
storage of goods, but was not performing lts new role of provider of
Lnformation and assLstance.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
ENASEM: was shut, transferring the research area to ZDZAP and the
marketing to the private sector.
ENDEHZA was privatized, then broke, and the Governmnt seized lts
ausets.
4. Proaram to Improve tho Aoricultural
Institutions of Panama: Phaso IX
MAC (Management AnalyLsi Center)
Thli study recommended the precLoe steps to implement the
recommendations of the prevlous phase. For example, it recommcnded the new
price to be paLd for sugar cane by CALV; lt designed a program to reduce
adminLstrative staff; it LdentLfLed and valued assets not related to
productlon of sugar, etc. It developed a system of Lnformatlon that could be
used by management to continuously evaluate the performance of the *nterprises
in the sector.
The practLcal consequences of these studies were*
the GOP dl.aarded the idea of manufacturing alcohol from sugar cane; convinced
government offlcials of the need to sell Azuero sugar mill; other
recommendatLons were not implemented
5.  SocLal Security and Health
Thli was the component were there was more mplementatlon
problems. The consultant fLrm that was hired to perform the adminlitrative and
managerial study of the Caja de Seguro Soclal (CSS) failed completely, to a
point that the contract was flnally canceled. Another consultant flrm that
performed an audit of the Caja and recommended changes in the accounting
system and that did a very good job, found no receptivity in the Caja to
$mplement its recommendations. These studLes were anyway helpful, but the
most helpful were the actuarial studles that servd as a basLs to recommend
changes ln the logislative framework. The consultants made detailed
recoumendatLon on how to modify the reglme. They were not implemented.
L) Actuarlal study of the pensions program
This study was executed by Robert Ke$ffer, under the direction of
Peter Thull-n. The study recommnded to eliminato the early retlrement age, to
Lncroase the minimum age for retirement, to reduce the percentage of the
salary that is given as penaLon, to modlfy the formula to estimate the salary
on which the pension is estimated, etc.



- 40 -
Annex2
Pago 4 of 7
LL) Study of the adminLitration of tha CBS
a) Investmnts
b) ComputLng system
c) Management Informatlon System
Berger Internatlonal was hired for these studies. The flrm had
diffLcultlis ln performlng lts study am three dlff-rent admlnLstratLons
alternated in the CBS, and each redlrected their work. The fLrst two studies
were completed, but the thlrd had to be suspended and the contract wlth the
flrm was canceled. The studlis were not consLdered satlifactory.
lll) Study of unlt costs ln the Health sector
Thli study encountered many obstacles, specially in determinLng
its scope once lt was known that there was not enough rellable lnformation to
est4mate unlt costs. The consultant flrm developed a method that could be used
to determine unlt costs, which started to be implemented. The study was
started ln March, 1984 and fLnished ln September 1984. It flnally dld not
achLive lts orlglnal objectLves, as the method to determLne unlt costs was not
fully implmented.
6.  Trannoort in the Panaq  City-Colon Corridor
(PRC EnglneerLng)
The study was asslgned to PlannLng Research EngLneorlng
CorporatLon (PRC). The prlnclpal objectLve of the study was to evaluate the
future of the raLlroad in the context of alternatLve transport methods, and
the convenience of dLcontLnaing the servLce. The most lmportant development
from thli study was that lt establshed the vlablilty of "Centro puerto" a
port that would functlon as an lnternatlonal center that would concentrate and
dlitrlbute contaLners.
RegardLng the raLlroad, the recommendatlons were to abolLsh the
passenger servlce and concentrate on cargo. Extenslve recommundatLons were
made on the admLaLstratLon and effLcLency of the rallroad.
Regardlng the translt hlghway, lt was recommended to wlden lt ln the
neLghborhood of Panama Clty and Colon.
If the ldea of Centropuerto was developed, then Panama would not
face any restrLetions ln port capaclty for the next 20 years.
The TAL program also fLnanced a study on the lmprovements needed to the Port
of Balboa, that was demanded by the Port Authorlty to justLfy decLsLons taken
ln the context of a Bank loan for reforms to the Port.



- 41 -
hAnnex
Page 5 of 7
7    o Cattlo and Reef Marketina  ln Panam
(MAC)
The study was directed at glving advlie on the way to improve the
meat-packing industry and the marketlng system to improve the comparatlve
advantage that according to the consultants, Panama had in the production of
beef. The study made specific recommendations in the followlng areas:
-Classification system of the quallty of cattle and beef;
-Classification oystem of beef in butcher's shops;
-Ninimum sanitary provisions at meat-packing plants;
-Marketing of cattlel and
-Better use of by-products.
S. *rban Transgort in Panama Citv
The study had the following objectives to develop a five year plan
on the subject of Urban Transport, including:
-Analysis of the institutional framework;
-Improvements to the road system and traffic flows;
-Analysis of Public Transportation
-Analysis of the system of road maintenance.
All these areas were covered very satisfactorily, and
recommendations were made about alternative plans of action in the different
areas.



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
5.4 SumarV gf Data for thg Stud1es
CONULTIlG                              DATE          DATE             UUALITY OF
STUD                       ml                      COS        BTalm         FINISHED          TNE STUDIES
Trade and prielng           Univ. of Hnimasota           *7S8.6        02/15/84     06/08/84          Good
Agricultural sector         MAC                          3624,000      03/19/84     10/31/84          Good
sector institutions
Phase 1.
Phas 2                      MAC                          *956.000     01/8S         12/86             Good
Effective                   CDT                          S113.820     01/30/4       05/31/84          Good
protection
Health sector               WCHP                         S29474       03/12/84      09/30/84          Acceptable
Audit nd Financial          A. Grant £ Co.               $425.416      04/02/84     09/10/84          Good
aaLysis of soial
security.
Adelnistration of           L.Berger                      436.19?      04/84        Actuarial         Apart from
CSS nd actuariat            International Inc.                                      (08/27/85)        the actuarfal
situation                                                                           Inform_tfon       stulfes. the
Technology       work was
(01/01/86);      unsatisfactory,
Investment       and the contract
(01/16/86)       was canceled
Trarnport                   PkC                          SZ54.612     04/84         12/85             Good
9Iebo Port                  PRC                          84.820       01/21/8S     04/85             Good
Cattle and beef             PAC                          $130,000      01/01/87     06/30/87          Acceptable
mrketing
Urban tr nsport              Israeli Institute           S221.800      04/87        02/88             Good
in Pana   C ty
Trainfng                                                 $2f966
Equipment                                                8142613
Adelnfetration of                                        $481,680
the project
Bank fens                                                 12,449
Total                                                 $4,263,M%
Expected Staff Maadc. Costs End Timetablo
_-onths                    .t
1. Trad  nd price polfcy fn agriculture                             6            4 rinths
2. Agricultural public inatitutfons:
2a. Phs  one    54                                         Nov. 84
2b. Phm  two    78                                         UnloAn
3.  Effective Protection                                            12            Aprfl U4
4. Socafl Securfty:
4a. Ffnancial nlysis (ctuarial)                                36             December 84
4b. Adafnistration                                              72            December 84
S. NH 1th study       24                                   Deceer 64
6. Transport study   16                                      August 64



- 43 -
Page 7 of 7
1. Trade sad price policy In "egculttur.9
2. AgriCultural pLhlt  1isttutions:
2S. Phase on                           650,000         624,000
2b. Phao two                           940,000         956,000
3. Ef fetive Protection                  188,000           114,000
4. siatl Surity:
4X. Finoneiul ultyss (atusralt)    432,000             425,000
4b. Administration                   864.000           436,000
(CANCELED)
S. Health study                            288,000         298,000
6. Trport stu&f                             96.000         356.000
Subtotal            3:450,000       3:288,000
Othwr studies                         758,000
_anent                               72,000
Equipmnt                              135,000
Training                              150,000
Contin nwein                         440,000
Subtotal                            1:555,000



FPANtl SAL I
NATRIX OF TUANCHE RELEASE
COUDIT1ONS AH ACTUAL ACT IOS TAKEN
Action Already Taken
Sector *nd Polcv Issur                            By Board Presentation                     Staem  To B Tae n                           Actions Tskw4'
t. AGIOJLTURAa AH  RURAL
1. Pricing regulation nd
marketing.
(a) Export restrictions.                   eaf export restriction lifted,        Export restriction an fish mel *nd           -Bf rtrictiomn were lifted.
Newch 1963.                             cacao to be lifted by October 1964.          The restrictions for fish I  l
nd cacao wre not tifted.
-Restrictions on coffee we nut
-Restrictions on coffee eports                                                       Lifted In practice.
lifted by September 1963.
(b) Pricing.                             -Producer support price of rice         Substantial reduction in suport              -Price of rice mas rejiced
reduced.                                 Ices for rice, corn. nd soridwu to         *iohtly in 41V3. No substential
cam nrc   by Narch 1965.                    r deition by 4/35 in ny of the
other goode.
-Potato price  freed.                  Prices for potatoes, tomtoe, onion           -Potato price  ware freed In
nd other horticultural produet to           1963. Th price  for thr others d
be freed, by October 194.                   gooe wuere not freed.
-Nl5k cltmifled  ccording to grades    Enforement of price for grde up              -Information is *biguou .
and appropxiat price  set.              milk by Decobr 31, 1963.
-Grading system for meat                                                            -Domestic prices mwre freed but
estableh ed. domestic prices of                                                     sseepently, th  controls wae
expensive cuts of mest f-sed,                                                       reirnstated.
Septedber 1983.
(e)   arket intervention wd                                                      ank fI Mnced (wuder the T?L) pricing        The scudy as completed.
repuletion.                                                                    study to be completed by th  secnd
half of 1961 to indicate a proorem of
r ductions In state  nte rvention In
aoriculture *d of Institutional
reform, keeping with new dbelop ent
strategy.
1/Text preceded by a   -   correspond to comments to the column Actiong Already Taken. Text following a "/2
correqponds to comments to the column Steos to be Taken.



Sector wi Polticy low                              Action AtreaTym   Tten                     St         Taken                   A&tf oneuLa
2.  Institutional tform.                      -Fetipitto sugar mil closed. Neh
-Activities at Dot    state s_e
-Activities at ote state ea r                                                        mills we  redcd lnitfally,
mills reduced, btreh  M.                                                              b             ilasinin w ty mr
wvida  fn el.
-Stat  ceem  uprnetin glosed,
"Mn.
-subedies, to stae devlo-en                                                            Sbsdies Mere Itoppe  by 19
coporatfon etiminsted in 193la I; excmpt for aeVane.
-Redaction of Agricultural                                                            -The special sub idy VW
Deelopme nt lank intert rate                                                          elisinat d. Th  FE I was cut in
*ubJdy.                                                                               196.
Further Institutifnrl reform  to             Study urs c_ pleted.
smelt re ults of bank f* Iced s etor
study to be c p4ted by mid-1964.
Policy ain to be adkressd Include:
creatfon of an effective agriculture
polcy coordfnrtion cpablJty;
adainate mnagement infoort tion for
better Institution l eontrol;
reduction of the States role
fndirectly production ctivities;
furthsr strentthening of Agrfcultural
Develop ent Enk; redution of stat
interest in m_rketing and eliminstion
of an staot mrketin menApolies;
rajicing iholesale and retail price
controls; and strngthen capbilities
of r erch institutions.
-All      Agricultual D lopment         Draft legfslotion for ne agriculture          -M.  irnsred credit   s dom.
San  credits c d  by crop               Incentives l  approved by Cabirnt             /Agriculture incentIvs l_m
fnranc.                                ed-Nay 1951.                                  appro v   n i   y 195.



s ctor *nd Policy issues                           Action Already Taken                      Stms To Re Taken
It. URBAN IUSTRIAL AMD TRADE POLICIES
1. Articulation and                           -Under the coordination of the                                                        -New Industrial policy was
isplemmntation of an                          Ministry of Plming and Econormc                                                       established.
amqppriate Industrial                         Policy, a new Indatrial pollcy wa
developsent strategy.                         established In late 1982
Incorporating a strategy based on
expansion of export orfented, labor
intensive activitfes.
2. Export Promotion.                          -National Iovtstment Councif                                                          -NIC as established, as wll *s
established  n October 1982 to                                                        an office for export promotfon.
prmote foreign investment and
provid. Inve tors with one-stop
agency In deafirn with local
burmeracy.
-Export incentives provided in the      Sioplificatfon of CAT and their Link          -A change was attempted but, de
form of redemeble tax certifieates      to factory etployment by Mty 1984.            to conflicts,  t was not
(CAT).                                                                                1eptemented.
-Flexible Interpretations of tabor                                                    -Done.
code In the cae of specific,
export-oriented inistries, late
1962 early 1983.
3. Protective Structure.                      -Cabinet decree established policy       Timetable for removal of remfning             -Decree was estabtihed. /The
objective of elimination of OR's        quotas to be agreed by end Nay 1984.         timetable as set but It was not
signed by the President In 1983.                                                      iplemented.
-133 quotas removed by october 15,                                                    -The quotas were rerd
1983.
-Mximua term of Individuml                                                            -Maxi    lengths of contracts
contracts betvmen the Govermu ent and                                                 were reduced although loopholes
the private firm  rediced from 10 to                                                  rendered the action ineffective.
5 years, Mreh 1983.
Industrfal wnd coercial policy               The studies were completed but
studfes. finaneed by 1 I  AID I nd           did not nwaer the cperational
the World *nk financed technical             problem.  Instead, a rule of
assstance on effective protection to         thub of a mxui  of 1O0X ad-
be completed by end Nay 1984. Thee           valorem tariff, plus
will assist the Goverrment in                ce pensation of up to SOX for
determining initfal level of tarfff          using expensive dbemstic ifnpts
protection with kinch to replace             was implemented.
quotas Wmtn reasonable eb tlastes are
unal tlable.
II



Sector nd Poltcv Issue                             Action Already Taken                      Stes To Be Taken                      Actions
3. Protective Structure (cnt.)
-Pubiic  mowicement in Narch 1963
that new industries will not be
offered ny form of quota
protection.
-Nazium tariff protection for new       Draft legislation for new industrial          -Maximu. tariffs for nrw
industries initially IM5X of local      Incentives law approved by the                inihstries uere not sat. /mm
value added reduced after one year      Cabinet by end of Nay 1984.                   legisLation u s drafted 3/84.
to 100X. March 193.
Mazism and minimua tariffs to be             This was included In the draft
defined, nd timetable reaching a             of the IndLstrial Incentives
laws unfform tarIff reedy by end of          Le.
Nay 1964.
4. Prfee Controls.                            -25 industrial price controls            Goverment mill disowntle price                -Price controls were eliminated.
removed Septeaber 163.                  controls on indLstrial proidcts
following removal of quota.
S. Labor Legislation.                         -Legal cofission established to          Study financed by AID to be coepleted         -A study was dor.
modify labor code interpretation,       by mid-1964 followed by modification
in labor code after elections.
JII.  PUILIC SECTOR EFFICIENCY
1.  Financial Stabilization.                  -Increase irport tariffs and crude                                                     -Done.                              4
petroleu  ipport taxes.
-Substantial redoctions in capital      With the financial assiestnce of the          -Under an INF standby.
an  current public sector               INF. sajor export reforms are to be           expenditures were reduced /No
expnitures in C83.                      made in the Customs Administration            informtion.
including eventual application of
B7N. The reform are to be coepleted
by end 1984.
-Strict cash liaits on all                                                            -Initially done, but the system
expenditures established and                                                          later broke-doem.
monitored by Economic Cabinet.
-Directorate of Public Credit                                                        -Done.
established in Ninistry of PIaming
to coordinate commercial borrowing
by all pLulic s, tor agencies.
2. PubtIc Investmnt Progrm.                   -Detailed iswestmn' budget for 83                                                     -Done. althoush the Fortuna-
includes mjor red  ,ns and                                                            Changuinola road project was
deferral of non-priority projects.                                                    outside the budget.
-Draft program for 1984 and 1985        Detalled investment budget for 1984           Done.                          I
reviewed by Bank, July 1983.            and draft 85 program to be ready for                                         so
review by the Bank in March, 1984.



Sector ad Polic  Issue                             Action Alread  Taken                      Steps To Be Tken                      ACTIONS TAL
3. Reform and Restructuring of                -MaJor finanmial review of all           Disposal of ta Contador Panam.                -A financial review was
Pubilc Entities.                             pubtic setor entities coopleted                                                        finished./ La Contadora not
February 1983.                                                                        sold.
-Sale of a mejor loss-making hotel,                                                   -Sold.
Jinwaty 1983.
-Some agricultural entities elosed;                                                   See 1.2. above.
see ftem 1.2 above.
Restructuring of National airline.           It was proposed but not carried
out.
Ending of pricing scheme arrwnged            The pricing arrangement v
between piblic  nd private cement            en id. However, the iSplicit
compnfes, May 1984.                         agreement to rear nge ounership
did not take plce.
Reduction In domestic cement prices,         There ware no reduction In
July 1984.                                   prices.
-Rent controls freed on all now                                                       -Rent controls were ended.
housing projects carrying a monthly
unft rent of $00 or *ore, March
1983.
-Rationalization of National                                                          -Done.
Nortgage Bank including lncreased
interest rates for mortgag _  nd no
further independent access to
coairofatl bank credit, late 1962.
-Social security agency formally                                                      -Done.
undertook in October 1963 not to
engae In further direct housing
financing.
4.  Pubifc Sector Nousing.                    -From January 1953 socil security                                                     Done.
ftads used a secondary mortgge
financing at attractive rates of
fnterest.
-Interest rates sutaidy for sciaL                                                     Done.
seourity nortge ended October
198.
5.  Ffnancial Instftutions.                   -Reform and restructurng of              Audit of current portfolfo completed         An audit was done.
davelopmnt finance corporation          by June 15, 1983.
OFINA Initiated. Institutions
Issued to dissolve or auction off
those parts of the portfolio which
hawe beciome a fisct burden. Itew
managmeent has been appointed wd
process of prfvatfzation initiated.



sctom end   l t1w l1u                            Actlon Alreamv ta                         am  to   J knCTIg   TAE
S. Finclal Inotltutiom (cont.)
Comltmwts frc the  privats setor            CItW    t  (mln) ware
for purhse of shre  1n                      but te    ceede the 1/4 eqty
restructur1ng CFIM  to be obtained          tlfit. The problm mm never
by      e   of Nh 16.                       solved; COFIt  as closed.
mudr of OFIlU staff to be                   Infh_tion not oavilable.
uastantially rAeuad by frcds 31,
1964.
6. C    l Zoe Lne and Assets.                -Legfstatifn to facilitate lesfng                                                   -A lta  allowing lesirg was
or selling of land and                                                             Passed but it  no  t followed
Infr  tructure In the old Cwnal Zone                                               upon.
esnted In Cmurwes  in Nerch
1963.
Study of trin lsthumen trunport             Done.
corridor coqpleted by Juty 1954.
7. Nemlth end SWciel S      curity.          -Finarncil reforms to housing                                                      -Done
department of ocial security agency
coWleted Deceober 1962.
Study of Integrated system of health        Done.
care to be initiated by end 1963 and
coqpleted by end of 1964.
finsncale* neaeril end actuarfal            The finwncial and actuaralo
study to Socalt Security ag. to be          studies ware dbne/ The              0
Initfated by Jinuery 1964.                 mm"rll and study -
canceled.
S c:  President Report for tranch  relea  conditi on, sack-to-Office r port of Aprit 1966 PCR mssion or Actf ao  Taken.



P    SAL ItI
*CM  *CTIO  TAIE
LacIer uw  P.1w Cm                              Action Altu  Tm  toLB Taken
1. ntC SK_
1. Ctlase of uetitift.
(a)  E sl      d comay).                *kssr1 femtim   tanore   to                                                         _.
is'm..
-Cl_oe of   meciel OF stimm                                                       -it no towr oPerates in bs
u1 dispomao at  sts.                                                                 ab mkset.
b) rEI     cIafatua                      -Drft nal resolutien to Cabint.                                                   -After ftited divestitto to
bchinery Poet).                                                                                                           EF_    s -        Nts   rasived
by MA do sold am  of ths
se. Tns ret wN  to KlL.
Cc) Awaro Sitr Pill.                     -Nill clsed ud  Cdbnst ei                                                          -Sold in fctober, 196
to dispoa of masst.
-Fiast dispoa of a.                                                               -Dors.                            U
2. Sivotmnt of Entitie.                     -Solo of an of thlols entepises.
Ci)  Citricos de ChiriqA.                                                                                                  (i)  Ibt Sold.
CiM   AllptrlS.                         Asses sold.                                                                        (I ) Sold.
CiMi) lotol Cmedora.                    Intention announed.                                                                 iiM) Sdod.
Civ) Aamii  swao sIlt.                                                                                                    (Cv)  Mot Sold.
3.1. by April 1, 18 of two               Iot do.
tintl  enerprises en the list.
3. PiMic Sewtor Work force.                                                          Two perent rhejtien of tl  ltor           Den (P-nmnsm ion souce) but
for  iwiau 1986.                            iu   ccordin  to Sank
fiutiq.
VTJet precede by a  -   correspond to comments to  the column Actions Already Taken.  Text following a   /'
corresponds to the column Steve to be Taken.



|tarCt  mid Po-ley 13mm                          Actfin Alreadiw Takon                   3.       ToDgo Taken                 Aci1m  Tau
4. SociaL Security Fundo.                  -n) Tronsfer Les" s Epeciatls to            Ci) Enmctent of ne Penslon bw,           -No att2t We mab to ofoth
natiamu  budget;                          mnc;                                      the pumice progsrem of the
(a) ReIductin of early                Socwl Security Aorcy or the
retir ment penslon and greditl            pecial prosrU,  for patic
elimination of ewrly retir eant;          VatON.
(b) new s*cto of pensIon
rights;
(c) tongr aeraging period for
pension base;
(Cd) Inflation adjutnt of
pensions;
te) maintarnwce of
cepitalizatfon lenl.
-Cif) Initiate measures to imp1ove        (if) Iuction of CSS wok force;            -Amnistrative off icincy was
administratlve offifciency;                                                          InCrsd  Therem wasnly a
modest redction In CSS wk
force.
-Cfii) Cabinet approval of draft lw       Ciii) Reform of Les Especoales.          -lot dos *(This rer_nmet wee
overnins pnion *chem_;                                                              wived).
-(iv) Undmrstuing on reform of                                                      -Not done. 
L;yss Especles.e.
S. Financil stabilization.                  -Put fn pltce in accebptc                 Satisfactory coqpliane with               Not done; 1987   [oISet -
stabilization progrm                      stabilfzotion progrm.                     incnstent with tho externa
financin. This led to exceselve
d tic borrowIng from the 1W.
6. Pubtic Imost_mnt Progrm                  -Agreement with Bain preliminary          Satisfactory financial plan.              -Not don; 1987 baicket not
196 ilent prog.                                                                    constet with finncing.
11 DIU3RIAL AM TRWDE POLICIES
1. Indstrial Incentive Lw.                  -New lw passed, March 1966,                                                         -Complied. The secord cut In
includring: (a) discontiewetifn of                                                 tariffst wam ipamtentd novner
contracts with the nation; (b)                                                      196t.
maximu tariff protection of 20X for
ne  indtrial prodct, 30X for now
agroIndwstrial prducts; Cc)
reductIon of existing protection;
Cd) 3k minimu tariff. Reductfon of
existing taiff, AugAt 1, 1986, a
the first of 5 equa cuts to a
maximu of 602 t90X for a few
exceptional products).
o w



Sector  nd Plicv Issue                              Action Alreadv Taken                        Stems To Be Taken                       ctlem Ta
2.  General incentives and protective           -All but 20 import quotas removed                                                         -Dcne.
struct4re.                                      before June 30 1986.
3.  Tariff administration.                      -BTE system and CIF tariff base                                                            -CIF was adopted. There is no
adopted.                                                                                  information rega rding the BTN
system.
-Specific duties to be supplemented                                                       There uas a shift to ad-valor._
with ad-valor.. duties for all                                                            tariffs, although high meximwi
comodities; no specific duties to                                                         levels were set for new
be raised.                                                                                products.
111. LABO POLICIES.
t.  Labor Code.                                 -Law passed farch 1986, modifying                                                         -Complied.
the Code to: Ci) permit piecework;
(ii) encourage reuards for
productivity; (iii) rationalize
overtime provisions for smll
export nd agro-based firms; Civ)
remove subcontracting from the scope
of the Code. Improvements in the
administration of the Labor code,
including quicker deisions,
appeals. etc.
IV.AGRICULTURE P    R L
DEELoPNENT.
1. Agricultural Incentives                      -New law passed, march 1986.  (1)                                                         -Complied. but commissions
Legislation.                                   replacing self-sufficiency aim with                                                       created by law control prices
the pursuit of comparative                                                                and quantities.
advantage; Cii) abolishing import
substitution targets; Cifi)
abolishing automatic quantitative
restrictions on agricultural
imports.
2.  Producer Prices and Import                  -End of support prices for rice,             Reduction of import duties on rice,          -Ended support prices de lure:
Tariffs.                                      onions  beans and salt.                       maize, onios, and beans.                     de facto. comnissiones  enage
prices. / Import duties were
-Import quotas and rice, maize,              End of support price for nmize.              -Import quotas were lifted, de
onions, and beans lifted and                                                              lure, but de facto they were not
replaced with equivalent tariffs.                                                         done./ Price supports for maize
were not eliminated.
:f



Sie.od  FPoli la.                              Action Atrasi Take                      Stm  To Be Take                   kAitmoM nT
3. Cemmrr pries.                           -Ending of price controlt on 20                                                   -Price controls mse rmowd in
c tagries of foode.                                                               1956, but mm  (5) we
reintated In 1951.
-Ending of price controls on four                                                -Not don.
further itm.
4. Plc Sector Role.                        -A_ouncment of en to INA crop            Erd of  A cropplptnu system.             -Announcemnt u1 mdsjIDA
purdcang, including  l.. esd .
-Arnucmnt of ich redced role            Revision of INA's dchrter.               -Announcoment  s mde.j The
for IM.                                                                          dcaer wrs not revised.
-sale of riee en part of sat            Sale of rmlning sat lnventories.
incentives.
sgur: Presidnt Report for tr.ehe relee conditions, loon documnts for Actions Taken.
Ln
IIF



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
The Period Between SAL I and SAL II
A. Initial Disaareements and the Events of 1985
1.         The original schedule for the preparation of SAL II could not be
kept, as an Identification Mission for SAL II undertaken in October 1984
reported that Panamat (i) was not complying with IMF targets for 1984; (ii)
had been approving Contracts with the Nation in violation of SAL I; and (iii)
was unwilling to submit for legislative approval the draft Industrial
Incentive Law as had been approved by the Cabinet earlier in June 1984. Given
the very difficult fiscal situation that Panama would face in 1985-86 due to
debt service obligations, not meeting the IMF targets, and ending 1984 with a
higher deficit (by about 1 of GDP) than programmed, were very troubling
developments.
2.         In March 1985, the Minister of Planning and Economic Policy, Mr.
Ricaurte Vasquez, asked the Bank for a second structural adjustment loan of
$150 million in CY85. Panama needed a Stand-by with the Fund to obtain funds
from the US Government, and it faced a financial gap of $150 million in 1985.
The Bank said it would be possible to disburse before the end of 1985 if it
received by end April 1985, a satisfactory draft Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) and if by then the GOP had a two year Stand-by Arrangement with the
Fund.
3.         During the discussion of the LDP between Bank staff and the
Panamanian authorities, there were many disagreements particularly on the
timing and content of the three laws (labor code reform, industrial incentives
and agricultural incentives legislation) that were required am part of the
loan. The draft LDP that the Cabinet finally approved on May 9, 1985, did not
satisfy the Bank, and there were concerns on the weakness of the Government
and its capacity to deliver. Nevertheless, the Bank went ahead to appraise the
loan.
4.         On June 7, 1985, the Loan committee authorized appraisal and
recommendeds a) clearing up the areas of non-compliance under SAL I before
presentation to the Board; b) strengthening trade liberalization; and c)
reversing a recently approved increase in public sector wages. The issue of
the degree of the Government's commitment to the program would be assessed at
appraisal. The Committee also expressed concern on the delay in signing a new
Stand-by Agreement with the Fund, due to disagreements on the 1985 budget.
The Committee established the size of the loan at $60 million, but agreed to
consider increasing it to $80 million if the three laws (labor, industry and
agriculture) were approved before Board presentation. on industrial policy
the appraisal mission should insist that the draft of June 1984 should be the
text to go to Congress.
5.         The appraisal mission returned in July 1985 without having
completed appraisal. The key problem was the industrial law. The mission
expressed several points of concern: the Government was weak, had made no
public declaration of its economic policy, and had exercised no firm action in



- 56 -
Anneg 4
Page 2 of 4
implementing the adjustment program of which SAL I was part. Furthermore, the
mission confirmed the previous impression that the Government's request for a
SAL was driven mainly by the public sector's financial crisis.
6.         On July 15, 1985, the IMF approved a 21 month Stand-by through
March 1987. This agreement kept alive consideration of SAL II, but a mission
in August arrived at the conclusion that there could be no SAL II in 1985, due
to the difficulties in agreeing on a satisfactory LDP. As a consequence, the
GOP faced severe financial problems since $21 million from the commercial
banks and $40 million from USAID were connected to the SAL II process.
Furthermore, it would be very hard for Panama to comply with the IMF
agreement, unless it reduced government expenditure drastically. The GOP
finally did this by cutting the investment program by a third.
7.         By mid-1985, Bank staff was beginning to be skeptical of Panama's
future and the possibilities for reform. This was due to the enormous public
debt and the attempts to use the IMF to refinance commercial debt. It also
reflected growing disillusionment with the administration.
8.         President Barletta resigned in late September 1985.  At the time,
staff attributed his removal in part to disagreements among the Panamanian
authorities on economic policy arising from the publication of both the draft
LDP for the Bank and the IMF Letter of Intent, though recognizing that the
main reasons were political in nature. This meant that there was strong
opposition within the ruling party to a LDP that the Bank thought did not go
far enough.
9.         In December 1985 the commercial banks inquired about the status of
SAL II. The Dank responded that it considered the draft LDP no longer
operative and that appraisal was dormant. As a consequence, the commercial
banks did not disburse the $21 million but decided to extend the deadline for
disbursement to March 31, 1986. In the opinion of Bank staff, the strong
stand taken by the Bank on this issue, against pressure from several quarters,
finally convinced the Panamanians that they had to put together an acceptable
policy proposal to prevent a financial crisis.
B.  Implementation of the Agreed Actions for Processino SAL II
10.        In order to proceed with appraisal of SAL II, it had been agreed
that the following measures had to be taken before April 1, 1986: (i) closure
of three public entities; (Li) replacing quotas with tariffs for 20 products;
and (iii) removal of price controls for beef. Two of these had in fact been
SAL I conditions. None of these actions were taken by the specified date and,
moreover, the IMF Stand-by was delayed. As a consequence, the appraisal
mission wae postponed.
11.        one week later, after some progress was reported, the mission went
ahead even though cwo of the three public entities had not been closed. The
mission returned without having completed appraisal. The mission found that
the situation was much worse than what had been conveyed to the Bank. NgM of



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
the closings had been undertaken, as the Minister of Agriculture opposed thrm
(the three were agricultural entities). In violation of a previous agreement,
the Government had increased pensions by B20 per month. This also violated the
agreement with the Fund. Several other measures were behind schedule or had
been implemented only in part. The mission wrote a supplemental Aide Memoire
(supplemental to the earlier Aide Memoire), but the Government was unable to
agree on it. The major change in this supplemental Aide Memoire was that it
included an explicit timetable to pass a Social Security Law by end-1986. on
its return, the mission reported: "The Government remains under severe
pressure of time to reach an agreement with the Bank." This was due to the
connections between Bank, Fund and commercial banks' timetables. The
experience of the mission pointed yet again the difficulty of implementing a
SAL program in Panama. "This program will require constant monitoring on an
almost daily basis or it will prob&bly slide irretrievably behind schedule."
12.        At the end of May 1986, a second appraisal mission returned with a
subscantial change in tone. The Bank and the GOP had agreed on a Supplemental
Aide Memoire. In it, the Bank agreed to a change in the policy toward INA (the
agricultural marketing agency) which would be reformed rather than closed and
a rescheduling of the three closures, while the GOP agreed to eliminate quotas
and price controls in the agricultural sector, and to a timetable for the
social security reform. The report concluded appraisal "with the judgement
that the program of reform is substantial, economically sound and worthy of
support." Staff still, however, recorded some reservations on the Government's
ability to implement the reforms. Nevertheless, there was a recommendation to
increase the size of the SAL to $105-115 million, given the agreement on
Social Security reforms.
13.        By June 15, 1986, Panama had to comply with seven conditions: (i)
close Las Cabras sugar mill; (ii) change the role of the Instituto de Mercadeo
Agropecuario (INA), from controlling prices to providing information; (iii)
end price controls for food; (iv) eliminate beef export quotas; (v) remove 35
of the remaining 55 import quotas; (vi) provide the final list of 18 goods
that will be protected by the maximum import tariff of 90%; and (vii) provide
a plan for reducing the public workforce by 3,000 persons in 1986. On June
19, 1986 only two of the seven conditions had been met, in part because the
agricultural minister remained unconvinced and uncooperative. The
documentation received by the IMF was considered uneatiseactory and the IMF
staff withdrew the program from the Board. The commercial banks once again
extended their deadline, to August 31, 1986.
14.        By the end of June, Panama had ccmplied with the June 1986
actions. This included the acceptance by the Bank of the postponement for the
second time of the closure of Las Cabras sugar mill, now to August 1, 1986.
At the same time, the IMF received satisfactory documentation and the program
would go to the Board in early July 1986. The August 1 deadline for the
closure of Las Cabras was met, though problems continued with the agricultural
sector, where the minister continued to be uncooperative.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
15.        on September 2, 1986 the Loan Committee approved negotiations for
a SAL of $100 million. Concern was expressed during the discussion about the
implication of the 60% maximum import tariff and the 3% minimum, recommending
more action either in terms of levels or in accelerating the decline.
Furthermore, the mild effect of such a reduction in the context of 570 new
Contracts with the Nation approved since early 1984 was noted.
16.        There were four conditions for Board Presentation: (i) Cabinet
approval of a Social Security Reform draft law; (ii) agreement on a reform of
the Leyes Especiales (covering workers in the public sector); (iii) removal of
price controls on four goods; and (iv) divestitune of ENDEMA (a public sector
agricultural equipment enterprise).
17.        By the end of September 1986, only the last two had been complied
with. Cabinet approval of the reform of the Social Security System looked
improbable, given the political situation. By the end of October 1986 it was
clear that the principal political party opposed the reform of the system, and
without that support there was no way the reform would be approved.
i8.        Finally on December 3, President Delvalle sent a letter in which
he promised to approve a reform of the Social Security System, but stated that
he needed more time to discuss it. On the basis of this letter, the Bank
waived this condition for Board presentation, and the latter was set for
December 11. This waiver seems to be an important decision in the SAL II
process. The Bank seemed pressed to deliver SAL II. Of the US$135 million
financing gap that Panama faced for 1986, transfers of US$114 million were
scheduled for the fourth quarter and all were tied to SAL II. If the Loan had
not been approved, the IMF agreerant would not have been complied with, Panama
would have lost the commercial bank money, and the country would have faced a
terrible financial aituation. One would have expected that the GOP, facing
these perepectives, would have complied more smoothly with the conditions for
processing the loan. The Bank could have considered this a signal of the
GOP's degree of commitment te the program.



Attachment
- 59 -
Republic of Panama                          Panama, February 6, 1992
I________________________________ :oJUTCPE/N/019/92
Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy
Minister's Office
Mr. Marko Voljc
Division Chief
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Voljcs
With reference to the preliminary PCR draft for SAL I and II and TAL
loans to the Republic of Panama, document which I received from you on
November 5, 1992 during my visit to Washington, I would like to observe the
following:
1.    I consider that the report is extremely negative for Panama since it
indicates that Panama did not comply with a large number of obligations agreed
with the World Bank and does not underline the fact this was due to the
irresponsible behavior of the governments which were in power before December
20, 1989.
2.    We are not aware of the details and reasons that caused the non-
compliance mentioned in the referred document and, therefore, cannot provide
any opinion with regard to what has been expressed in the World Bank's
internal document.
3     I consider that Panama and its present Government have shown
seriousness and correctness in the handling of their international relations
and, particularly, with the World Bank. I therefore would consider fair to
incorporate an attachment to the report providing an account of the events
following December 20, 1989.
4.    I believe that an adequate account of our efforts, which have led to
the clearance of arrears and the presentation of a new loan to the Board of
Directors of the World Bank, can preclude any distorted image of Panama which
does not fit the current reality.
Very truly yours,
(signed)
Guillermo A. Ford H.
Minister



- 60 -
II 1    ASacfi4/
Panama. 6 de febrero de 1992
UTCPE/N/019/92
Senor        .
Marko Volic
Division Chief
Banco Mundial
Washington, D.C.
Estimado Senor VoVIC:
Con referencis al Oorrador preliasinar del informe de cumplimiento
do los pr6stamos SAL I v [I y TAL a la Rep4blica de Panaem,
documento que usted tuvo a bien entregarme el 5 de noviembre de
1991 degrante mi visita a Wash;n9ton. me es qrato expresarle lo
siqu lite:
1.   gstimo qua el Informe  as sumamente negativo con respecto  a
la Repoblica de Panam&, par cuanto indica que nuestro pa£s, como
tal, incumpli6 un sinn4mero ce obligaciones pectadas con el Banco
Mundial y no destaca el hecho Conereto de que fueron los
Gobierno. que rigieron los destinos de nuestro pais hasta el 20
dct diciembre de 1909 los cuales, de manora irresponsable.
actuaron en la forma expresada.
2.   oescor~ocemos   los   intimidados   de  los   incumplimiontos
planteados an el documento en reforancia, raz6n par la cual no
puedo apinar especiftcamente con relaci6n a lo exprwsado en el
documento interno del Banco Mundial.
3.   Estimo que el actual Gobierno do la Rept;blica de PenamA y el
pais, han demostrado corrtccian en el maneJo de sus relaciones
internacionales y concretamonte ante el Banco Mundial, par lo quo
seria Justo que el Informe a qua me he reforido so completara por
medio de  un anexo que  relate los  eventos posteriores at -.0 de
dciembro de 1989.
4.   Considero, que de 'tu presentarse adecuedamente los esfucrzos
de nuestro pdis, los cuales harn pormitido cancelar los etrasos y
permitirm tllevar una nuova operaci6n al Directoria del Banco
Munctal, 5o podria presenter una Imagen distorsionada y no
ajustada a la realidad actual de nuostro pais.
sin otca povtirilar, me as gratn suscrLbirme. muy atentement&.
_    ,      H~~1inistro
I/ 



