OFFICIAL --
DOCUMENTS        LOAN NUMBER 2-3   PAN
DOCUMENTS_
Loan Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  f) fjf  L-1Y       2-3      , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "structural adjustment program" means the program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy as set forth in a letter
from the Borrower to the Bank dated August 30, 1983.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured through negotiated
purchase after solicitation of quotations from three reliable
suppliers from at least two countries which are members of the
Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to twelve thousand four hundred sixty-nine dollars
($12,469).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section  2.06. The    Borrower  shall  pay  to   the  Bank  a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the princ! al amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed;
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably


﻿- 3 -
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum;
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drp,wn down after June 30,
1982, and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985;
and
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or       the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Ministry of Agricultural Development,
Ministry of Health, and Social Security Agency with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Vice Minister of
Planning and Economic Policy shall be in charge of the admini-
strative coordination of the Project as between the Ministries
involved and shall make appropriate arrangements in that regard,
including: (i) the appointment of the Director of the Office of
Economic and Social Planning in the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy as Project Coordinator, and (ii) the appointment
of a Project Manager, whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Project Coordinator in
the administration of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants   and  experts  whose   qualifications,  experience   and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants and experts to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelnes for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate the work of said consultants and experts, cooperate
fully with them in the performance of their services, and make
available  to   them  all  such  information,  staff   and  office
facilities as shall be necessary or useful to the successful
execution of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall assign qualified professional staff
in adequate numbers in its departments and agencies where the
Project is carried out to work with said consultants and experts.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ an agent acceptable
to the Bank, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for the
hiring of the consultants and experts referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement and for the procurement of the goods
required for the Project, on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower   shall  cause  all goods and    services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) Promptly upon their preparation, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Bank, for comments, the recommenda-
tions emanating from the studies set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall, promptly upon receipt of the Bank's
comments on such recommendations, prepare, where appropriate,
plans of action for the carrying out of such recommendations
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon and, thereafter,
carry out such plans which shall have been found acceptable by
the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports and contract documents for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (incl-
uding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to visit   the  facilities
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective  obligations  under   the  Loan  Agreement   and  the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Cov-enants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or mit,ht result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property, and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one yeair after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿- 7 -
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions
namely, that the Borrower has employed the agent referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ,1ate         1Y     , 1983, is hereby
specified for the purposes df"Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section  6.01. The Ministro    de Planificacion y Pol(tica
Econ6mica of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planificacion y
Polftica Econo'Mica
Apartado 2694
Panama 3
Panama
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIPLANIFICACION                 2738 MIPPE
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washingto.., D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in /
s 4 77as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By//        )C4a'0C 6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants              3,990,000          100%
and experts
(2) Training abroad             90,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Equipment and              250,000          100% of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures for
items imported
but procured
locally
(4) Project Management         400,000          100% of foreign
(agent's fee under                         expenditures
Section 3.03 of
this Agreement)
(5) Fee                         12,469          Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                257,531
TOTAL              5,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.      The disbursement percentages have been      calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
Category as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, may be
made in respect of Category 1 on account of expenditures made
before that date but after October 1, 1983.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot   fully   meet   the  estimated   shortfall,   reduce   the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall bive been made.


﻿- 11 -
6.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its structural adjustment program, consists of the
following parts:
Part A:   Trade and Price Policies in the Borrower's Agricultural
Sector
Carrying out of a study on alternative policies for the
agricultural sector, including: (i) review of the cost effective-
ness and benefits of current price policies; (ii) analysis of
policies affecting trade of agricultural products; (iii) propo-
sals for revision of the Borrower's Agricultural Incentives Law
(Law No. 19, dated October 5, 1982); (iv) policy recommendations
on reducing market distortions; and (v) recommendations on an
appropriate agricultural policy for the Borrower.
Part B:   Strengthening of the Borrower's Agricultural Insti-
tutions
1.   Carrying out of a study to review the role of the Borrower's
agricultural institutions, including the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock Development, the Institute of Agricultural Market-
ing and the Agricultural Development Bank, and to make recom-
mendations on changes required for the efficient carrying out of
the Borrower's new agricultural policy.
2.   Carrying out of a study of the management information system
of the agricultural institutions.
3.     Advising the Borrower on divesting itself of selected
assets.
Part C:   Effective Protection in the Industrial Sector
Carrying out of a study on the reduction of quantitative
import controls and the rationalization and simplification of
tariffs on imports.
Part D:   Financial, Actuarial, Administrative and Managerial
Technical Assistance for the Borrower's Social Security
Agency
1.    Carrying out of an independent financial analysis of the
Borrower's Social Security Agency.


﻿- 13 -
2.    Carrying out of an actuarial evaluation of the Borrower's
social security system.
3.    Advising the Borrower on strengthening the managerial and
financial procedures of the Social Security Agency.
Part E: Study of the Health-Care System
Carrying out of a study to identify causes of inefficiency
in the Borrower's health-care system and make recommendations for
a more effective and economic system of health care.
Part F:   Multi-modal Transport Study of the Panama City - Col6n
Corridor
Carrying out of a study to determine the most economic use
of the trans-isthmian transport alternatives between Panama City
and Colon and make recommendations on appropriate transport
policy and transport investments for said Corridor.
Part G:
Carrying out of such additional studies, in support of the
Borrower's structural adjustment program, as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree.
Part H:
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
the plans of action referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this
Agreement.
Part I:   Training
1.   Training  of   the  staff  of  the  Borrower's  Agricultural
Institutions referred to in Part B of this Schedule.
2.   Training of the staff of the Borrower's Social Security
Agency.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1987
through   August 15, 1998                   210,000
On February 15, 1999                             170,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as t.te premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                             1.00
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    3     day of vU      198 .
FOR SECRETARY


