OCMENTS         CREDIT NUMBER 1048 CE
Project Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1048 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A     JA       6X         ,1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD (hereinafter called the
Board).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($19,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Board, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Board on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Board shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Board in carrying out
the Project, the Board shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association and the Board.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Board undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Board to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Board shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) the Board shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Board: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Board
and the Association, the Board shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Board
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) The Board shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Board and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. The Board shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Board shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Board shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Board shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Board of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Board
Section 3.01. The Board shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. (a) The Board shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations and
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Board shall at all times manage its affairs, plan
its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accor-
dance with sound business, financial and public utility practices,
under the supervision of experienced and competent management, and
with the assistance of adequate, qualified and experienced staff.
(c) The Board shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(d) Except in the normal course of business, the Board shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business.
Section 3.03. The Board shall furnish to the Association,
any proposal for major changes in the Board's organizational
structure, prior to implementing such proposals.
Section 3.04. The Board shall, by June 30, 1981, furnish to
the Association a program satisfactory to the Association and the
Board for the training of staff, and thereafter implement such
program in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and the Bc-rd.
Section 3.05. In the event that the electrical undertakings
carried on by local authorities are to be transferred to the
Board, the Board shall, prior to the date of transfer, prepare and
agree with the Association a program for such transfer.
Section 3.06. The Board shall, after consultation with
the Association, implement a program for the improvement of its
management, based on the recommendations of the consultant refer-
red to in Section 5.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Board shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Board shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than: (A) four months after the end of each
such year, certified copies of its financial statements for such
year; and (B) ten months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Board shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year immediately preceeding such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.25 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means all debt of the Board, including
debt for the service of which the Board is responsible, maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, adjusted to take account of the Board's tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in


﻿-6-
effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all expenses of operation and maintenance in
connection with the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity, administration, and taxes, if any, but before deduc-
tion of provision for depreciation of assets, interest and other
charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund allocations, if
any), of, and interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section, or of Section
4.04 hereof, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at such rate of
exchange as shall be reasonably determined by the Association;
such valuation shall exclude any amount to which the Borrower may
be entitled or liable in accordance with Section 42 (6) of the
Ceylon Electricity Board Act.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Board shall before the start of each fiscal year
review, and adjust if necessary, its tariffs, to provide suffi-
cient revenue to cover operating expenses including taxes, if any,
and straight-line depreciation, and to produce an annual return on
the current value of its net fixed assets in service of eight per
cent (8%) or such higher return as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower, the Association and the Board.
(b) Prior to the payment to the Borrower, of any dividend on
the share capital of the Board, including any dividend referred to
in Section 39 (b) of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, or to the
making of any other payment or distribution to the Borrower in
respect of any such year, the Board, out of its net income, shall
satisfy, or make due provision for the satisfaction of, not less
than 30% of the capital expenditures incurred in respect of such
year, after adding thereto or deducting therefrom the amount of
any shortfall or excess in the amount so satisfied or provided for
in respect of the immediately preceding fiscal year below or above
30% of the capital expenditures incurred in respect thereof.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-7-
(i) the annual return shall be calculated by relating
net income before interest and other charges on
debt for that year to the average of the current
value of net fixed assets in service at the begin-
ning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "current value of net fixed assets" means
the gross value of fixed assets as initially
revalued in accordance with the valuation study
provided for in Part V of Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement between the Bank and the Board dated
July 28, 1969 and thereafter as annually reviewed
and revalued from time to time, on the basis of
appropriate methods of valuation acceptable to the
Association, less the amounts accumulated in
respect of:
(1) depreciation of assets (as so revalued);
and
(2) consumers' contributions or other contribu-
tions to capital expenditures all in accor-
dance with proper accounting principles
consistently applied;
(iii) the term "net income" means all revenues of the
Board except income from investments not directly
related to its operations, less all operating
expenses;
(iv) the term "operating expenses" means all expenses of
operation and maintenance in connection with the
generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity, and of administration, including
adequate provision for depreciation, and for taxes,
if any, but excluding provision for interest and
other charges on debt;
(v) the term "the capital expenditures" shall mean all
expenditures, including interest during construc-
tion but excluding operating expenses, incurred in
connection with the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity either:
(A)   by the Board; or


﻿-8-
(B) by any Government Department or body for
the purpose of each Joint Scheme entered into
by such Department or body as referred to in
Section 12 (1) of the Ceylon Electricity Board
Act; and
(vi) the term "debt" and "debt service requirements"
have the meanings respectively set forth in Section
4.03 of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Board shall ensure that as at the last
working day of each month the aggregate amount due to it in
respect of electricity supplied by the Board for which meters
shall have been read (other than amounts disputed under Section 55
of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act and any amounts duly written
off in the books of the Board) shall not exceed the aggregate
amount of billings issued by the Board in respect of the period
of 3 months expiring on such day or, if earlier, on the latest
date as at which such aggregate amount of billings is known to the
Board.
Section 4.06. The Board shall: (i)    by December 31, 1980,
complete the on-going tariff study and review its tariff structure
in consultation with the Borrower and the Association; and (ii)
thereafter implement any agreed recommendations in accordance with
a timetable satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and
the Board.
Section 4.07. The Board shall by December 31, 1982, complete
the reduction of its inventories to levels satisfactory to the
Association, and thereafter maintain its inventories at such
levels.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Developmene Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Board thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿9-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Board of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request.-The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For the Board:
Ceylon Electricity Board
P.O. Box 540
Colombo
Sri lanka
Cable address:                     Telex:
KILOWATTS                         1368 KILOWATTS CE
Colombo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Board may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing, and the Board shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By5
Regional Vice President
South Asia
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
By/5/   iJ.
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Board shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Board shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 12 -
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka if the bidder shall have established to
the- satisfaction of the Board and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added int Sri Lanka equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) GrouE C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 13 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Vehicles, equipment and materials, each item not exceeding
the equivalent of $10,000, may be procured in accordance with the
Board's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided that items to be procured shall not exceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $100,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Board shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, toge-
ther with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Board
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Board and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 14 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Board shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Board and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Board shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Board
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


