OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1048 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1048 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Ceylon Electri-
city Board with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the said Board
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Saudi Fund
for Development (hereinafter called the Saudi Fund) a loan (here-
inafter called the Saudi Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$20,000,000 (twenty million dollars) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Saudi Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Ceylon Electricity Board;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Ceylon Electricity Board of even date here-
with, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Ceylon Electricity
Board pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Board" means the Ceylon Electricity Board, a statutory
authority established pursuant to the Ceylon Electricity Board
Act;
(d) "Ceylon Electricity Board Act" means the Ceylon Elec-
tricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969, as amended;
(e) "Joint Scheme" means any joint scheme for the generation
of electrical energy, the irrigation of land, the control of
floods or other like purposes as referred to in Section 12 (1) of
the Ceylon Electricity Board Act;
(f) "local authorities" means the local authorities carrying
on electrical undertakings as referred to in Section 21 of the
Ceylon Electricity Board Acl; and
(g) "Rupees" and "Rs" means Rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($19,500,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1990, and ending January 1, 2030,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board and such other person
or persons as he may appoint in writing are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Board to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Board to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the Board under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Board under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including those
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Board
shall participate in the formulation of each Joint Scheme and
enter into the same on terms and conditions consistent with the
performance by the Board of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Board:
(i) on or prior to the commencement of each fiscal year
of the Board, an estimate of all capital expendi-
tures to be incurred under each Joint Scheme in
respect of such year, revising the same from time
to time as necessary; and
(ii) as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of
each such year, a statement of all such capital
expenditures incurred in respect thereof.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary
to enable the Board to participate in the supervision and control
of the design, construction and operation of the assets referred
to in sub-section (d) of this Section pending their transfer to
the Board as therein mentioned and shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Board all data, information, facilities and
other assistance required for such purpose.
(d) The Borrower shall transfer, or cause to be transferred,
to the Board (upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower, the Board and the Association) all assets relating to
the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity
financed under, or constructed or installed for the purpose of, or
otherwise included in any Joint Scheme entered or to be entered
into by the Board, not later than the coming into operation of
such assets.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that all foreign
exchange required by the Board to maintain reasonable levels of
inventories as referred to in Section 4.07 of the Project Agree-
ment shall be promptly made available to the Board for such
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure the timely payment of all
future amounts owed by the local authorities to the Board, to-
gether with the arrears in accordance with a program satisfactory
to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall take all such action as may be
necessary on its part (including, but without limitation, all
necessary authorizations) to enable the Board to effect such
adjustments in its tariffs as shall be required to comply with the
provisions of Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980
ensure the completion of the following:
(a) the transfer to the Board on terms satisfactory to the
Association, of the Ukuwela hydro-station;
(b) the settlement of the amount shown outstanding in the
Board's accounts in respect of the parity variance on loans
repayable in foreign currencies; and
(c) the determination of the terms of funding by the Bor-
rower to the Board in the Borrower's fiscal years 1978 and 1979.


﻿-6-
For purposes of this Section "parity variance" means the
difference resulting from any fluctuation in the value of the
Rupee in relation to the currency or currencies in which a loan
(as referred to in Section 42 (6) of the Ceylon Electricity Board
Act) is expressed.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Board shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Board under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Board or for the suspension of its operations.
(c) The Ceylon Electricity Board Act shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Board to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Board will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made for the
financing of the Project (including the
Saudi Fund Loan), shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement provid-
ing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿-7-
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01. of this Agreement .hall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the Board have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Board;
(c) consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Association
and the Board have been appointed to provide technical assistance
for:
(i) the Board's management;


﻿-8-
(ii) the design and supervision related to Part 3 of the
Project;
(d) the Association has been furnished with the accounts
referred to in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement, with respect
to the fiscal year of the Board ending December 31, 1979;
(e) an increase in tariffs of about 65% has been introduced;
and
(f) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to
the Association for the .commitment of the Saudi Fund Loan.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Board, and is legally binding upon the Board in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Board and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and -the Board in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date                             is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                        Telex:
SECMINFIN                           1232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category,
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials          8,500,000        100% of foreign
and installations for                         expenditures
the 132 kV trans-
mission systems
(2) Equipment and                 7,500,000  )     100% of foreign
materials for the                       )     expenditures
33 kV subtrans-                         )     for directly
mission system                          )     imported items,
)     100% of local
(3) Vehicles and ser-               500,000  )     expenditures
vice equipment                          )     (ex-factory)
)     for locally
)     maunfactured
)     items, and 65%
)     for locally
)     procured items
(4) Consultants' services         2,000,000        100% of foreign
and training                                  expenditures
(5) Unallocated                   1,000,000
TOTAL        19,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 11 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to June 19, 1980, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000 may be
made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 12 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the extension of the electricity
transmission and distribution system in Sri Lanka and comprises:
1.   The extension of the existing 132 kV system by the
construction of approximately 222 miles of 132 kV lines and the
construction, extension and installation of associated substa-
tions, facilities and equipment.
2.   The extension of the existing 33 kV system by the
construction of:
(a)   approximately 500 miles of 33 kV subtransmission
lines; and
(b)   approximately 125 miles of 33 kV lines and
distribution lines, and the construction and
installation of about 250 substations, and asso-
ciated facilities and equipment.
3.   The extension of the existing Colombo distribution
system, including two new 132 kV primary distribution substations,
augmentation of existing primary distribution substations, and
extensions and alterations to the 11 kV underground cable network,
and the installation of associated facilities and equipment.
4.   Detailed engineering design and preparation of bid-
documents for the Board's future 220 kV transmission project
related to the completion of the Mahaweli hydrostations.
5.   Technical assistance and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and the Board
Amount                           $19,500,000 equivalent
Repayment period                 20 years
Grace period                      3 years on the principal
Interest rate                    10% per annum
Foreign Exchange risk            to be borne by the Borrower


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2        day of
1980
FOR SECRETARY


