Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          FILE  L
Report No. P-2538-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1979
This document bus a restricted distrbuion and may be used by recipients only in the performnuce of
their official dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be diswimed witbout World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                                    Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar (D) is floating. The rate used in
the staff appraisal report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$ 1             T TD  0.420
TD  1     -        US$2.38
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               .     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)    =      0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)            =     2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)               =     0.2642 US gallons
1 metric ton (m ton)      =     2,205 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year                                              January 1 to December 1
Abbreviations
BDET        Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
CIMER       Constructions Individuelles de Maisons Evolutives Rationalisees (Site
and Services Developments in Sfax)
CPSCL       Caisse de Prgts et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales (Fund to
Support Local Communities)
CPU         Central Project Unit
MPU         Municipal Project Unit
ONAS        Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewerage Authority)
OTTEEFP     Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens a l'Etranger de l'Emploi et de la
Formation Professionnelle (National Employment Office)
SNIT        Societe Nationale Immobiliare de Tunisie (National Real Estate
Company)
SONEDE      Societe Nationale  d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
(National Water Company)
STB         Societe Tunisienne de Banque
STEG        Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (National Electric and
Gas Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:       The Municipalities of Tunis and Sfax, Societe Tunisienne
de Banque (STB) and the District of Tunis
Amount:              US$19.0 million equivalent
Terms:'              Seventeen years including four years of grace with
interest at 7.9 percent per annum
Relending Terms:    The Government would make $7.1 million of the Bank loan
available as budgetary allocations to the Ministries of
Planning, Public Health, Education, Agriculture, Public
Works, and Industry, Mines and Energy, and to the District
of Tunis; $11.4 million would be on-lent to the Municipali-
ties of Tunis and Sfax through the Caisse des Prets (CPSCL)
and $0.6 million would be on-lent to STB, both on the
terms of the Bank loan. Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The major objective of the proposed project is to develop
and implement low cost solutions to Tunisia's urban
problems, particularly in the areas of shelter, social
and infrastructure services and employment, within the
context of an institutional framework designed to
effectively carry out this project and to plan and
implement future similar projects. The project would be
implemented in Tunisia's two largest cities, Tunis and
Sfax, and would consist of: (i) comprehensive upgrading
in five low-income settlements; (ii) site and services;
(iii) education facilities in low-income areas; (iv) a
small business assistance program; (v) improvements in
solid waste collection and disposal; (vi) improvements
in traffic conditions; and (vii) technical assistance for
project implementation, institution building and studies.
About 40 percent of the population expected to benefit
from the project have incomes below the Bank-defined urban
poverty threshold. About 43 percent of total project cost
would reach this group.
Risks related to the technical aspects of the project are
minimal. Other risks relate to the continuation of
Government commitment to implement the project, coordina-
tion among the various agencies responsible for carrying
out the project, and the full recovery of project costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                               ----------US$ Million----------
Local         Foreign       Total
Upgrading                                    13.0            9.0          22.0
Site and services                             4.3           3.0            7.3
Small business assistance                     0.6           0.6            1.2
Solid waste collection
and disposal                                1.3           2.2            3.5
Education services                            0.5           0.2            0.7
Traffic improvement                           0.4           0.4            0.8
Technical assistance                          0.3           0.9            1.2
Administration                                0.9             - _0.9
Total base cost                          21.3           16.3          37.6
Physical Contingencies                        1.1            1.0           2.1
Price Contingencies                           2.6           2.7            5.3
TOTAL                                     25.0*         20.0          45.0
* Of which $5 million represents taxes.
Financing Plan:
----------US$ Million----------
Local         Foreign       Total
Bank                                            -          19.0           19.0
Dutch Bilateral Aid                           1.4            1.0           2.4
Government of Tunisia                        16.1              -          16.1
Municipality of Tunis                         4.9              -           4.9
Municipality of Sfax                          2.0              -           2.0
STB                                           0.6             - _0.6
Total                                     25.0          20.0          45.0
Rate of Return:            28 percent for upgrading and site and services,
calculated on $29.4 million, representing 65 per-
cent of total project cost.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 2372-TUN of May 8, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$19.0 million to help
finance a Second Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. A
portion of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Municipalities of
Tunis and Sfax ($11.4 million) and the Societe Tunisienne de Banque ($0.6
million) on the terms of the proposed loan. A loan of about $2.4 million
equivalent, made to the Tunisian Government in 1976 by the Kingdom of the
Netherlands would be used to finance upgrading works in Tunis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An updating economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978; its
report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN)
was issued on November 16, 1978. Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.         Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semi-arid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast, in the Northwest, and in a few oases, but continues to play
an important role in Tunisia's economic structure. During 1970-77 agriculture
generated some 17 percent of GDP and accounted for some 40 percent of total
employment. The main crops are wheat and olives. These crops are subject to
sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular rainfall in the case of
wheat and a natural production cycle for olives. Tunisia's most important
raw materials are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas; except for phosphates,
known reserves are relatively small. Industrial development, although rapid,
has been hampered by shortages of industrial entrepreneurs, the limited size
of the domestic market and difficulties in marketing Tunisian products abroad.
The most important sector is services, which, during 1970-77, generated about
half of GDP, a quarter of that sector's contribution consisting of government
services. Tourism has developed rapidly during the 1970s. Workers' remit-
tances have become a significant item in the balance of payments, generating
about 10 percent of current account receipts during 1970-77.
4.         Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during the period
1970-77. Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.6 percent, nearly twice
as fast as during the 1960s. Per capita GNP in 1977 reached $860, which in
real terms is some 72 percent above its level of 1969. According to the 1978
World Bank Atlas, Tunisia was one of the few countries in the world whose per
capita GNP during 1970-76 increased by 6 percent and more.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Second Urban
Sewerage Project (No. P-2485-TUN), approved March 22, 1979.



5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement and partly to fortuitous factors. During the 1960s, Tunisia's
policy orientation centered on an inward-looking investment strategy based on
state predominance in all important economic activities. Economic management
relied on a complex system of government regulations. In 1969, new policy
orientations were announced, which, during the 1970s, resulted in change
towards a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative
could play an increasing role. A number of decontrol measures were introduced,
albeit slowly. Overall, the new policy orientation proved highly beneficial
for the country. In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather
conditions resulting in good agricultural crops while the change in world mar-
ket prices during 1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terms of trade
improved sharply. This allowed domestic savings to increase to 22 percent of
GDP during 1970-77, compared with 15 percent during the 1960s. Tunisia's
dependence on external financing declined from about 32 percent of investment
in 1969 to 25 percent in 1977; the share was as low as 15 percent during
1973-76, when gains from the terms of trade were at their peak. The balance
of payments had been in continuous overall surplus since 1967, but after
1975 this was no longer the case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate
while imports continued to increase rapidly. However, Tunisia's debt service
ratio in 1977 was still a low 8.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.        Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make substantial social
gains during the 1970s. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 96
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups.
Education is free virtually through university. Public health services have
been expanded, with many services provided free. A family planning program
has been introduced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The
birth rate declined from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 36.4 per thousand in
1976 while the rate of natural growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent in the
same period. Attempts have been made to correct regional imbalances and to
improve income distribution. The share of the population living in absolute
poverty declined from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However,
important disparities remain between income levels among individuals and
regions. In coping with the social aspects of development, Tunisia faces
strongly increased aspirations of its population in the face of limited
natural and financial resources.
7.        The most important problem facing the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1977, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 220,000 people--were unemployed. In addition, there is considerable
hidden unemployment in agriculture, which employed about 35 percent of the
labor force in 1977. If one considers that about 40 percent of this labor
force does not have full time jobs, the effective unemployment rate is more
like 25 percent. An increasing number of young people born during the high
birth rate years are reaching working age and a growing number of women are
joining the labor force. About half of the registered unemployed are young
people seeking their first employment. These are mostly relatively educated
people whose job aspirations cannot be met.



- 3 -
8.        During 1970-77, agriculture provided about 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing accounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent
of value added in manufacturing. During this period agricultural production
rose substantially, largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infra-
structure investments were made during the last decade. Current policy, which
emphasizes projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production,
recognizes various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of
tenure; inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension ser-
vices; insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations.
9.        During the 1960s, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by
8 percent annually. This growth rate accelerated in the 1970s to 11 percent
annually, due in part to record years for the olive oil processing industry
and to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The
early thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution
projects. These suffered, however, from the limited domestic market and from
shortages of experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis
has been put on export-oriented private industries, particularly in food
processing, textiles, fertilizers and mechanical and electrical industries.
Foreign and domestic private investment is now stimulated by a comprehensive
incentive framework and facilitated by streamlined approval procedures of the
investment promotion agency. Foreign investors are expected to contribute
know-how and overseas marketing capability. Although an agreement between
Tunisia and the European Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty
free entry into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, new
restrictions have recently been imposed. The Government has established a
special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial decentral-
ization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1 million in 1977, with an average annual rate of
growth during 1970-1977 of 12 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $315 million in 1977;
this was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was
exceeded only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in
Tunisia has unfortunately not been accompanied by adequate development of
infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities), trained manpower, or
related services. The Government is endeavoring to alleviate these con-
straints through a variety of measures including revised investment incentives,
increased marketing and training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards,
and more stringent zoning laws.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additional labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency in
major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural goods);
(iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability through
incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. The Plan foresees an



- 4 -
average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.3 percent. This is somewhat below
the 9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous factors
prevalent during the early 1970s were not expected to continue. Investment
is projected at D 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices during the
Plan. In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent greater
during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan period. Nonetheless, the
targeted average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth
Plan is only 4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high invest-
ment level achieved in 1976 in an effort to meet targets of the preceding
Plan.
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to export as
much value-added as possible. Extraction and distribution of newly discovered
offshore gas deposits in the Gulf of Gabes rank prominently in the list of
major projects. This gas will substitute for petroleum-based fuels, freeing
the latter for export. Eventually, gas will also be used as an input for the
chemical industry. Private sector initiative is expected to dominate invest-
ment in textiles, mechanical and electrical industries, and tourism. It is in
these activities that the authorities expect most employment creation to take
place. Employability of the labor force is to be increased through education
and training programs. Efforts towards regional development are to be pursued
through establishing regional planning structures, strengthening regional
administration and developing incentives for the decentralization of produc-
tive activities. The strategy proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent
any major departure from the strategy pursued successfully during the preced-
ing Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to support further development with appro-
priate policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing
towards continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3
percent growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy. The
investment priorities formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to
support the sectoral strategies. There are, however, some less favorable
signs. Tunisia's development recently benefited from the structural changes
in world market prices and from excellent weather conditions. As noted above,
it cannot be expected that these fortuitous factors will continue in Tunisia's
favor to the same extent as in the past. Hence, Tunisia will have to rely
increasingly on its own resources. As the resource base is relatively narrow,
available resources should be efficiently deployed. Achieving the Plan tar-
gets presupposes the timely introduction and successful execution of measures
to (i) strengthen the absorptive capacity for investment, especially for labor
intensive projects; (ii) promote exports; (iii) base economic management on
an efficient price and incentive system and improve productivity; and (iv)
mobilize the resources needed to realize the comprehensive social development



- 5 -
targets while maintaining domestic and external financial stability. The
Tunisian authorities have begun to introduce measures in these respects.
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
in particular will be of crucial importance to finance the planned level of
investment. On the domestic side, there is a great need for increased savings
and improved financial intermediation. The Government sector, in particular,
will again be called upon to contribute substantially to the savings effort.
The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies and
increased revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collec-
tion). In addition, the public enterprise sector will have to increase sub-
stantially its contribution to public savings through better management and
especially through cost-related increases in the sale prices of selected
enterprises. Externally, Tunisia would have total financing requirements
(disbursement basis) of some $2.8 billion during 1977-81. Given the country's
creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able to mobilize such financing without
putting undue strain on the country's debt servicing capacity (see below,
para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960s Tunisia has obtained large amounts of
official aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum
for aid-coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-77,
annual loan commitments from public sources averaged $235 million, or about
$43 per capita. About 73 percent of these commitments came from bilateral
public sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. About 17 percent came from oil-producing countries whose share
increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1977. Commitments
from the Bank Group during 1970-77 accounted for 20 percent of total public
commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms; in 1977 the
average terms of borrowing were 5.8 percent interest and 20 years maturity,
including 6 years of grace. During 1970-77 Tunisia also received annually
some $43 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources averaged
$34 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has been compara-
tively small, it has recently picked up momentum following increased activity
in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign investors in
manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19 million in
1970 to $75 million in 1977.
16.       At the end of 1977, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $1.6 billion, or 32 percent of GDP compared with some
40 percent in 1970. According to preliminary estimates, it has reached about
$2 billion at the end of 1978. The debt service ratio in 1977 was 8.9 per-
cent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This significant decline in the debt
service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase in export earnings follow-
ing the changes in world market prices in 1973/74. External borrowing at the
rate projected in the 1977-81 Plan (para. 13) would increase debt service
obligations in relation to exports to around 13 percent by 1981 and 17 percent
by 1986, according to current Bank projections. At these levels, the debt
service burden would be manageable, particularly when seen in the light of
Tunisia's long record of prudent and skillful balance of payments and external
debt management. Tunisia is therefore considered creditworthy for further
Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-two loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $497.0 million and $70.1 million, net
of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.  While disbursements of some loans and credits have
been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole, project execution has
been satisfactory. As of December 31, 1978, total disbursements amounted to
54 percent of initial appraisal forecasts, and to 67 percent of revised
forecasts. In a number of sectors, important institutional improvements have
been achieved and independent agencies have been created or strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public serv-
ices. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encourage
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of proj-
ects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects, and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage,
education, family planning and the Tunis District urban planning and public
transport project has accounted for 31 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in
Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure
has accounted for an additional 31 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have
received 16 percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted
for 17 percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project received 5 percent
of total commitments.
20.       In 1973 a loan of $11 million and a credit of $7 million were made
for the Tunis District urban planning and public transport project to support
the first regional planning authority in Tunisia, the Tunis District, and to
assist the Societe Nationale de Transport (SNT) in improving its organization,
upgrading its maintenance and traffic operations and renewing its bus fleet
and railway rolling stock. The major part of the project has been completed
and most objectives have been met. Studies carried out under this project
have proviLd the basis for most of the improvements included under the second
urban development project proposed in this report.



21.       In addition to the proposed loan for a second urban development
project, a loan for a second fisheries project is expected to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the current fiscal year. The second urban sewerage
project was approved in March 1979, and the fifth water supply project was
negotiated in April 1979. In the next and subsequent fiscal years, Bank lend-
ing intends to support the two objectives set by the Government to balance
its economy, namely promotion of agriculture and of export-oriented and
employment-generating industries. Emphasis will be placed on agricultural
production projects in less developed regions, such as an irrigation project
in Southern Tunisia, an agricultural development project in the Northwest, and
continued assistance for agricultural credit. Bank assistance to industry
will focus on small-scale industrial enterprises, mechanical and electrical
industries and possibly rehabilitation of the textile subsector; this assis-
tance may also include financing for the Miskar project for the development
and distribution of Tunisia's offshore gas resources. The program would also
continue financing selected priority social development projects, such as a
second population project, a vocational training project and further assis-
tance to education.
22.       The Bank Group accounted for about 20 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-77. The Bank Group's shares in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1977 (including loans from private
sources) and in debt service during 1977 were 14 percent in both cases. The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected to
remain unchanged from about 14 percent in 1977, but its share in debt service
would decline to about 12 percent of total.
23.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumin-
ium fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord inte-
grated tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total
$15.7 million. IFC's Board has approved the sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais
to the Tunisian Government.
PART III - THE SECTOR
24.       Of Tunisia's total population of about 6 million, 47 percent, or
about 2.7 million people, live in urban areas, most of which are found along
the eastern coast of the country. The urban growth rate has averaged about
4.2 percent annually over the past 15 years while the total population growth
rate has averaged about 2.3 percent annually. Nearly two-thirds of the urban
population is concentrated in the three major cities of Tunis, Sfax and
Sousse. By far the largest and probably fastest growing urban agglomeration
is that of Greater Tunis where the population exceeds one million.
25.       In contrast to the average annual population growth rate of 2.3
percent, the rate of natural increase between 1964 and 1977 was 2.6 percent,



the difference representing net emigration, mostly of skilled labor to Europe
and the Middle East. Not only has emigration to Europe now virtually ceased,
but significant numbers of Tunisian workers and their families are now return-
ing home. Many of them are resettling in the major urban areas where the
skills they acquired abroad are in greatest demand. The other major direction
of population movement has been from rural to urban areas, composed mostly
of jobless rural workers seeking employment. Although the Government has
endeavored to ease this trend through special rural programs, rural-urban
migration continues to be significant. A third migratory movement that can
be identified is a pattern of movement from rural to small urban and subse-
quently to large urban areas. This has resulted in a particular strain on
the traditionally largest urban areas such as Tunis and Sfax.
26.       The major problem in Tunisia's urban areas today is inadequate
housing, services and employment. In 1977, there was an estimated shortage
in urban areas of 32,000 housing units. About 17 percent of all urban housing
is provided through heavily subsidized public housing programs, but fully half
the urban population cannot afford the least expensive unit. The continuing
housing shortage has led to a steady increase in the density of illegal
squatter settlements in and around the country's major urban areas. It is
estimated that some 800,000 people now inhabit such settlements, some of which
have existed since the early 1930s. One-third of the nation's total housing
units is located in these uncontrolled settlements, which are growing at an
average rate of 10,000 units a year. Up to 40 percent of these units may be
makeshift. Most squatter settlements, particularly the more recent ones, are
virtually without roads, water, sewerage and electricity and lack sufficient
health and education facilities. The oldest settlements have benefitted from
some services but these are far from adequate.
27.       Each of Tunisia's 18 governorates, or provinces, is headed by a
governor appointed by the President supported by a council composed of
representatives of professional and social organizations. Budgets of the
provinces are approved by and entirely funded through the Ministry of In-
terior. Urban areas or municipalitias (also known as communes) are ad-
ministrative subdivisions of the province, and are defined by the Municipal
Law. There are 155 municipalities in Tunisia, each with an elected municipal
council and an elected mayor. Municipalities levy local taxes to generate
financial resources although the proceeds of these are very limited; the bulk
of their revenues comes from Government budget contributions and allocations
of a share in certain taxes. The technical capacity of the municipalities is
also restricted by insufficient qualified staff. The management of urban
growth is entrusted to a number of central government agencies and is largely
uncoordinated. Major responsibility rests with the Ministries of Public
Works, Agriculture, Interior, and Industry, Mines and Energy. The Ministry of
Public Works carries out urban and regional planning nationwide and is re-
sponsible through two public agencies, the Societe Nationale Immobiliere de
Tunisie (SNIT) and the Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS), for municipal
housing development and sewerage and drainage respectively. The Ministry of
Agriculture, through the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution



- 9 -
des Eaux (SONEDE), is responsible for water supply. Local public services
such as solid waste collection and disposal are provided by the Ministry of
the Interior. The Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy is responsible for
providing electricity through the Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et de Gaz
(STEG).
28.       Because of the difficulties inherent in the rational design and
implementation of urban development within this administrative system, the
Government over the past several years has begun to introduce measures to
decentralize some of the responsibility for urban development. On a national
scale, five economic regions, each comprising three or four provinces of
similar socio-economic characteristics, have been identified which could be
expected eventually to assume responsibility for regional development. The
details of this responsibility would be worked out in the context of the
preparation of integrated regional development programs. At the local level,
and in an attempt to respond to the increasingly complex problems of devel-
oping the metropolitan Tunis area, the District of Tunis was created in 1972
as a regional planning authority to coordinate and supervise public investment
and to direct private investment for the 15 municipalities which comprise the
Greater Tunis area (see para 32). The Tunis District is under the authority
of the Governor of Tunis and is supervised by a Higher Council chaired by the
Prime Minister. The District has carried out a series of analyses and studies
on the administrative, financial and technical aspects of creating a regional
development plan, and has supervised the housing feasibility studies for Tunis
and Sfax which provide the basis for the proposed project.
29.       Tunisia's rapid economic growth during the seventies permitted a
substantial expansion of social services, including education, health and
family planning facilities. Government measures to improve income distribu-
tion also resulted in a decrease in the population living in absolute poverty
(see para. 6). During the same period, however, the stagnation of employment
in agriculture and the growth of industry and of tertiary sector activities
resulted in a very rapid growth in the urban population. Government efforts
to keep up with this growth in terms of urban services and housing were
inadequate to meet the demand. Although by 1976 sufficient data was available
pointing to the need for reviewing Tunisia's urban housing policy to meet this
demand, the authorities were reluctant to introduce changes. Thus, although
the Government's Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) allocates about 16 percent
of urban housing investment (representing about 30 percent of total planned
urban units) for the lowest-cost public housing units as compared with 7
percent (or about 20 percent of total urban units) allocated under the pre-
vious Plan, there remains an important gap between the proposed supply of
affordable units and the present demand of the low income population. Many
municipalities have thus begun to plan upgrading and site and services proj-
ects to cope with the problem at the local level. The proposed project, which
would be managed largely at the local level but coordinated and monitored at
the central Government level, could be expected to provide a model for urban
development that could become part of the central Government urban planning
effort.



- 10 -
Bank Sector Strategy and Lending
30.       Bank lending in Tunisia in the urban sector is aimed at supporting
Government efforts to improve public sector management, project preparation
and public services, to strengthen financial policy and to introduce measures
to promote decentralization and alleviate income inequalities. This strategy
has translated into projects or components of projects designed to meet the
needs of the cities in the areas of education, family planning, job-creation,
water supply, sewerage and public transport, and to strengthen the institu-
tions responsible for providing these services. Education loans have helped
finance the construction of middle level and teacher training schools as well
as workshops in many urban areas. A proposed fourth education project would
focus on strengthening vocational training. Under the industrial finance
project approved in FY78, a $5 million loan to Government and a $2 million
loan included under the seventh line of credit to the Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET) were earmarked to provide technical and financial
assistance to small enterprises. A population project included construction
of a network of maternity clinics as well as hospitals in Tunis, Sfax, Sousse
and Bizerte.
31.       Four water supply projects focussed on increasing the supply and
treatment capacity of potable water for Greater Tunis, Sfax and its surround-
ing areas, and several medium-sized towns in northern Tunisia. A fifth proj-
ect focuses on the expansion and improvement of water distribution systems in
intermediate and small towns, in rural areas and in the low-income areas of
cities. A first urban sewerage project assisted in establishing the national
sewerage authority, ONAS, and aimed at renewing and expanding the sewer
network and at providing additional treatment facilities in Greater Tunis.
One of the major objectives of this project was to strengthen the District of
Tunis by creating a formal relationship between the District and ONAS in the
implementation of all sewerage works in the District's jurisdiction. The
second urban sewerage project provides a second stage of sewerage works for
Greater Tunis and extension and improvement of the sewer system in Sfax.
32.        The first Bank assisted urban development project was the Tunis
District Urban Planning and Public Transport project, designed to support the
newly created Tunis District in carrying out its planning, programming and
supervision functions, to train its personnel, and to help improve traffic
in Tunis. The main components of the proposed Second Urban Development proj-
ect were prepared in a series of housing feasibility studies carried out under
the supervision of the Tunis District and with the assistance of a $250,000
advance from the Project Preparation Facility made available in 1976. Under
the proposed project, the District would supervise the implementation of the
solid waste collection and disposal component.
Background on Project Cities
33.        Tunis.  More than one-third of the population of Greater Tunis lives
in the overcrowded Medina in the center of the city and in squatter settle-
ments of varying age and quality that have formed in the center and on the



- l] -
outskirts of the city. Only about half of the population in these settlements
is served with electricity and water, and the sewerage and solid waste collec-
tion and disposal services are inadequate, causing a serious health hazard.
The distribution of schools and clinics is uneven and these services are inade-
quate or non-existent in many of the poorer areas. In addition, since most of
the residents in these settlements have no title to their land, they have been
unwilling to invest to improve or extend their dwellings. Although the over-
all unemployment rate in Tunis is about 13 percent, the rate is substantially
higher among the young and unskilled living in these settlements. The areas
most affected are old settlements like Saida Manoubia and Jebel Lahmar, newer
smaller settlements on the outskirts of the city and very densely populated
areas like the Medina.
34.       Sfax.  With a population of 350,000, Sfax ranks as the second
largest city in Tunisia and is growing at about 3.5 percent per year. Sfax
has a strong tertiary sector employing some 55 percent of the active popula-
tion and the unemployment problem there is less severe than in Tunis. The
pattern of urbanization in Sfax is unique in Tunisia and has led to the
formation of densely populated "rbats" following the traditional medina-type
urban fabric around the center of the city. Water, sewerage and electricity
services are inadequate in Sfax, particularly in the rbats. Sfax also has a
traffic problem due to poor traffic management and competition for limited
road space among bicycles, mopeds, buses, trucks and private cars.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project has been designed to develop a new approach to
the resolution of some of Tunisia's most urgent urban problems, and to
establish an institutional framework capable of developing and implementing
other similar projects in Tunisia. It is conceived as an integrated urban
project with all necessary infrastructure and services in specific locations.
Project components were selected on the basis of Government priority needs and
complement the components of Bank-financed projects in other related sectors
(see paras. 30-32). The project was identified in mid-1974, and prepared by
the Government with the assistance of consultants and of several Bank missions
through 1977. The project was appraised in October/November 1978. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in April 1979. The Tunisian delegation was
headed by Mr. Masmoudi, Deputy Director in the Planning Ministry.  A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Republic of Tunisia, Second Urban Development
Project" (No. 2372-TUN) dated May 8, 1979 is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is provided at the
beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and
maps showing the location of project works are also attached.
Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project has two major objectives.  First, it would
develop and implement a coherent series of low-cost solutions designed to



- 12 -
respond to Tunisia's urban problems in housing, social and infrastructure
services and employment. A particular concern of the project is to meet the
needs of the lowest income groups at a cost they can afford with little
public subsidy. Second, the project would provide for the establishment of
an institutional framework to carry out this project effectively as well as
to design and implement future projects in other urban areas. The project
would be implemented in Tunis and Sfax and would consist of: (i) comprehen-
sive upgrading in five low-income settlements; (ii) site and services; (iii)
education facilities in low-income areas; (iv) a small business assistance
and vocational training program; (v) improvements in solid waste collection
and disposal; (vi) improvements in traffic conditions; and (vii) technical
assistance for project implementation, institution building and studies.
37.       Upgrading.  Five low-income settlements would be improved under the
project, including Saida Manoubia and Jebel Lahmar in Tunis and the rbats of
Chichma, Oued R'Mel/Bir Karouba and Merkez Chaker Sud in Sfax. The improve-
ments planned in all five settlements are considered a priority because of
the low income levels of the inhabitants and the low level of existing infra-
structure and social services. The settlements in Tunis have a population of
76,000 and cover 170 ha. The population of the rbats is estimated at about
17,000 covering an area of about 60 ha. Median household incomes range from
TD 50 to about TD 57 per month. Besides inadequate access to public services,
the main problem in the Tunis settlements is lack of security of tenure.
About half the land in the Tunis settlements is privately owned but almost no
residents are owners. In contrast, land in the Sfax rbats is owned by the
residents.
38.       The works to be carried out include surfacing of about 12,700 m of
primary and secondary roads and 7,200 m of tertiary roads, extension of the
water supply and sewer systems to allow about 80 and 100 percent respectively
of the plots to be connected, extension of street lighting to one light every
50 m, improvement of two existing transfer stations for domestic waste collec-
tion, and construction of primary schools, health centers and markets. Some
1,960 new plots would also be developed within built-up areas (infill plots),
all provided with water, sewerage and electricity connections. About 88 per-
cent of these plots would have an ablution unit, a perimeter wall and a
core house. Building material loans up to about $600 would be provided to
some 4,000 households for home improvements or expansion of core units on
infill plots. Beneficiaries of serviced infill plots without core unit could
obtain construction loans of up to about $1,200 each. The unit cost per
household for upgrading under the project is $1,278. Any families displaced
as a result of upgrading would be compensated by the Municipalities and
relocated in the same project area (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.10).
39.       Site and Services.  In Sfax, about 1,800 low income families and
some 100 small scale enterprises are expected to benefit from the development
of about 1,900 serviced plots in two areas known as Cimer_Nord and Cimer-Sud.
The sites were selected to ensure that employment opportunities were close,
off-site infrastructure was available and land prices were affordable. Both



- 13 -
sites are on flat land and are served by water mains and trunk sewers.  The
two sites, which cover about 26 ha, would be developed to include residential
plots as well as land for workshops and community facilities.  Developed land
would be priced according to location, accessibility and commercial potential.
Plot sizes would range from 72 m2 to 144 m2 and each would have individual
water, sewerage and electricity connections. Forty percent of the plots would
be provided with an ablution unit, a brick perimeter wall and a core house
ranging from 10 to 16 m2. Building material loans would be made available to
permit construction or expansion of housing. Plot prices would range from
about $1,200 to about $3,500; a downpayment of at least 15 percent would be
required at the time of purchase. The unit cost per household for site and
services development is $4,360. The minimum plot option with a $600 building
loan would be affordable to 90 percent of Sfax's urban population. A primary
school with a capacity of 640 students would also be provided on each site.
40.       The beneficiaries of new housing development in upgrading and site
and services areas would be selected on the basis of specific criteria in-
cluding level of income, need, and willingness to accept the downpayment and
monthly payment requirements (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Annex B).
Plot allottees in the Tunis upgrading and Sfax site and services areas would
be given transferable freehold titles to their land. For the first five
years, the title would be transferable only in certain cases and with the
authorization of the municipality. In case of default, the municipality
would foreclose the plotholder's mortgage. Evidence of availability of land
or rights to land necessary to carry out the project in Jebel Lahmar, Saida
Manoubia and Cimer-Sud is likely to be provided shortly and would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness; evidence of this availability for the Cimer-Nord site
would be a condition of disbursement for that sub-component (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(a) and Schedule 1, para. 4).
41.       Education Facilities.  Although urban primary school enrollment had
reached a national average of 95 percent in Tunisia in 1976, the average in
low-income areas is substantially lower. In the context of a Government
program to achieve more balanced primary school enrollment throughout the
Greater Tunis area, four primary schools with a total of 30 classrooms would
be provided under the project as part of low-income public housing programs
in the Tunis District to bring their service level to that currently prevail-
ing in the District. Each classroom would accommodate 40 students and would
operate on double shift.
42.       Small Business Assistance and Training.  The population movements
mentioned in para. 25 combined with increasing numbers of women and school
leavers joining the work force every year have led to a severe unemployment
problem in Tunisia's larger urban areas. The small business assistance com-
ponent of the project aims at creating nearly 1,000 job opportunities in the
project areas by providing a line of credit totalling $1.2 million for small
business loans and related extension services and manpower training. The unit
cost per job created is estimated at $4,150. Loans for equipment purchase
and working capital, expected to represent about 72 percent of all loans
contracted, would average about $1,200; loans for workshop improvement and



- 14 -
construction would not exceed $7,200.  Minimum loan terms would be 8.25 per-
cent, for a period of 8 years including one year grace for workshop construc-
tion loans, and a maximum of 3 years for working capital and equipment loans.
All loans would be secured by a mortgage on plots or a lien on goods. These
terms are comparable with those applied by commercial banks on medium-term
industrial loans, which currently carry interest at 6.75 to 8.25 percent,
repayable over up to 11 years, including two to three years grace.
43.       The small business component would be carried out by the municipal-
ities with the assistance of the Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB) and the
National Employment Office (OTTEEFP) (see para. 54). OTTEEFP, which is
responsible nationwide for training programs, would provide the extension
services and vocational training required for the project through its Employ-
ment Promotion Unit. Courses would be offered in such fields as electrical
work, household appliance repair, carpentry, metal work and mechanics. The
Office would also provide extension services in technical fields and in
elementary business management. The curricula and capacity of OTTEEFP's
training centers in Tunis and Sfax are adequate for project purposes.
44.       Solid Waste Collection and Disposal.  Until now there has been no
regional authority to supervise, coordinate and control solid waste collection
and disposal in Greater Tunis. ONAS, the national sewerage authority, deals
only with water-borne sewerage disposal and not with solid wastes. Waste col-
lection and street cleaning are inadequate due to insufficient and badly main-
tained equipment, public landfills are not controlled, and nearly two-thirds
of the 180,000 tons of household waste produced annually in the District is
disposed of in illegal dumps. The District of Tunis has been instrumental in
the recent adoption of plans to create a regional authority, establish land-
fills, close illegal dumps and examine the possibility of using waste to
produce compost.  Measures to improve the collection of the existing housing
tax are expected to yield sufficient funds to cover the operating costs (esti-
mated at about $1.3 million annually) of all sanitary landfills needed in
Greater Tunis.
45.       The proposed loan would finance the first phase of a comprehensive
solid waste management program for the Greater Tunis area. Elements would
include improvement of maintenance facilities and of six transfer stations,
including one in each of the two project upgrading areas, purchase of vehicles
for solid waste collection and of truck compactors, closure and reclamation of
50 ha of open dumps, provision of services and equipment needed to open and
start operating a new sanitary landfill of a capacity of 55,000 tons per year,
and technical assistance related to the development of alternative designs and
recommendations for the technical, institutional and financial arrangements
needed to ensure efficient management of solid waste in Greater Tunis.
46.       Traffic Improvements.  The proposed project would include several
low-cost improvements to relieve congestion and reduce accidents in Sfax,
particularly among low-income groups such as pedestrians, bicyclists and bus
passengers. Special traffic lanes would be provided for bicycles and mopeds
and for buses, ten major intersections would benefit from improved signaling
equipment, and traffic in the central areas of the city would be eased with
the introduction of a one-way street system. These improvements are expected
to benefit about 150,000 people at a total per capita cost of about $6.



- 15 -
47.       Technical Assistance.  About 150 man-months of technical assistance
would be provided under the project to supplement the various agencies and
units responsible for project implementation. Their focus would be on assist-
ing: (i) the OTTEEFP in implementing the small business program; (ii) the
District of Tunis in implementing the solid waste collection and disposal
component; (iii) the Municipality of Sfax in implementing the Sfax traffic
scheme; (iv) the Directorate of Local Public Authorities in the Ministry of
Interior for municipal staff training; (v) the Caisse de Prets et de Soutien
des Collectivites Locales (CPSCL) for financial and management assistance
(paras. 56, 57); and (vi) the Central Project Unit in executing and monitoring
this project and in preparing future similar projects (para. 58). Experts for
(i), (iv) and (v) above would be provided through CPU.
Cost Estimates
48.        The total cost of the project is estimated at $45 million, of which
$20 million or 44 percent represents foreign exchange cost. The local cost
of $25 million equivalent includes $5 million representing taxes. Physical
contingencies are calculated at 10 percent for infrastructure and community
facilities and 5 percent for service connections and core units. Physical
contingencies have not been included for self-help building material and small
business loans, manpower training or technical assistance. Price contingen-
cies are based on current and projected price escalation rates over the period
of implementation, estimated at 9 percent and 6 percent, respectively, of
baseline cost for equipment and civil works in 1979, and at 8 percent and 6
percent, respectively, thereafter. The average cost of consultant and advisory
services is estimated at $7,000 per man month (including local cost) for
services provided from abroad and $1,000 per man-month for services provided
locally.
Financing Plan
49.       The proposed Bank loan of $19 million, which represents 47 percent
of total project cost (net of taxes), would finance 95 percent of the project's
foreign exchange cost. The balance of the foreign exchange cost of $1 million
as well as $1.4 million equivalent of local costs would be financed by a loan
from the Kingdom of the Netherlands made in 1976 for upgrading two specific
sections in Jebel Lahmar (Tunis). Of the remaining local cost of $23.6 million
equivalent, $16.1 million would be met by the Government, $4.9 million by the
Municipality of Tunis, $2.0 million by the Municipality of Sfax and $0.6 mil-
lion by STB. The Government would be the borrower and would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
50.       About $7.1 million of Bank funds and $6.9 million equivalent of
Government funds, including those obtained from the Dutch loan, would be made
available as budgetary allocations to the relevant Ministries and the District
of Tunis for primary infrastructure works, community facilities, waste col-
lection and disposal, education facilities and technical assistance. The
budgetary allocations earmarked for primary infrastructure and community
facilities (about $6.7 million) would be passed on to the Municipalities of
Tunis and Sfax by the Ministries; the remainder would be retained by the
Ministries concerned for the execution of the components under their direct



- 16 -
responsibility.  Another $11.4 million of Bank funds and $11.7 million equiv-
alent of Government funds would be made available to the Municipalities for
building material loans and upgrading and site and services schemes. The
remaining $0.6 million of Bank funds would be onlent to STB for the small
business assistance component. STB would provide $0.6 million equivalent ot
local funds to match the Bank's contributions for each loan made.
51.       Funds for building material loans and for upgrading and site and
services schemes ($11.4 million Bank and $11.7 million equivalent counterpart)
would be onlent to the Municipalities through the CPSCL.  Bank funds would
be onlent at Bank terms; Government funds would be made available to CPSCL
half as equity and half as interest-free loan, and would be onlent to the
Municipalities at CPSCL's current terms of 2 percent over 20 years. The
Municipalities would onlend to beneficiaries at 6.5 percent over 20 years.
The Municipalities would also make available a combined amount of $6.9 million
equivalent for the project from their budgets, which contain provisions to
that effect. The difference between the lending and borrowing rates of the
Municipalities, estimated at about 1.3 percent, would cover their administra-
tive costs. With all funds in excess of the amount needed to amortize the
Bank loan and repay the loan portion of the Government's contribution, CPSCL
would finance similar projects in the future (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(e)). The signature of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and CPSCL, and of the convention between CPSCL and the Municipalities of
Tunis and Sfax, respectively, would be conditions of effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b) and (c)).
Project Implementation
52.       The major responsibility for the implementation of the project would
rest with the Municipalities of Tunis and Sfax, mainly through a Municipal
Project Unit (MPU) in each city which would manage and execute the project at
the local level. They would have sole responsibility for all aspects of the
upgrading and site and services components and for the traffic improvement
scheme in Sfax, and would assure the coordinated implementation of the small
business program with STB and OTTEEFP. The waste collection and dis-
posal component would be implemented by both the District of Tunis and the
regional authority(ies) to be created. Responsibility for the construction of
primary schools in low income areas would rest with the Ministry of Education.
A technical reinforcement would be provided at a central level by a Central
Project Unit (CPU) in the Ministry of the Interior which would assist the
executing agencies in the implementation of the proposed project and in the
planning and development of other low-cost integrated upgrading and site and
services schemes. The physical and financial coordination of the project as
a whole would be assured by a Coordination Committee composed of representa-
tives of the Ministries of Public Works, Planning, Finance and Interior, and
the Director of the CPU.
53.       The Director of the technical department in each municipality would
coordinate the project and would have direct responsibility for all technical
preparatory work and for construction. He would also chair a Municipal Steer-
ing Committee, composed of all municipal department directors involved in



- 17 -
project implementation. The MPUs would monitor project execution at the
municipal level and would prepare progress reports for submission to the CPU.
The MPUs have been created and their directors appointed.
54.       The municipal director responsible for administration and finance
would coordinate the implementation of the small business program with STB
and OTTEEFP. Applications for loans would be considered by a committee com-
posed of members of these three organizations, based on criteria including
low capital-labor ratio, creditworthiness and the economic and financial
feasibility of proposed investments. The OTTEEFP would screen potential loan
candidates, assist them in filling their applications and present these to the
Municipalities and STB. The STB would determine loan terms and conditions.
The STB is the largest Bank in the country. Established in 1957, STB acts as
a deposit bank, a merchant bank and a development bank. STB has assets of
$750 million; operations in 1977 included $280 million of short-, medium- and
long-term loans. STB has about 1,400 employees and operates a network of 52
branch offices. The OTTEEFP's Employment Promotion Unit, reactivated for
purposes of the project, would be staffed with three economists, an engineer
and several technicians of varying specialities; a small business expert, to
be hired by CPU, would be made available to assist the Office. The small
business component would be implemented in accordance with selection criteria
agreed with the Bank, and a protocol between the the Municipalities and STB
and OTTEEFP, respectively, concerning coordination in implementation and in-
cluding details of these criteria, would be signed by September 30, 1979
(draft Project Agreements with the Municipalities, Section 2.01(c)). The
signature of the convention between the Government and STB concerning imple-
mentation would be a condition of effectiveness. STB will use the funds from
reimbursement of small business loan repayments to finance similar small
business assistance programs.
55.       The solid waste collection and disposal component would be imple-
mented by the District of Tunis, which would be responsible for all elements
involving collection and for studies concerning disposal, and by a regional
authority(ies), expected to be created by June 30, 1980, which would be
responsible for the opening and initial operation of the sanitary landfill and
the closure and restoration of 50 ha of open dumps. Disbursements against
these latter two elements would be contingent on the creation of the regional
authority(ies). The District would hire a waste collection expert and two
assistants by September 30, 1979, and a waste treatment expert within three
months after the creation of the regional authority(ies) (draft Project Agree-
ment with the District of Tunis, Section 2.02).  The Bank would be consulted
no later than December 31, 1979 on the results of the study on arrangements
for solid waste management in Greater Tunis (draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.03).
56.       The CPSCL,  which is under the supervision of the Ministries of the
Interior and Finance, was established in 1975 to supersede the Caisse de Prets
aux Communes created in 1902. The CPSCL was chosen as a major channel for
project financing because its main purpose is to lend to public entities such
as municipalities and governorates for financing public facilities, infrastruc-
ture works and municipal housing development. About 90 percent of CPSCL's
resources derive from Government budgetary allocations. The terms of loans it



- 18 -
makes are 2 percent over 20 years for non-income earning projects and 4
percent over 10 years for income earning projects. CPSCL had assets in 1978
of about $24 million equivalent. It holds its account with BDET which has
major responsibility for the financial management of CPSCL funds.
57.       The CPSCL would be strengthened under the project to keep full
accounts of its operations and with a view to permitting its development
in the long term into a viable municipal lending agency which could advise
municipalities nationwide on financial and technical matters and ensure ade-
quate project monitoring. A municipal banking and finance expert would be
made available by BDET to aid CPSCL as needed, and an expert would be made
available by the CPU to CPSCL on a part-time basis to set up appropriate
commercial accounting procedures. Separate consolidated accounts for the
project will be maintained, audited and submitted regularly to the Bank. A
specific agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be concluded governing the
respective responsibilities of the CPSCL and BDET in the management of loan
funds (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (d)).
58.       The project executing agencies would be assisted in planning
and developing low cost upgrading and site and services schemes by the
newly created CPU. This unit will be established and fully staffed before
November 30, 1979, with a director, three advisors and three permanent staff
specialized respectively in engineering, financial analysis and small business
development and urban planning. After project completion the director and the
permanent staff would constitute a permanent unit to plan and develop similar
upgrading and site and services schemes throughout urban areas in Tunisia.
The director of the unit has been appointed and the qualifications of the
candidates for the other six positions have been agreed. The CPU would
prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports on the project,
including monitoring and evaluation results, and would make available to the
Bank the audited accounts and financial statements on the project prepared by
each implementing agency.
Cost Recovery and Interest Rates
59.       Project costs, including land acquisition, site preparation, on-site
infrastructure and buildings, design and supervision costs and interest during
construction, would be fully recovered in the Tunis upgrading and Sfax site
and services areas through plot charges. These charges in the site and
services areas would vary to reflect location, plot access and commercial
potential. Plot charges would be recovered in monthly installments at a
nominal interest rate of 6.5 percent over 20 years. Costs for infrastructure
improvement in the rbats in Sfax, where project beneficiaries already own the
land on which they live, would be recovered through an existing frontage tax
(contribution des riverains). The base on which this tax is calculated would
be modified for purposes of the project to reflect repayment of the present
value of the improvement works and to include administration costs and interest
during construction. These modifications would ensure recovery of allocable
costs at a nominal rate of 6.5 percent over 20 years. This tax would be made
effective by January 1, 1981 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.11 and Annex B
to Schedule 2). Plot charges and the frontage tax would be collected by the
Treasury department of each municipality and would be used to reimburse the
CPSCL.



- 19 -
60.        Interest rates currently charged for housing in Tunisia range from
3 percent for public sector housing finance to 8 percent for private housing
finance.  The current and projected inflation rate in the country is about 6
percent.  A 6.5 percent interest rate for the low-cost housing to be provided
under the project represents a substantial improvement in present policy in
Tunisia and is considered an important step in ensuring future replicability
of similar projects, the servicing of municipal debts and the growth of
CPSCL's special fund.
61.       Building materials loans for home improvements and construction
would be recovered by the municipalities at 6.5 percent over 10 years. Credit
to small businesses for workshop construction, equipment and working capital
would be recovered by STB at 8.25 percent over 3 to 8 years. Costs for the
solid waste collection and disposal component would be recovered through
increased receipts from the existing housing tax. The costs of community
facilities and of the traffic scheme in Sfax would not be recovered but
charged to the budgets of the Ministries concerned. The cost of off-site
infrastructure would be recovered through utility charges.
Affordability
62.       A substantial portion of Tunisia's urban poor could afford to
participate in the proposed project. Beneficiaries of squatter settlement
upgrading in Tunis and Sfax would be required to make monthly payments of
between 5 and 8 percent of their income for existing plots and between 15
and 22 percent for new infill plots. About one third of the population
affected by the project's upgrading program in Tunis, and about 42 percent
of that in the Sfax rbats, would fall below Tunisia's urban absolute poverty
level (estimated in 1978 at TD 45 or $107 equivalent per household per month).
The majority of beneficiaries of the site and services program in Sfax would
need to allocate only about 18 percent of their income for housing. The
minimum site and services plot option would be affordable to about 90 percent
of Sfax's urban population.
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       Contracts for civil works totalling $28.9 million and for equipment
and vehicles totalling $0.9 million would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
The civil works contracts for water, sewerage and electricity works, amounting
to $13.7 million, would be awarded by SONEDE, ONAS and STEG, respectively, the
national companies responsible for these utilities, in accordance with tech-
nical specifications to be outlined in separate protocols with the two Munic-
ipalities, to be signed by September 30, 1979. In the evaluation of bids,
local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for civil works
of $350,000 or less and for equipment and vehicles of $75,000 or less, for an
aggregate of $3.3 million, would be awarded through competitive bidding proce-
dures advertised locally and which are satisfactory to the Bank. Consultants
services amounting to $1.2 million would be procured individually by the agen-
cies responsible and awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.



- 20 -
64.       The project would be implemented over three and one-half years, with
disbursements expected through December 1983. The proposed loan would be dis-
bursed against: (i) 100 percent of foreign cost and of ex-factory cost for
equipment and vehicles; (ii) 45 percent of total cost for civil works and
building materials; (iii) 50 percent of disbursements for loans for workshop
construction and improvement, equipment and working capital; and (iv) 100
percent of foreign cost for consultant and advisory services. In addition,
the $250,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility (para 32) would be
reimbursed to the Bank under this loan.
Justification and Risks
65.       The proposed project would be the Government's first comprehensive
attempt to meet the needs of urban low-income groups with limited public sub-
sidy. It would help develop an institutional framework capable of carrying
on the planning and execution of similar future projects and would initiate
the decentralization of responsibility for the design and execution of urban
programs nationwide. Particularly important in this respect are: (i) the
low unit cost for site and services housing (20 to 25 percent of the cost of
conventional public housing in Tunisia); (ii) the introduction of an upgrad-
ing program for low income areas averaging only $1,278 per household; (iii)
the inclusion of job creation in upgrading and site and services programs;
(iv) the initiation of a solid waste collection and disposal program for
Greater Tunis; (v) the inclusion of low cost traffic improvements benefitting
and encouraging low cost transport modes; (vi) the establishment and strength-
ening of sector institutions to improve project implementation, monitoring
and evaluation and provide for the preparation of future similar projects
in Tunisia. Of the total population to benefit from the project, about 40
percent have incomes below the Bank defined urban absolute poverty threshold.
About 43 percent of project cost would reach this group.
66.       The economic rate of return of the upgrading and site and services
components together, which represent 65 percent of project cost, is about 28
percent: 34 and 18 percent respectively. Quantifiable benefits are based on
estimates of increases in imputed rental values for housing and market sale
prices for workshops plots. Rates of return were not calculated for the other
components because of difficulties in the measurement and quantification of
benefits. Some 940 jobs would be provided under the small business assistance
program in Tunis and Sfax. Average cost would be $4,150 per job, compared to
the 1977 Bank defined poverty capital/labor threshold for Tunisia of $10,890.
Annual savings of 16 percent are expected to be attained in the operating
costs of solid waste collection in the Tunis District, primarily through
better organization and management and improvements in equipment maintenance.
The project would improve environmental and health conditions.
67.       Technical risks associated with the project have been minimized
by careful selection of project areas and thorough preparation of project
components. The risks that can be identified are policy related. Since
the progress in implementation of this project will depend directly on the
Government's commitment to carry it out, a lessening of this commitment would
adversely affect the project. Risks that could then be envisioned include
inadequate budgetary allocations, non-enforcement of cost recovery procedures
in the project upgrading areas and the allocation to higher income groups of
site and services plots. These risks at present appear limited because of



- 21 -
the commitment of the central and municipal authorities to provide adequate
and affordable shelter to low-income populations and in view of the socio-
political will that exists at present for meeting the needs of the urban poor.
In addition, it is likely that beneficiaries will continue to be willing to
pay improvement costs as this will yield them security of tenure. Other risks
could relate to the relative complexity of the implementation organization
and the number of agencies involved.   However, the Government and the Bank
perceive the implementation apparatus proposed as the most likely to succeed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Municipalities
of Tunis and of Sfax, and the District of Tunis respectively, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Project Agreements conform
to the normal pattern for urban development projects. Features of special
interest are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report and in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (i) that
all action necessary to acquire land and rights to land in Jebel Lahmar, Saida
Manoubia and Cimer-Sud has been taken and such land and rights in respect of
land are available; (ii) signature of the subsidiary loan agreement and the
STB convention between the Government and CPSCL and STB, respectively; and
(iii) signature of the conventions and the CPSCL-BDET agreement between CPSCL
and the Municipality of Tunis, the Municipality of Sfax, and BDET, respec-
tively (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). Special conditions of disburse-
ment against related expenditures are:  (i) submission of evidence that all
action necessary to acquire land and rights to land in Cimer-Nord has been
taken and such land and rights in respect of land are available; and (ii)
creation of the regional authority(ies) to carry out part of the solid waste
disposal component, including any necessary amendments to the Project Agree-
ment with the District of Tunis (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
May 9, 1979
Washington, D.C.






-22-                                                          AN X
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZZT
REIERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERGES
TUNISIA                                                 A
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. kH.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTYHATE)
TOTAL            164.2                                                   SAHM        SAHE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      76.1                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOKE       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION  e  GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 220.0        360.0     860.0          1438.5       867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     190.0       261.0      447.0           816.7      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         4.0         5.0        5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 32.3         42.6      47.0            45.8        46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       25.0         30.0      36.0            23.2       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     54.0         67.0      78.0           112.4       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4         45.5      43.1            46.0       42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        50.5       52.7            50.6       53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   5.0          4.0       4.2             3.3         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 |f       2.3 Lf    2.3 Lf          2.9         2.5         1.6
URBAN                                           3.0 I     4.7             5.0         4.7         3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.6         44.7      40.0            45.0        37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.5         16.9      13.8             13.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION BATE              3.1          3.4       3.0              3.4        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        29.2      58.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      13.7             14.7       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            124.8        100.0     128.2            107.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.0         93.0     102.0            99.2       105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0         63.0 /h   67.4            63.4        63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0        14.0 /h   20.0             16.4       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..         1.5 /i    ..                *-        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1         51.6      54.1            53.7        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..        125.0      62.6 .          77.7        53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         49.0        ..            59.1        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                ..        92.0      93.0            85.9        79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..         17.0        ..             38.0       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         62.0        ..            64.3        30.9        70.3
'"RBAN                                        100.0                      94.5        45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..         34.0        ..             27.7       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0       5950.0    4620.0          4271.6      2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       730.0     670.0 /k       2077.4      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0 /I    410.0      410.0 1k..      580.2       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                *-       280.0     230.0 1k..       310.0      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..        930.0    1040.0  k            ..     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        24.1         .             22.0       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1 Li    6.0              5.4        5.2         3.9
URBAN                               ..          5.1 Li    5.8               ..        5.0
RURAL                               ..          5.1 L     6.1               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         3.2 /i     ..               ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                                ..         2.7 /i     ..              1.8        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..          3.6 7i     ..               ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         24.0 /i     ..             40.3       64.1        59.2
URBAN                                 .          ..        ..               ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             12.2       34.1        12.5



-23-                                                 ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TUNISIA                        - HOST RECENT ESTDIATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
*MOST RECENT     GEOGAPHIC   INCOME         INCOPM
1960  b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION  C   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  66.0       100.0      95.0             80.8        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               43.0         79.0      75.0            61.8         93.3       87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  12.0        23.0      20.0             23.6        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                6.0         13.0      13.0             18.2        29.8       42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0         12.0      17.0              6.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0         48.0      40.0             31.5        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                          16.0        28.0      23.0             22.3        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5        24.0 L i     .             50.1         71.8       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        13.0      18.0             14.5        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         41.0        77.0      49.0            125.8       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         10.0      27.0             34.5        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0        16.0      28.0             17.4        45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       2.3              1.6         4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1400.0      1300.0 /i 1880.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.1         7.7       8.5              9.3        25.7        17.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              69.0        57.0 Li   37.4             42.0        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.6         21.0        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0        23.7      23.7             26.9        33.8        33.7
MALE                                 50.2        44.2      44.0             46.6        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                                3.3         3.6       4.0              5.3         17.3       12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.8 /i    1.4              1.9         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      17.0               ..        23.6        20.2
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      42.0               *-        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF OOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       6.0               ..         4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      15.0               ..        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     198.0               ..       191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      94.0            142.0       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     500.0            236.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..           144.7       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      20.0             21.5        19.8        23.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      15.0             37.4        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
valve. of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moot Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   Le  Upper Middle
Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /&  1956-66;   /h  Av. 1964-66;   /i  1966;   /i  Registered only;   /k  1972; L   1962;
/m Government hospital establishments only.
September, 1978



-24-                                                                           AMIX  I
Page 3 of 5
S6PINITfIOS Of SOCIAL INDICATORS
U"A:x The adjusted group averages for each indicator ara population-weighted geometric mciken, excluding the extrome values of the indicator and the most
pop.l.t.d  -.untr/ In each group.  Coverage of countries amon% the indicstors depends on availablity of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of date,
ornul everoc,,  ..-apitol S.rph.. (PitI Eor'a nd indicator. of acc.sa to water and excrete disposal, housing, income diatribution end poverty aer
ImpI. p.p.lulIcr-' II,td gootl I, ,      It.,   l tiuL the  -ucL.i,ncn of eKtremae values..
Mlal AREA  thi.--od .,q. kos)                                                               PgeInPer hospital bed - total. urban, cod rural - Population (total,
Total - T'tota  aurface ar.. reprialng land ur.a  nd Inland wrat.r..                         urban, and rural) divided by thair respective number of hospital beds
4aiutrl- most recant eatujate of agriculturel area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and aperialdxed hoapital end ra-
or per,manently for crops, Pacturea, earket and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are aetablishmota perumanetly saftefd by
lie fallow,                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
cart are not included. Rural hospitala, however, include hatith and medl-
C.RP PfR CApI'i'l  (ill) - lON' 1,r cupltn estimaces at current market Prices,                cal center. not Permanently ataffed by a physician (but by a medico) Ce-
-.,I,-uiut,:d by ,u-a     --,.oro,n --rtl,d -n W-rld lonk Acl.. (l975-77 baain);           aistaoc, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patciatl accomeodation and
191,0, 1970J, .o] I'9l7 d,lt,,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilitias.
Admissions per hospital bed - Totel number of admissions to or discharges
tlIERi,Y COgfSiNFTIO1 PtER CAlITA - Annual conoseption of commercial energy                   from  hoepitals divided by the number of beda.
(coal and lignite. petroleun. natural ges and hydro-, nuclear And geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (preracs per bousehold) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION ANDt VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household conistsc of a group of individuals who shore living quarters
'lotal population, mid-yer (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      end their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-yea..r eatimtca  1960. 1970. and 1977 date,                             the household for statiatical purpoata.  Statistical definitions of houaa-
Ujrban population (percent nf total) - Ratio of urban to total popule-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of arban areasa may affect comparability                    AveroSe numbr :fofpracss tar room - total, urban. and rural - Average Ouu-
of data awnon  countries,                                                                  her of peen  pr room In all, urban, ed rural occupied conventioaml
Population density                                                                           dwellings, reapectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permnaent structure  ancd
Faer  asq. kh. - Hid-year population Per squat. kilometer (100 hectare.)                    unoccupied parte.
of total area.                                                                          Accesa to electricity (percent of dwellio&m) - total, urban. and rural -
Par sq. km. agriculture lard - Conpoted ae above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living; quartera  as perceantage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellinSs respectively.
population cue structuro_(pe_rcen_-t)_ - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 year. and over) as pe,rc..nragea of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adlusted enrollment ratios
Popul.ti.. growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female, - Total and femala enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total end urban mid-year populationo  for 1950-60.                         at the Primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populationa; normally  tincludes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crud, birth rato  (Par thoue...d) - Annual live hirthu per thouoand of                       different lengtha of primary education; for coun,trina with unvra   do-
mid-yeer population; ten-year oritheetic average. ending in 1960 end                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent aince aoma pupils are below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per tboueand) - Annual deatha per thouaand of nid-                       Secondary school - total, and fmemle - Computed an above; secondary sduca-
year population; ton-yaar arithmetic ave.agea ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at leaset four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             videe general vocational, or teacher training Instructions for pupils
Grosa reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will hear                      venally of 12 to 17 yeara of age; correspondence courase are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences proeenL age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960.                    Vocational enrollment (percent of seconLdary) - Vocational institutione  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical,.industrial, or other programas which operate independantly
Family planning - acceptors, annal (thousands) - Annual number of                            or as departmenta of sacondery institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devic.. under aua pics  of rational family                  Puoil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total etudenta enrolled in
planning program                                                                           Primary and secondary levela divided by numbera of teachera in the corr.-
Family planning - usera (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           epondiog levels.
married woaen of child-hearing age (15-i4 year.) who uae birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adulta  (able to read  nd write) a.
devices . o al  married  onnin name age group,                                             ae percentage of total adult population aged 15 years an  oer
P0OD AND NUtRITIONh                                                                       CONISUMPTION
Index of fond production per capita (1970'.100) - laden number of per                    Passenger care (per thomaand population) - Passenger care comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food cosmoditiea.                                       seating loes  then eight persons; excludes mabulances, hoarsee and military
Per capita supply of calories (Percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thougand population) - All types ef r"eivers for radio
per day.  Available aupplics comprise domeatic production, Importe leas                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population, excludes unlicensed
exports, and changee in stock.  Net supplies exclude anima  feed, seeds,                recei~vers In countries and In years when registration of radio sets ..e in
quantitiee used in food procesaing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    affect; data for recent years may not he comparable aince moat countries
quire..nenc  ware estimated by FAO basad on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
ma1 acti~vity and health coneidering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (par thousand population) - TV rceaivera for broadcast to gard,c
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 par-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicnened TV receiver, in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tri..aend in years when registration of TV aets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protei,na(grans ,per day) - Protein content of Per                  hiwpprcruaion (per thousand populPatIon) - Shows the average ciccula-
capita noar supply  ffo  pydy   Her supply of food is defined as                            on, of "dily genraorl interest n  eapr,defined aa a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is conaidered to
a minimum, allowance of 60 gram  of total protein per day and 20 graxo                     be "daily" If it appears at lteast four tieca a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gram.snhuuld be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance Par capita por yeer - Based on the number of tickets
Th... standards are lower than thoae of 75 gram. of total protein and                      sold during the year, including adalasions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 gram. of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
TAO in the Third World Food S.rvey.
Per capita Protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYT4ENT
derived from animal. and pulses In grans per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons. including armed
Child (aese 1-4) mortalitv rate (Per thousand) - Annual deatha per thoua-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, studenta, etc.  Defini-
and In age group 1-4 years. to children in this age group.                                 tion. in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as Percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting end fiahing
Life expectancy at birth (yearo) - Average number of yearo rf life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                    Industry (percent) - Labor force. in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  e1acteicity, warer cad geas as percen.tage of total labor force.
infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of intfant. under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and fmale - Total, male, and
one year of age par thousand live birhto.                                                  female labor force as percentage. of their r*apective populations..
Access tO safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, sod rural -                     Thoea  are 01.0. adjuatred participation rat.esreflectingal-x
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       structure of the Population, snd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Eic.nomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 6) and over to
uncontaminated water such aa thst from protected boreholes, springa,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitatry wells) a. percentage, of their respective population..
In an urban area a public fountain or stendposc located not more                       INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 mater. from a houee may be considered as being within res-                     Percent.ag  of private inkcome (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable a.ccess of that house.  In rural area, reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 Percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of ho.aaholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day ir fetching tho family's
water needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accesa to excreta disposal (percent of popultion) -total. urban, and                      Estimated absolute poverty inccome level (USS per capita) - urban and rucal -
rural - Number of people (total, urban , and rural) served by excrete                        Abanlute poverty income level is that inooae level belo- which a minimal
dispoa  as I.  percentages of their reapentivo populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plua essential non-food requiremeants is not
disposal may include the collection and dinposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human encreta and waste-water by water-borne syst...                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and  imitac installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level lose than -one-thi-rd
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita p.erona1 inc.om  of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Eatieated population below  poverty income level (Percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nureini person - Populatior divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicina main and fema.e gruSduate en.pratical  -orne, aod                               r,elative poor" whiChever is greeter.
assistant nurn...



TUNIISIA - E41913*U04IC 79VEWP.0899, 8.IA ShiftT
0..UoOI    8.,.                                   P,09o..U.d  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 996670             997173             9977-31                             99797  70191-7  177-1  91
___________    ________             ~~~~~~~1965        970              1  5997 7                        -1 978                             999              99 1                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MUn,,, 9111,o. U, Ca..06-0  1977  fti...                                                                            A..Ir. A-oI C.ovth 5.'.
Cr-..  Uo     i..7   P-d-9O                         65                61'.            1,796                   1.465                    t.b00             1,772             1.976                         4.7                 9.3                7.0                             900.0
Ca.,.   ro  Ta.,-  *1 90-.9                          -6                72                53                      '.9                       5U               48                66                                                                                                   3.3
4,0.. U000.9(U  lfl~~~~~~.,..., ~650                     922            1.339                    9,595                    1.650             1,7808            2^0                           496               983                  7.3                             103.5
100or90  (C 000 995)          179              771              ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~       ~ ~~~301.  495  52I  52 5  569                  4.3               91.7                5.5                               53.
Eopor6*: IC :.Id SU~ IS)lPo.cop.c-16)               90.15             999 1             373                     377                       391              418)              497                        I9.7               12.7                 8~.                               235.4
R--- ---U  GoP                                       74                39                59                      123                      9361             II,                60                                              .                  -
C0n...OrOloo                          ~~~~              ~~~~           ~~~~~549  696  1.961      L.764                    1,389             14608             1,70                          4.9                88885.
lno.U.,162                                                            964               330                     378                      406               415               4802                        9.                 5.                   .92.
80296                    I'78                     255                       277              300               338                          7.4.              17.1                4.3                               17.0
0.Ita... I071                                                         104              274                      2681                      269              :86               316                          9.2              29.4                 6.9                               90.9
488 .6680   f9..9.~  160$   U160ta                104               1.444            4,324                    3.035                    5.809             6.668             9.570                          7.5               25.0               13.5
B.  SECTOR OUT 9I7                                                             Sh.08. I90D 9718 C00...'    92 P.1m o. 9* . i,B&                                                                                    A-r A    A0~0.,~I 06,016 886
BE681f.8                                           22.1              20.4             29.                      IR.5                     la.)              13.4              17.7                           -                to.,                3.3
EI,:, I'll                                        27 0              24.              25.4                      257                      26.0             26.0              27.                           6. I819.
SeroUco.                             ~~~~~             ~~~~~            ~~~         ~~55.9  34.  53.6  S5.8                  5.55.6                            54.                           5.S2.                                  .
C.  9E8C9968IS0 TRADE6                                                                  9999I9o- *  t90 D.11... ft--No  .8100...98..0N8  081 . 88
OUlv  Oil                                            26                 77                                        60                       77                77               85                        -9.0               36.
CrdI   .r9o.                                         -                4                3973                                              636               8                5600.301.7
R.!9.82 P,.6.0..                                     -                  5                95                       93                       14                95               96                           .3.0                                 6.
Ph. .p6~ _R86                                        22                24              995                       49                        55               63               L03                         1.?               37.0               96.6
Sopo   99.o.ph-.                                     is                I?               42                       46                        68                S2               79                         -9.2              26.0                21.9
76.M  oi L.  U9d                                     -                 -                 38,                     49                        92               53                7I                          ...                                   0.7
A8rUoI d.0116 ,08.                           39                40                92                       87                       97               909              876                          6.                18.1                7.4.
T.  fILL.                                             2                  2               Ss                     166                       930              207               299                           -               93 .0               26.3
To,.1 Good.                                         121                U8              859                      939                    9,z3              I,20              6, "93.                                         33.5                19.9
F--8,  S.8-6-..                                 68               533               497                                             ,,j 64           ...0!               978                         -014                  1               ILA
209-9 KoPO..                                la9               390            9.33,                    9,322                    9.799             9,901            2,571                          6.2               40.0                14.0
80043t0ff.                                           36                a0              2z5                      296                      265               269               274                        98.7               23.0                 I..
066.8 COO-o  Cond.                                   62                49              29E                       397                      355              385               507                         -0.3              40.0                92.9
8,o_;TC                                              19                97              940                      190                      323               217              918                          3.4               60.0              -63.9
loo.t.di.i. 40*4*                                                    ILL               41t                      552                      639               631               I6 .9                                         29.                 13.7
00,89     d                                       ....             ...73)              430                    ...j, j7j                                    Z6                838                          I.                                   IAl
To9.  Gd.                                           292               320            1.424                    1.814                    2.070             2,208             2.607                         4.8                5s.$               35.3
09608NF                                           __95  .LL 66                         169                     211                        217              22?               297                        :.LI               31Ilu
T- I89Good. .68 N8S                                 320               381,56S                                 2.020                    2.287             2.639             2,906                         3.6               3119.7
U.  !R9CCO                                                                                                            12__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _9 72  t 0                                                      0  88.   A o  1  89 8 6  8 3
E.po,t p,0c. i.d..                                 795              39.7             194.9                    202.3                    209.8             298.7            248.5                          3                 I.5  963              .9
9008pl.  d.8.                                                       90.7             96.                      67S.7                    933.9            99.               29.                             .1                2.6                  .3
7.8.. 09 UrOd. 9,9..  08.0            98.9             990.8                    993.1                    994.6             993.2             115.2                         2.4                3.7                 9.21151  14.11  -  2.4  .7  .
COPd.99f                                           70.              92.I15.                                   64.                       5.                65.2             185.0                          5.4                .06.1
A089.0600    06   D1 08  )8525                                        0.323            0.4*02                   0.429                    6.29042 29                              9                         -7.-
I.  'PUBLIC H999S                                           I.o. .n...   9 40D  0  Co-rront  ic..                                      F.  DETAIL6 UN 68997                    9, P.r-.  f9 T.Wo
19965      1970l       9975        9976        1277                                  SECT9OR 9999"T"'819              1972-74           99L_-7_77
Coo88-1 R......  (G.nO. I.  Co-.)                 99.6       29.8        28.         2.          9.
Cn,,ooft E.p..d06o9   (C ... .1 G-nU.3            I 95.      97.         29.         21.         23300.                                                                       4             97.77
.....0. S-8plo,                                   4.6         3.9         7.5         7.4'       6.8.                                  89098                                .                 .
rolr*IC...06.7fl08,9.oOU            ~~~         ~~7 .5  3.9  4.1        4 7         1.7                                      Co9.U0                           3.2               7.4
T0U960-I      l~o1.n   21                        9117         8.L99                  9.          97.9                                  9nfEr.trofI                         6.2               5.9
Of6.-  2/                          5f                62.2
C.  OET1991 00-.19986       U60976                                  9. 8,.009.. Lh3L.                                                      70.9.                              900.0             900.0
fdo~~~~~~.U,o,, ~~~~~~~25.7                      32,6       227.        7C.3        29.3                                  jj999199
066.8  S.        -vI 0r1..                        93         16.?        9.           39         9.
S08c,l8r8.                                            3:, 4       n          7.          5.                                   E6 1- S1-n  5-o9n.                  59.2             50I3
46h.  Ic.o1  SOl                                   7.7       93.7        16.2        94.5        97.2                                 09.6.t.l                            16.o982.m4        26.5
A0,1,899..d 0  UrU....                            36.1       30.9         3.0        38.        40.9O..I    0808    o,                                                     637.
900.0      900.0       900.0       900991      79067                                  F...96,'.00--73  99.89)            77.9             291 6
T0.I9 89n...r..                   9 00.8            9901.0
M.   9.A6,9  8198SE 994o..09..           1977              9977
6Or900IUSo.  31           ~~~~577           531
9.ldo.6,o                 31.~     ~      ~~~4 462
Sorvic..                  6~~       ~      ~~~06  67
Un.~~~~9,,,o9  ~ ~   ~      7)              249
9,459            9.727
Fr,, .~~~~~~~~~~~9.7  I., 4,997  boA  Stall ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ 17



ANNEX I
TUNISIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                                                Page 5 of 5 pages
(Aosunts in milltons of US dollar.) I/
Actual                                            Est.                          Projected 2/
1970       1971        1972       1973        1974        1975       1976        1977       1978        1979        1980       1981        1986
A. SUNMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
E.ports (in,m. NFS)                                   316         408        567         714       1,254      1.356       1,309      1,522       1,719       1,901      2,206       2,571       4,821
Ilports (in,]. NFS)                                   381       _42          593         782       1242       1,565       1,669      2.026       2.287      2.435       2,659       2 904       4.967
Resource Balance                                      -65         -34         -26        -68          12       -209        -360        -504       -568        -534        -453       -333        -146
Net Interest Payments                                 -50         -18         -18        -13           2          -5        -42         -57        -75        -IOnD       -125       -147        -240
of .i,ch:  Intere-t on Public Loans               (-17)      (-20)       (-22)      (-27)       (-31)       (-37)      (-39)       (-53)       (-68)      (-95)      (-122)      (-147)     (-275)
Direct lveut-eCW    Income                            -9         -10        -25         -35         -36        -37         -26         -21        -40         -60         -82        -93        -188
WorkerS' Re.ittran.e.                                   29         44          62         98         119         146        143         168        210         236         264         295        521
Other Net Factor Services                               -8        -39         -41        -82        -103       -116        -127        -117       -129        -142        -156       -172        -276
Current Transfers (net)                                 10         16           6          4           1          -3         -1          -1           2          4           7           7           7
Balancr on .  orrent Account                          -93         -41         -42        -96          -5       -224        -412         533       -600        -597       -545        -443        -323
Private Direct Investment                               19         24          31         5/          49         48          63          75         86         110         121         133        267
official Capital Grants                                43          35          37         45          43          50         45          45         40          40          40          38         30
Poblic M a LT loans:
Disbur.e.eo t.                                      82         107        140         153         174        211         327        440         632        612         610         550         695
- As.ortization                                       -45         -49        -70         -59         -59        -66         -65       _t33        -109        -123       __w         --3         _530
Net Disboreements                                   37          58         70          94        115         145         262        357         523        489         444         357         165
Crpital Tra.sections n.e.i. 3/                          13         24        -19          -8         -99        -62          -3          --         --          --          --          --         --
Change in Net Resees (increases - -)                  -19        -100        -77         -92        -103         43          43          57        -50         -43         -60         -85       -140
Net Foreign Reserveo                                    15        115         192        284         387        344         J05         248        297         340        400         485        1242
(months of imports equva-lent)                       0.5        3.1         3.9         4.4        3.7         2.6         2.2        1.5         1.6         1.7        1.8         2.0         3.0
B. PUBI.C LOAN COMMITllrlTtS                                                                                                                                                          Act.al Debt OutstandinL  on l)ec. 31/7
IBR0                                                   --          37         36          25          64         37          60          80                                            Disb. Only    In Percent of Total
IDA                                                    10          10          10          7          --         --           5          --       EXTERNAL DEBT
other Multilateral                                     --          --           I         --          12          11         96          6f       World Bank                               127.9                IO.I
Governments                                           100          84         106        138          79        289         446         125       IDA                                       64.1                  5.0
Suppliers                                                8          5           7         12           2         27           8          54       Other Multilateral                        22.8                  1.8
Financial Instlitutions                                21          28         28          17        -12          20          19         -11       Governments                              796.1                62.5
Total Pobli, M + LT L.oans                            139         164         188        199         169        384         634         256       Suppliers                                 89.3                  7.0
Financial institutions                    99.3                 7.8
Bonds                                     50.4                 4.01
Public eftbt nei.23.0                                          1.8
Total Puiblic 9 + LT Debt              1,272.9               1110. 0
D. DEBT AND DEBT  ERV1CE
PUblic Debt Outst. f [lsLurued                        524         604        680         807         954      1,071       1,273      1,630
Interest on Plubli,  De.I                           17         20          22         27          31          37         39          53
Amorticatios                                        45         49          70          59          59         66          65         83
Total Public Debt Service                           62          69         92          86         90         !03         104        136
Burden on Esport Ear-ing, 4/ (%)
PoSbl,. Debt Serv-ce                                19.6        16.7       16.2        12.0         7.2        7.6         8.0        8.9
TlS + Ili-eor Invert. Inc.                          22.5        19.1       20.6        16.9        10.0       10.3        10.0        10.3
Avcrage Terms ot Public Debt
Int. dS 7. uf Priur Year D0 + D                      3.3         3.8        3.6         4.(1        3.8        3.9         3.6        4.2
Ac.-rt. ou /. P-or Year Dl) c U                      9.5         9.1       11.6         8.7         7,3        6.9         6.1         b.6
1BRD DebL Oct. F Disbur-ed                             26          39         S2          70          89        110         128        159
IBRD as 7i .f Poblc Debt                                 5.0        6.5         7.6        8.7         9.3       10.3       1i.2          9.7
IBRD1 0. V/. 2f Public D.bc Srvi-e                      4.2         5.3         6.5        9.4        12.0       13.3        15.8        13.3
IDA Deft (lcr. and 1)islo,red                          lb          21         28          57          43         55          64         69
IDA os X ui PublI, Debt                                 3.1         3.5        4.1        4.6          4 5         5.1       5.1          4.2
IDA as If P.l Ilc Debt Se-v,-,                          0.1         0.2         1.3        0.4         0,4        0.4         0.S        0.5
11 tcul-OO6e faIrs used  or the various sLucks and IlIws cor-c-pond to tLI-5  pu mls,ed in IFS.
2! Peojctcd by World bh..  Staff.                                                                                                                                                                                   19t7l,er 197
3! leudlnl. efroca  jud umssiosS.
4/ Inchel cog cu,r- factor scrolces.



ANNEU II
Page 1 of 7
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                                                                         US $ Million
Credit                                                                                                   Amount (Less Cancellation)
Number      Year      Borrower                                  Purpose                                  Bank        IDA       Undis,
Twenty-two Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                             126.0       58.5
238         1971      Republic of Tunisia                       Population                                            4.8         2.1
270         1971      Republic of Tunisia                       Fisheries                                             2.0         0.2
858         1972      Republic of Tunisia                       Tourism Infrastructure                    14.0                    7.0
881         1973      SocietE Nationale d'Investissement        Development Finance Co.                   14.0                    0.6
937         1973      Republic of Tunisia                       Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                          11.0                   1.8
989         1974      SONEDE                                    Water Supply                              23.0                    2.5
1029         1974      Republic of Tunisia                       Hotel Training                             5.6                    3.3
1042         1974      Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA                 Phosphate Development                     23.3                    6.8
1068         1974      Republic of Tunisia                       Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.2                    6.6
1088         1975      Republic of Tunisia                       Urban Sewerage                            28.0                   22.7
1155         1975      Republic of Tunisia                       Education                                  8.9                    8.9
1188         1976      Republic of Tunisia                       Highways                                  28.0                   27.5
1189         1976      Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)           Development Finance Co.                   20.0                    2.7
238-1       1976      Republic of Tunisia                       Population                                            4.8         1.1
1340         1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie               Agricultural Credit                       12.0                    9.1
1355         1976      SociEtE Tunisienne de
1'Electricite et du Gaz                Power                                     14.5                    1.4
1431         1977      Republic of Tunisia                       Irrigation Development                    42.0                   33.6
1445         1977      SONEDE                                    Water Supply                              21.0                  20.4
1504         1977      BDET                                      Development Finance Co.                   30.0                   25.0
1505         1977      Republic of Tunisia                       Small-scale Industrial Project             5.0                    5.0
1601         1978      Republic of Tunisia                       Rural Roads                               32.0                   32.0
1675         1979      Republic of Tunisia                       Second Urban Sewerage                     26.5                   26.5
TOTAL                                                                                                497.0       70.1      246.8
Of which has been repaid                                  ..                                        48.3        4.5
Total now outstanding                                                                                448.7       65.6
Amount Sold                     14.3
Of which has been repaid         4.2                                                                10.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              ..                                      438.6        65.6
Total Undisbursed                                                                                    263.4        3.4      246.8
a/ Not yet effective.             b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1979)
Amount in US $ Million
Year       Obligor                                             Type of Business                         Loan        Equity    Total
1962       NPK Engrais                                         Fertilizers                                2.0        1.5         3.5
1966       $ecift& Nationale d'Investissement                  Development Finance Co.                               0.6         0.6
1969       COFIT (Tourism)                                     Development Finance Co.                    8.0        2.2        10.2
1970       SociEte Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                               Development Finance Co.                                0.6        0.6
1973       SociEte Touristique & H8teliere RYM SA.             Tourism                                    1.6        0.3         1.9
1973       SocietE d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                     Tourism                                    --         0.0         0.0
1975       SociEt6 d'Etude & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                     Tourism                                    2.5        0.6         3.1
1974       Industries Chimiques du Fluor                       Chemicals                                             0.7         0.7
1978       bDET                                                Development Finance Co.                               1.3         1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                                              14.1        7.8       21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                                    4.6        1.6         6.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                                      3.                  15.7
Total undisbursed                           ..                                                            --         0.7         0.7



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
Cr. 238-1:  Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Under the Government's new decentralized and integrated health
policy, the national family planning program continues to show good progress.
The last of the 29 MCH clinics are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
Three of the four maternity hospitals are close to completion, and the fourth,
at Bizerte, is scheduled for completion late this calendar year. Bids have
been invited for the procurement of furniture and equipment. The Avicenne
training school is completed, equipped, and functioning. Because of delays
encountered in construction, the closing date of the project has been extended
to December 31, 1979.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) September 30, 1979.
All the 190 boats ordered have been constructed. About 96 percent
of the Credit funds is disbursed, the balance is committed. The remainder
of the credit will be used to finance fishing gear, and it is estimated
that project completion can be achieved by June 30, 1979. However, the
recovery of loans provided under the project to the fisher-men remains a
matter of concern as the recovery rate has been low and measures to improve
the situation were taken only recently. BNT has recruited seven recovery
agents in its branches along the coast whose main task is the collection
of installments in the places where fishermen land and sell their catch.
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan  of September 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. Project
works are about three-quarters completed; the remainder is expected to be
completed by end 1979/early 1980. Total project cost, including price esca-
lation allowances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the total Bank
financing of $24 million (including the fully disbursed Credit 329), 70 per-
cent, or $17 million, has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Ln. 881: Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: (original) March 31, 1978 ; (Current) June 30, 1979.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The closing date of Loan 881 has been postponed to June 1979 to
permit BDET to disburse the last $0.6 million in the Loan account toward a
few subprojects which encountered implementation delays. The utilization of
the loan has been generally in line with the appraisal report's projections,
which foresaw the loan to be fully disbursed by March 1977. Disbursement
on Loan 1189, which is also fully committed, reached $17.3 million in April
1979, about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in the appraisal report.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in the key
areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial practices and
resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly important role
in financing industrial development, extending about one-third of all term
credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Ln. 937: Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432: million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
The major part of the project has been implemented and most of the
objectives have been met.  The project helped establish and strengthen the
Tunis District, the first regional planning authority in Tunisia. Work
carried out by the District in the housing and transport sectors has been
instrumental in bringing about substantial changes in public programs and
policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage the use of buses and
restrain the use of private cars.  The project also assisted the public
transport company Societe Nationale de Transport (SNT) in renewing its bus
fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization and finance,
and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construction of a new
bus depot. In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with
a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking zones,
which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in Greater
Tunis. This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet and improved bus
maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport facilities
by about 27 percent above the level which would have been achieved in the
absence of the project. The construction of the last project component, a
bus depot, is now scheduled to start in May-June 1979.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln 989: Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: Devember
31, 1982.
Most of the civil works programmed under the third project are
now completed. The project is expected to be fully completed by December
1979, about one year behind the appraisal schedule. Preliminary financial
results as of December 31, 1978 indicate that SONEDE has met the rate of
return covenants and debt service requirements for 1978. The proportion of
cash in SONEDE's current assets of 2.4 percent in 1978 is considered low.
However, it is expected that from 1979 onwards, due to tariff increases and
other contributions, cash will gradually increase to an adequate level. As
far as current assets are concerned, SONEDE agreed that attention would
continue to be given to inventory management in order to reduce stocks to a
more appropriate level.  Good progress has been accomplished in the execution
of the works included in the Fourth Water Supply Project. Final engineering
design of the project components, with the exception of the water treatment
plant, is completed, and laying out of the project facilities and soil tests
are under way. It is now expected that, except for the treatment plant,
procurement under the project should be completed by mid-1979.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1979.
Civil works for the first two centers started in July 1977 and are
now expected to be completed by July 1979. Revised cost estimates indicate a
project cost of about $17.8 million, 45 percent higher than the appraisal
estimate. ONTT has proposed that the third center be deleted from the project
and that residual funds (US$1 million) be applied to the first two centers.
This proposal is being evaluated in the Bank.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib beneficiation plant to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1979. Following the failure of the related tests to
reach satisfactory production levels a partial reformulation of the project
will be carried out with the assistance of experienced consultants whose
services will be financed by the unused portion of the Bank loan. The ser-
vices will include (i) a 9 months assistance in further testing the longwall
method, (ii) a feasibility study for open pit mining of an adjacent deposit,
and (iii) a review of the Gafsa company's five-year investment program with a
view to designing and implementing an improved cost control system. In the
next 5 to 6 years the beneficiation plant will be supplied with ore mined at a
small deposit nearby until a new and bigger deposit is ready for operations.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation work in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regarding
the latter's contribution to the investment costs. Some progress has been
made since May 1978 in enforcing the Agrarian Reform Legislation. OMVVM
continues to encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land and marked
progress has been reported in the distribution of medium- and short-term
credit. In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing well and
farmers have been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area. Progress
in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks
continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date
December 15, 1979.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation has occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, bids for most of the works have now been received and construction is
under way on all major components. The project is expected to be completed in
mid-1982. One of its major benefits will be release of land for development
around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible because of the
pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewage. Consultants financed under
the project have produced a land-use plan for the area, and Government has
begun to acquire land.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date (Original
Project: June 30, 1980 (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Following a change in the educational priorities in Tunisia, the
Government and the Bank have recently agreed to reformulate the project. The
proposed amendment to the project was approved by the Executive Directors in
March 1979 on a no-objection basis. The objectives of the original project
have been maintained and the modifications relate mainly to a decrease in the
number of ITM centers to be built under the project, an increase in facilities
to train teachers for ITM and an increase in the amount of the loan allocated
for technical assistance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated
at $11.3 million and the Bank loan is decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 mil-
lion, representing the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are behind
schedule although quality of works is generally satisfactory. Construction is
in progress on Lot 6; alternative bypasses of Nabeul, Hammamet and Korba are
under study by the Sous-Direction des Etudes. Construction works of Lots 5, 7
and 11 have not started yet due to lack of local financing and, in the case of
Sfax bypass, problems with expropriation. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and Planning and a satisfactory
solution is expected shortly. The draft final report of the transport coordi-
nation study is behind schedule, since the Government is still discussing some
of the initial recommendations with the consultants.
Ln 1340: Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 28 percent of the amount envisaged at loan signature was dis-
bursed by the end of March 1979. The appraisal of subloans for small farmers
is now progressing and BNT has made the first disbursements. The funds ear-
marked for SONAM are fully disbursed and prospects are good for the commitment
of funds for service cooperatives to small and medium size farms.  Commitments
of funds made by BNT under categories 2 and 4 are progressing satisfactorily
but due to cumbersome administrative procedures and other technical problems,
subloan applications of SCMVS under category 3 have been delayed. To overcome
these difficulties, BNT and the Ministry of Agriculture have proposed new
procedures, and BNT is expected soon to notify the Bank officially of the new
standard loan conditions.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been almost completed, and is largely on schedule in
spite of some mechanical problems with three of the seven gas-turbine units.
The consultants for the price study are being selected and the study is
expected to commence shortly, after some delay.
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. However, construction of the two diversion tunnels is about
three months behind original schedule. Accelerated efforts are needed to
complete construction of both tunnels and cofferdam by the end of September
1979. Progress in implementation of the railroad substructure is also
slightly behind schedule. The land reform and consolidation program has
been developing on schedule.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness, and $5.0 million have been
disbursed as of April, 1979, in line with appraisal estimates. Under the proj-
ect, BDET is giving priority in its financing to projects which are located in
the least developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by
high labor intensity or export-orientation. No commitments have been made
yet under the SSI pilot project, although a number of suitable projects are
in the pipeline. Commitments and disbursements should soon build up as well
under the loan to the Government. The commercial banks' initial reluctance to
utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome. Considerable progress
has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network of
Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The loan has only recently become effective mainly because of delays
in finalizing the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and BNT. This
has, however, not held up project implementation. Preparation of project
works in the first two of the provinces to be covered under the project is
progressing satisfactorily.



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Tunisia
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to               Four years
prepare the project:                    (November 1974 - October 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:    Government, District of Tunis,
Consultants
(c)  Project first identified by Bank:          May-June 1974
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:            October/November 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   April 20, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             October 15, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.         During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  families displaced as a result of upgrading schemes would be com-
pensated and relocated in the same area by the municipalities
(para. 38);
(ii) beneficiaries under the project would be selected on the basis of
agreed criteria including level of income, need and willingness to
accept the downpayment and monthly payment requirements (para. 40);
(iii) the surplus generated by the Caisse de Prets et de Soutien des
Collectivites Locales (CPSCL) under the project would be used to
finance similar projects in future (para. 51);
(iv) the small business assistance component would be implemented in
accordance with agreed administrative procedures and selection
criteria, and the National Employment Office (OTTEEFP) would be
staffed with sufficient and qualified personnel to carry out the
project (para. 54);



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v) the Tunis District will hire a waste collection expert and two
assistants by September 30, 1979, and a waste treatment expert with-
in three months after the creation of the regional authority(ies).
This regional authority(ies) would be established no later than
June 30, 1980 to complete the implementation of the solid waste
collection and disposal component (para 55); and
(vi) the terms and conditions of cost recovery through plot charges for
upgrading in Tunis and the site and services areas in Sfax, and
through collection of the frontage tax (contribution des riverains)
in the rbats in Sfax would be those agreed (para. 59).
2.        Special conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) that all action necessary to acquire land and rights to land in
Jebel Lahmar, Saida Manoubia and Cimer-Sud has been taken and such
land and rights in respect of land are available (para. 40);
(ii) signature of the subsidiary loan agreement and the STB convention
between the Government and, respectively, CPSCL and Societe
Tunisienne de Banque (STB) (paras. 51 and 54); and
(iii) signature of the conventions and the CPSCL-BDET agreement between
CPSCL and the Municipality of Tunis, the Municipalitiy of Sfax, and
BDET, respectively (paras. 51 and 57).
3.        Special conditions of disbursement include:
(i) submission of evidence that all action necessary to acquire land
and rights to land in Cimer-Nord has been taken and such land and
rights in respect of land are available (para 40); and
(ii) creation of the regional authority(ies) to carry out part of the
solid waste disposal component in Greater Tunis, and introduction
of any necessary amendment(s) to the District of Tunis Project
Agreement (para. 55).



This map h  beeprpered by twe e nk enesst!ff c-nyt-ly fo.tnecenfence
at Chinredlens shtfv enh s myer  do h/h is f  0n atahed The denenhminaeisns seed end the    k. ni    -X                                                               /   .
a  f,thnese.U any rmmpmene en hen lepal nsa/us stal ot ern/cryV m' any endar.esaener m'5  * *en  ::t o - l0mt
bf ft -    flh-p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Th~~~~~Ge ctC-r
,.db,i                          th'.t:a f =h,;, "X/                                             .. \, _' _e                                      /-
:  ; -:0t: S-;--; \  \    '\ 's    \                                                            TUNISIA~\TWIGMA  ~yr 
\    ; t;~~~~~~b h. ~           ' vW f-y &,"b ,y 9-d- EO   DURANDV  LPET   RJC
;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     --V.-               2's: .     AD    AOUI   PRDN    OPNN
)r-1pf                /  '   V   4$'6 ,k'                   \ ,2    \
t : 0; | .,; 8 & . < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                  _ ~  y   '                      S e tC n /j e t   ,                   hu ni\
i,mi\~~~~~~i
2                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAIDA MANOUBIA UPGRADING COMPONENT
EXISTING     PROPOSED
PROJECT BOUNDARY
SIIJ INFILL PLOT
Z                                                        0                                                        - RESIDENTIAL AREA
WORKSHOP AREA
*~~~  *::~~~~~    '                  HI                U ~~~~RE EN AR EA
i-f-    -J  -                                lb                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRICK FACTORY
-  rAn'\tr ~~~~~~m~~U    ~~                   I         .-- ~~PRIMARY SCHOOL
YOUTH CENTER, SECOND PHASE
I                                                        LAW             ___A   HEALTHCENTER
-U ~~~~~~~~~~k ~~~~MOSQUE
f-fl  I
H-                                                      n                          i i X'VE W,PLAYGROUND
55                                                                                                            Ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....UDEVELOPED AREA QUARRYI
ASPHALTED ACCESS ROAD
SOmi ourn                                                  -                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROAD TO BE UPGRADED
ASPHALTED ROAD
PLANNED HIGHWAY
\               -. - -. -   ~~GRADED AND COMPACTED ROAD
RAILROAD
0         1010      200          1
METERS                   - 






IBRD 14143R
MAY 1979
TUNISIA
5-3                                 < 6                           .    SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,  N n   a;/                                     JEBEL LAHMAR UPGRADING COMPONENT
i ! 3g1Wt    9   WJ  -} 9r; ;,;.o                                                                                                          E.IS UNDEVELOPED . |'t; 1- =  . ,  PO,\
\   <t   Eq<tra   Wk  ;9EN  irr<z\ Fs< s/XW 14l i 1B / Bt tspplArl >>, .-;A;0t-z%vX u < - Z                            r       l               r       ecec BBoundar
: ;8 ;       !B      F\S_f.  it r   "rS@>im     g-g .gl1tl fgi. B1- A                                                                                                          Infil l Plots
s H   t  . X t> lSs22.8S  e CJ '-f.-9n]X-f. iigUiN- -    -t^w~>w5 <SFarX  t.fri44i  fewki  Mi            l    ,   8;  \                   In'AtF__L   WorkshopoArAre
\ t. nb7f -" "> = ; rEa -10 *: g! < . X ~ . i t 3 it    g  o N                                                                            ETB s  V g  t3E,o  ri;n;,, 4,;.IL;4 W> q =&R!Wv {M; inl! 1 7'- GreenGArea
\ ~ ~~~      ~~~~~                                                                                                                                                               r     .'.t'lu-t!^    ;rE"    ir~~> S Atig  fr,<\ yU r=\tm1r  Brick Faictory
\~~~~~~~~ 5  40  = \ X >>0!.',                                                                             fij-. '-   ..i r-                                                               School, Second Phase
ia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
\  \\   i=   :  :  =;  ;  ; e  i  a.,sfrg r  ,  -  .f  -  2 tEf- " ;I;-T g \\@ oW r s U e;r;,, S ,.f 3ii; EW\ Sr'rr< t = : Xrr } tHealthhCCente
X X  i!1    4    a.g  uZr ~<ir31 ~r  >*-Mj \  \  (   w w,  rlt;F<1ff!   _=ff  ar @ "5       -&j-   r ,fCu turaralCCente
f   K~~~~~~Mre
/2~ -j
\  \&itE  0 <3 IEDl; witliCre >  - da;> 31tff r . % k \N8L3X -e -el r; 'X*>f, l/Wiiz\t s: | Playgroundygroun
\_           PROPOSEDL;r,>_;&\   \  -   g ; b(Second Phose)
A7Wrsphopte  ARead
FIN_                                                  Xi \;0 \\   \ \ 1- '   ' 5 C trd maced Road
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ o fR  reK;                                                                    4      0>                                                          Market<wf-l;-1fSagr  |    1     >   g
Th,\ -P h.\ b...i"S,= p,.,-d b,                                                                         llh!<  ai A a    Rooa
Th' d.--,--d. ~ ~ ~       ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         5-                                                                 -           Gadd  n
N ~      ~~~~ \\\    \t, "'v .11      w/'t/
dr - -111, -rz . p- a f ft                                                                                                                                                                   so*o o 1n 200
WoodSsoko.tNalrnOoirl9otGhtt5t\I, TU . I '\Efi |tt3.21A      <
.nvtr      d-o,,,esowncornsc \                            METERSt
don -oe'stopsott                                  S         20           0 hr                                                                                          ucn






IBRD 14145R
MAY 1979
TUN ISIA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CIMER NORD SITEAND SERVICES
Project Boundary
________Asphalted  Road  (First Phase)
of______ t fGraded  and  Compacted  Road
Green Area
EZZ ~Plot, Type A
Plot, Type B
ZZ~~ Plot, Type C
Workshop
L) 20  40   60  80  100
METERS
Th,o -tp h-e b-., p,.p-,d by th. W.I SB-' VW -1,yf. h
of th. rd-&e  th-po of onot the ropld to .,ht  0-4.hd.                                                                                     | d,   - d \4    LIBYA
affiftas, any judgment  ont the lee'al d    t
act tPtaneo fs suh boutndaries                                                                                                             |        \\0/'Eri1==.5 i> z,  



