                          PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                           CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                              Report No.: AB4493            Comment [OPCS1]: The report
 Operation Name                 Togo: Second Economic Recovery and Governance Grant                          number is automatically generated by the
                                                                                                             Internal Documents Unit (IDU) and
                                (ERGG-2)                                                                     should not be changed.
 Region                         AFRICA
 Sector                         General industry and trade sector (45%);Central government
                                administration (25%);Banking (10%);District heating and energy
                                efficiency services (10%);Agricultural extension and research
                                (10%)
 Project ID                     P113456
 Borrower(s)                    GOVERNMENT OF TOGO
 Implementing Agency            Ministry of Economy and Finance coordinates the implementation
                                in close association with several line ministries
 Date PID Prepared              January 23, 2009
 Estimated Date of              February 16, 2009
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board        March 31, 2009
 Approval

1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Togo has emerged from a decade-plus-long socio-political crisis marked by heightened tensions,
instability, and withdrawal of donor support that took a toll on Togo's economy, infrastructure and
institutions. Traditional export sectors suffered from adverse terms of trade and mismanagement of
state-owned enterprises. Governance problems and banking sector difficulties inhibited private
investment. A heavy external debt burden and weak fiscal management led to the rapid accumulation of
arrears. Togo's progress toward political stability and improved economic performance during 2005-
2008 paved the way for clearance of arrears and reengagement with the international community in
2008. Having reached its HIPC decision point in November 2008, Togo is now on a path toward
reducing its debt burden and freeing up fiscal space over time.

Despite the progress achieved, Togo continues to face daunting institutional and economic challenges,
including: (i) poor governance and low administrative capacity; (ii) excessive external public debt and
domestic arrears; (iii) undercapitalized state-owned banks with a high share of nonperforming loans; (iv)
a severe energy crisis resulting in frequent power outages; (v) weakly performing state-owned cotton
and phosphate enterprises; (vi) a poor business environment; and (vii) deteriorated social conditions
stemming from inadequate management of public resources. Real GDP grew 4 percent in 2006; however
it slowed to 2 percent in 2007 and an estimated 0.8 percent in 2008 due to several exogenous shocks to
which Togo is periodically vulnerable. To revive the economy and reduce poverty, the Togolese
authorities are seeking to consolidate macroeconomic stability and advance priority structural reforms,
while securing stepped-up technical and financial assistance from development partners.

The proposed grant is an integral part of the Bank's Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Togo for the period
FY08-10 that is closely aligned with the Government's I-PRSP adopted in March 2008. The grant
directly supports the first of three ISN pillars and provides financing for budgeted fiscal needs during
2009 aimed at pursuing the objectives of the I-PRSP. The proposed reforms are essential to the
Government's ability to use public resources efficiency and effectively to support the country's
economic and social recovery. These actions will be followed by a more comprehensive program of
reforms that the Government is preparing in its full PRSP, to be finalized in the first half of 2009.

2. Proposed objective(s)

Given the complex socio-political environment and past governance and transparency issues facing the
Government, the key objective of the ERGG-2 is to support government-owned reforms to improve
public finance management and restore performance of key public enterprises and banks. It would also
contribute to creating the conditions for increased private sector confidence, investment and growth
recovery through improved governance and transparency in the identified sectors. In supporting key
governance reforms, the grant would facilitate Togo's progress toward debt relief under the HIPC
Initiative and MDRI upon reaching the completion point. These reforms would lead over time to
strengthened fiscal sustainability, improved economic governance and enhanced transparency of State
institutions and processes. The resources made available by this grant will assist the Government in
implementing activities that would otherwise be beyond its fiscal capabilities, including financing the
provision of basic public services.

3. Preliminary description

The Grant is a one-tranche development policy operation which would assist Togo in supporting the
government's economic recovery program. In addition to measures to restore fiscal and debt
sustainability, the reform program focuses on (i) improving public finance management, and (ii)
strengthening governance and transparency in the management of key public enterprises and banks.
Under the first policy area, the government intends to advance reforms to improve budget formulation,
execution and controls, and public procurement. The second policy area includes reform measures
aimed at facilitating recovery in, and good performance of, the phosphate, cotton, energy and financial
sectors.

4. Environment Aspects

These reforms that deal mainly with economic governance and institutional issues are not likely to have
significant negative impacts on the country's environment and natural resources.

The reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant represent a first round of a broader
program of actions to promote the recovery of key sectors, notably cotton, phosphates and energy, in
addition to strengthening public financial management and reforming the financial sector. These
reforms, dealing mainly with economic governance and institutional issues, are not likely to have
significant negative impacts on the country's environment and natural resources.

5. Poverty and Social Impacts

The proposed ERGG II is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty reduction.
There are likely positive distributional effects from the improved public financial management and key
reforms in the cotton, phosphates, energy and financial sectors. Specifically, efforts to improve the
capacity of the State to implement its budget priorities and strengthen public financial management
would enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use, and increase the
country's absorption capacity for external resources. Strengthening governance and transparency in the
cotton sector is expected to facilitate a rebound in cotton production in the short term, thereby improving
the livelihood of a large sector of the population (about 300,000) which relies on this cash crop as a
dominant source of earnings. Liquidating the poorly functioning SOTOCO and creating a new company
with significant farmer participation (40 percent equity representation) and strengthening its financial
and operational management systems would help restore confidence in the sector and help production
recover from the current low levels.

Improving governance in the energy sector should contribute to the easing of electricity constraints to
economic growth. The resultant increase in economic activity would increase government revenues,
which could be used to increase expenditures for basic social services. Reforming the financial sector
would help strengthen the financial situation of institutions affected by the crisis and improve the
soundness of the banking sector, which in turn would contribute to macroeconomic stability and help re-
launch economic activities which have been severely affected by the crisis. The grant would also help
fund the provision of basic public services during 2009 with a high beneficial impact on the poor, in
complement to implementation of the Togo Community Development Project (approved FY08) and the
additional financing (approved FY09) under the Global Food Crisis Response Program.

6. Risks

The proposed operation presents significant country and fiduciary risks. The four principal risks are: (i)
political risk stemming mainly from possible political tensions that could slow the current reform
momentum; (ii) macroeconomic risk stemming from the vulnerability of the Togolese economy to
exogenous shocks (such as the recent increases in international food and oil prices, or the severe
domestic floods) or a possibly prolonged global downturn caused by the financial crisis. Other possible
shocks include euro appreciation, a worsening regional energy crisis, bad weather affecting agriculture,
loss of confidence that could cause capital outflows, and delays in rebuilding the transport infrastructure
destroyed by the recent flooding which could also hinder the economic recovery; (iii) fiduciary risk
arising from failure to avoid corruption or failure of the government to make effective and efficient use
of the fiscal space made available by arrears clearance, budget support and debt relief; and (iv)
implementation capacity risk arising from an insufficient number of professional staff in government
and weak institutional capacity and coordination.


It is expected that frequent broad-based consultations with stakeholders to strengthen the case for
reforms and the Government's commitment to them would help mitigate the political risk. Also, the
proposed prior actions focus on areas in which the Government has demonstrated ownership. To reduce
vested interests' resistance to reform in critical sectors and to enhance governance, steps are being taken
to set the stage for more transparent and accountable practices in the phosphates, energy, cotton and
financial sectors. Close coordination with the IMF, AfDB and bilateral donors and intensified sector
dialogue will help ensure that top priority is given by the Government to the reform of these sectors. The
PRSP preparation process also provides an opportunity to foster national consensus across the Togolese
society and among Government representatives on a medium-term reform agenda. The macroeconomic
risk is mitigated by ongoing close economic monitoring and coordination by the Bank, the IMF and
other donors, and the Government is committed to achieve rapidly the HIPC completion point. The
fiduciary risk is mitigated through the focus of the operation on measures to improve public financial
management and capacity building provided by the Bank and other donors. The implementation capacity
risk is mitigated through the provision of extensive technical assistance by the Bank and other donors in
the areas covered by the proposed operation, including through the recent PEMFAR, an ongoing LICUS
Trust Fund grant, the planned Financial Sector and Governance Project and other activities.

7. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                        (US$m.)
International Development Association (IDA) Grant                              20
        Total                                                                  20

8. Contact point
Contact: Christina A. Wood
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-5829

Fax: (202) 473-8136
Email: cwood@worldbank.org

