                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001447



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H4670)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                    FOR A

        SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND GOVERNANCE GRANT

                                 June 30, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 2010)

                             Currency Unit = FCFA
                            US$1.00 = FCFA 499

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA        Analytical and Advisory Activities
AfDB       African Development Bank
BCEAO      Central Bank of West African States
BIA        Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique (International Bank for Africa)
BOAD       Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement (West African Development Bank)
BTCI       Banque Togolaise pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (Commerce and Industry
           Bank of Togo)
BTD        Banque Togolaise de Développement (Togo Development Bank)
CC         Cour de Comptes (State Audit Office)
CEB        Communauté d'Électricité de Benin (Benin Electricity Community)
CEET       Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo (Togo Electric Energy Company)
CERPM      Comité d'Etude et de Rédaction des Projets de Marchés (Procurement Review
           and Contract Preparation committee)
CET        Common External Tariff
CFAF       Franc of the African Financial Community
CNCS       Comité Nationale de Coordination et de Suivi de la réforme de passation des
           marchés publics (National Committee for the Coordination and Monitoring of
           Procurement)
CNM        Commission Nationale des Marchés (National Tender Board)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
DAF        Directeurs Administratifs et Financiers (Administrative and Financial Directors)
DGE        Direction Générale de l'Economie (General Directorate of the Economy)
DNCMP      Direction Nationale de Contrôle des Marchés Publics (National Directorate for
           Procurement Oversight)
DPO        Development Policy Operation
EC         European Commission
ECOWAS     Economic Community of West African States
EITI       Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
ERGG       Economic Recovery and Governance Grant
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficient Syndrome
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IGF        Inspection Générale des Finances (General Finance Inspectorate)
IMF        International Monetary Fund
ISN        Interim Strategy Note
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
LICUS      Low-Income Country Under Stress
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
NSCT     Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo (The New Togo Cotton Company)
SALT     Société Aéroportuaire de Lomé (Lomé Airport Company)
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PAL      Port Autonome de Lomé (Lomé Autonomous Port )
SIAB     Société Inter-Africaine de Banque (Inter-African Banking Company)
SIGFIP   Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Integrated Public Finance
         Management System)
SNI      Société Nationale d'Investissement (National Investment Company)
SNPT     Société Nouvelle des Phosphates de Togo (The New Phosphate Company of
         Togo)
SOTOCO   Société Togolaise de Coton (Togo Cotton Company)
TdE      Togolaise des Eaux (Togo Water Company)
Tpa      Metric tons per annum
Tpd      Metric tons per day
UN       United Nations
UTB      Union Togolaise de Banques (Union of Togolese Banks)
VAT      Value-Added Tax
WAEMU    West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMU     West African Monetary Union
ZF       Zone Franche (Free Trade Zone)




                      Vice President:    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:     Madani Tall
                    Sector Manager:      Philip English (Acting)
                 Task Team Leader:       Christina A. Wood
                   ICR Team Leader       Christina A. Wood
                           TOGO
     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT ON
     A SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND GOVERNANCE GRANT



                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring


1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 22
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 28
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 29
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 30

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 34
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 35
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 36
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Togo: Economic
Country:                Togo                    Program Name:             Recovery and Gov.
                                                                          Grant 2
Program ID:             P113456                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4670
ICR Date:               06/30/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TOGO
Original Total
                        XDR 13.6M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.6M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/05/2009     Effectiveness:             07/02/2009         07/02/2009
Appraisal:            03/12/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/21/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:                    Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               10                  10
Central government administration                                     50                  50
Crops                                                                 20                  20
Mining and other extractive                                           10                  10
Power                                                                 10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                10                  10
Other public sector governance                                        10                  10
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      50                  50
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                       20                  20
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            E. Philip English                    Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Christina A. Wood                    Christina A. Wood
ICR Team Leader:           Christina A. Wood
ICR Primary Author:        Michael J. Wilson




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To support Government-owned reforms to improve public financial management and
restore performance of key public enterprises and banks.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                   PEFA indicator PI-10 (the number of types of information, among 6, that the
Indicator 1 :
                   government makes available to the public).
                                                                             2 (budget execution
Value                                                                        reports, and
                                          1-2 types of
(quantitative or   0                                                         monthly publication
                                          information
Qualitative)                                                                 of all awarded
                                                                             contracts)
Date achieved      12/31/2008             12/31/2009                         12/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %           100 % achieved.
achievement)
                   Management of public funds is in compliance with regional good practice, with
Indicator 2 :      clear separation of accounting, revenue and payment functions and
                   coordination by the Treasury Director.
Value
                                            Complete                           Complete
(quantitative or   No separation.
                                            separation.                        separation
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Share of planned ex-post internal audits undertaken during the year.
Value
                                                                               50 percent (4 of 8
(quantitative or   0 percent.               60 percent.
                                                                               activities).
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                   Partially achieved. The full 60 percent target is expected to be achieved by the
(incl. %
                   end of the 2nd quarter 2010.
achievement)
                   Share of contracts in three key ministries, seven major public companies and
Indicator 4 :
                   the Lomé Municipal Office, that are subject to prior review by the National



                                                 iii
                   Procurement Department.
Value
                                           At least 80
(quantitative or   0 percent.                                                  0 percent
                                           percent.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
                   Target not achieved, due to delay in adopting the procurement law and
Comments
                   continuing procurement delays beyond the government's control through 2009.
(incl. %
                   50 percent of contracts in the last quarter of the year were subject to prior
achievement)
                   review.
Indicator 5 :      Frequency of publication of procurement contracts.
Value
(quantitative or   Twice a year            Monthly.                            Monthly.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                   A summary of contracts is published monthly on the government's web site and
(incl. %
                   also disseminated to the press.
achievement)
                   Periodicity of record keeping and information management is established and
Indicator 6 :
                   adhered to in the cotton company.
                                                                           Record keeping
                                                                           remains irregular
                                                                           since the new
                                            Regular record
Value              Irregular record                                        accounting system
                                            keeping, billing
(quantitative or   keeping, billing and                                    is not yet in place
                                            and payment
Qualitative)       payment practices.                                      given the delay in
                                            practices.
                                                                           procurement
                                                                           process for the
                                                                           consultant.
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %           Not yet achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Cotton producers' share of the international price for cotton.
                                           60.5 percent if
                                           production is
                                           below 50,000 tons;
                                           61.5 percent if
Value
                   58.6 percent (2008-09 production is                          61 percent (2009-
(quantitative or
                   crop season)            between 50,000                       10 crop season)
Qualitative)
                                           and 60,000 tons;
                                           and 62.5 percent
                                           if production is
                                           above 60,000 tons.
Date achieved      03/31/2009              03/31/2010                           12/31/2009
Comments
                   Target achieved 100%, since output was only 30,000 tons (i.e., below 50,000
(incl. %
                   tons).
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Frequency of publication of phosphate revenues' reconciliation.
Value              0                       1 a year.                          1 a year.


                                                iv
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      NPL of the three state-owned Banks (BTCI, UTB, BIA)
Value
(quantitative or   > 5 percent.             < 5 percent.                        <5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                   Target achieved 100%. Net NPLs were: 1.25% for BTCI, 4.59% for UTB, and
(incl. %
                   0.80% for BIA.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Share of losses in CEET's electricity grid.
Value
(quantitative or   20 percent.              19 percent.                         19.8 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                   Partially achieved. The reduction in losses during 2009 relative to 2008 was
(incl. %
                   0.2 of a percentage point instead of 1 percentage point.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
      Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :      NA
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1      12/15/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             21.34




                                                  v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                            vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Second Economic Recovery and Governance Grant (ERGG-2) was prepared
commencing late 2008 and approved in April 2009, in the context of Togo's continued
satisfactory implementation of reforms during the first year of its reengagement with IDA
and the international community. The donors aimed to backstop the government reform
initiative, through a coordinated support strategy linking IDA, the IMF, the African
Development Bank (AfDB), the European Commission (EC) and bilateral donors
(notably France), building on the common experience of the immediate post-
reengagement period. The Government's clear commitment to pursue and deepen
economic reforms presented a window of opportunity for resumption of IDA's program,
which had been suspended since 2002.

The Bank's dialogue with the Government on the initial Economic Recovery and
Governance Grant (ERGG) was initiated in November 2007, following resumption of EC
cooperation subsequent to satisfactory management of Togo's legislative elections, the
final milestone set by the international community for reengagement with the country.
IDA preparation of the ERGG paralleled, and was coordinated closely with, the IMF's
preparation of a Togo PRGF as well as the AfDB's arrears clearance dialogue with the
country. In April 2008, the IMF Board approved the PRGF-supported program,
applicable from January 2008. A bridge loan linked to the ERGG program enabled the
Government of Togo to clear its arrears to the Bank in May 2008, paving the way first for
regularization of IDA financing and second, together with PRGF approval, for
normalization of relations with the rest of the international community. Togo
subsequently cleared its arrears with the AfDB in mid-2008. In June 2008 Togo cleared
or reached agreement on the clearance of over 90 percent of its external arrears, with
IDA, the AfDB, the EC, the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the Paris Club. Togo
reached its HIPC decision point in November 2008, after establishing a six month track
record of reform under the PRGF, completing its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Program (I-PRSP), and reaching agreement with the Bank and Fund staffs on HIPC
completion point triggers. A full PRSP was adopted in 2009.

Significant progress in reforms was achieved under the ERGG. Government moved
quickly to implement public finance management measures: the elimination of
unbudgeted payments, monthly monitoring of budget execution, allowing more time to
analyze fiscal data and permitting better and more timely decision-making. A new
General Inspectorate of Finance (Inspection générale des finances) was established to
handle regular ex-post inspections of expenditures as well as specific investigative
assignments. The Government also began to clear domestic arrears, with priority to
cotton producers and small and medium size enterprises (SME). Good progress was made
toward the preparation of a new procurement law and regulations in line with West
African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) standards. Achievements upon which
the ERGG-2 built included: (i) a new strategy for the cotton sector and completion of
financial audits, opening the way to further re-structuring of the cotton company beyond


                                           1
that achieved during 2007-08; (ii) a new strategy for re-structuring and recapitalizing the
state banks and the largest bank placed under new management; (iii) new management at
the national electricity company, with updated company regulations aligned with
WAEMU business law; (iv) cessation of accumulation of non-performing loans by mid-
2008 and reaching the WAMU prudential norm of 8 percent in three public banks.

The Government also engaged in prudent macroeconomic management including
response to exogenous shocks. In 2007 and again in 2008 heavy flooding caused serious
damage to infrastructure and agricultural production. By mid-2008, a third shock in the
form of global food crisis and high fuel prices, slowed growth and reduced living
standards only to be followed by the growing global recession which hit investment,
transit trade and remittances. The Government moved to mitigate the impact of these
repeated shocks through targeted measures. These included: clearing wage and pension
arrears, temporary wage supplements to public employees, increasing the minimum
wage, selling grain reserves, and introducing a fertilizer subsidy to increase domestic
food production.

Despite the progress achieved, Togo continued to face daunting institutional and
economic challenges. Its economic growth record was among the worst in the region,
reflecting a combination of factors including: (i) poor governance and low administrative
capacity, after the long period of sociopolitical conflict, mismanagement of public
resources, and lack of foreign assistance; (ii) excessive external public debt and domestic
arrears; (iii) undercapitalized state-owned banks, with the highest nonperforming loan
ratio in the WAMU area; (iv) a severe energy crisis resulting in frequent power outages;
(v) loss-making state-owned cotton and phosphate enterprises; (vi) a poor business
environment; and (vii) deteriorated social conditions. Having reached its HIPC decision
point in November 2008, Togo had embarked on a clear path toward reducing its debt
burden and freeing up fiscal space over time. The HIPC process, underpinned by
continued reforms, would enable Togo's external public debt to decline from 396 percent
of revenues in 2007 to 65 percent after the completion point. The decision point also
opened the door to new multilateral and bilateral resources, critical to finance Togo's
poverty reduction strategy. To revive the economy and reduce poverty, the Togolese
authorities were seeking to consolidate macroeconomic stability and advance priority
structural reforms, while securing stepped-up technical and financial assistance from
development partners.

Rationale for Bank assistance

Given the complex governance and transparency issues facing the government, ERGG-2
was designed to give continuing momentum to Togo's economic and social recovery by
deepening reforms initiated under the initial ERGG with the objective of improving
governance, transparency and efficiency in public financial management as well as of
advancing structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in the
key sectors of the economy (phosphates, cotton, energy and financial sectors). These
reforms were expected to enhance fiscal sustainability over time, and improve economic
governance through increased transparency in the management of public finances and
greater accountability in the state-owned banks and enterprises, all of which are critical


                                            2
measures for the country's economic and social recovery. The ERGG-2 was also deemed
necessary for providing financial support to the Government whose annual debt service to
IDA and other multilaterals was likely to remain high until the HIPC completion point
was reached. ERGG-2 was an integral part of the Bank's interim assistance strategy for
Togo (FY08-10) approved in May 2008. ERGG-2 also complemented assistance to
Government's reforms through the Financial Sector and Governance Project, the
Enhanced HIPC Initiative, the AfDB budget support operation and the IMF PRGF
program.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Objectives

The ERGG-2 supported government reform to improve governance, transparency and
efficiency in public financial management, as well as helping advance structural reforms
aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in the key sectors of the economy
(phosphates, cotton, energy and financial sectors).

Outcomes and Indicators

Outcome 1: Improved public financial management, as measured by:
· Budget formulation and monitoring: PEFA indicator PI-10 (access of the public to the
   principle budget information) improved to C+ (end-2009). Baseline: D (2008),
   meaning the Government made available to the public none of the six listed types of
   information.
· Budget execution: Management of public funds is in compliance with regional good
   practice, with clear separation of accounting, revenue and payment functions and
   coordination by the Treasury Director. Baseline: core treasury functions (accounting,
   revenue and payment) were not separated functionally before 2009.
· Budget controls: Sixty percent of programmed ex-post internal audits undertaken
   during 2009. Baseline: no ex-post internal audits were undertaken prior to 2009.
· Public procurement: At least 80 percent of contracts during the last quarter of 2009 in
   three key ministries (Public Works, Health and Primary Education), seven major
   public companies (and the Lomé Municipal Office), to be subjected to prior review by
   the Direction nationale de contrôle des marchés publics. Baseline: 0 percent (2008).
· Public reporting of contracts on a monthly basis through 2009. Baseline: a summary
   of contracts signed since January 1, 2008 was published twice (in 2008 and early
   2009).

Outcome 2: Strengthened governance and efficiency in key sectors, as measured by:
· Cotton: Regular record keeping and information management is established and
   adhered to. Baseline: The company has irregular record keeping, billing and payment
   practices.
· Producers' share of the international price for the 2009-2010 crop season to be 60.5
   percent if production fell below 50,000 tons, 61.5 percent if production was between



                                            3
      50,000 and 60,000 tons and 62.5 percent if production was above 60,000 tons.
      Baseline: 58.6 percent (2008-09 campaign).
·     Phosphates: Publication of the sector's financial contribution to public revenues at
      least annually. Baseline: No public information was available as of December 31,
      2008.
·     Finance: The three state-owned commercial banks (BTCI, UTB, BIA) have resumed
      lending to creditworthy borrowers with non-performing loans (NPLs) kept under 5
      percent in 2009. Baseline: NPLs in the three banks were above 5 percent as of
      December 31, 2007.
·     Electricity: Losses in CEET's electricity grid reduced by 1 percentage point in 2009.
      Baseline: losses in CEET's electricity grid were 20 percent end-December 2007.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

    PDO and result indicators remained unchanged during program implementation.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The ERGG-2 supported reforms in the following key areas:

Public financial management
The ERGG-2 supported three policy actions required for deepening public expenditure
management reform, with the goal of facilitating the normal budget cycle, improving
budget execution and strengthening audit and control functions. First, making public the
2008 budget execution report, and submitting a draft 2009 budget in line with the I-PRSP
priorities to the National Assembly before the end of fiscal 2008 (the budget process had
broken down, with budgets appearing as late as mid-year, leaving no time for official
review or inputs from stakeholders). Second, finalization of Treasury re-organization in
line with the WAEMU Directive, through creation of a General Payment Office (Paierie
générale), a General Revenue Office (Recette générale) and a Treasury Central
Accounting Agency (TCAA) (these key functions had become intermingled, with
redundancy in personnel and procedures, leading to delays and imprecise information).
Third, creating and staffing the General Finance Inspectorate under the direct
responsibility of the Minister of Economy and Finance, with nomination of an Inspector
General (the Government lacked the capacity to carry evaluations of key processes and
major contracts, making it vulnerable to failures in governance).
The ERGG-2 also supported two policy actions critical to public procurement reform:
first, the transmittal to the National Assembly of the draft procurement law consistent
with the WAEMU Directives (procurement capacity had eroded due to personnel
changes, leading to lack of respect for procedures and irregularities); and second, the
publication of a summary of procurement contracts for 2008 in the bi-weekly journal
"L'Entrepreneur" published by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (failure to
inform the public had worked to undermine its confidence in government) .




                                              4
Governance and efficiency in key economic sectors

ERGG-2 advanced reforms addressed by the first ERGG by implementing identified
follow-up actions, designed to address critical issues in the following sectors:

(i)     Phosphate sector: The ERGG-2 supported improved transparency in the sector
through the publication of the results of a reconciliation of the 2007 revenues generated
from phosphate sales, with revenues received by the public Treasury that year. Lack of
clarity over revenues and their disposition had undermined confidence in the responsible
public enterprise and worked against attracting private external investment. The measure
enabled Togo to gain experience on a key EITI criteria in advance of formally initiating
the EITI accession process.
(ii)    Cotton sector: The ERGG-2 supported two policy actions judged to be critical for
advancing reforms in the cotton sector, namely measures to recover the over billed
amounts to SOTOCO which had been confirmed by the Billing Verification Task Force
(Mission de Verification) and the adoption of a new producer price mechanism that
reflected changes in international prices. These actions addressed two critical issues:
public and private trust in this state enterprise, undermined by irregular practices; and the
need to attract and maintain the pool of cotton producers which had diminished in recent
years.
(iii) Financial sector: the objective was to build confidence in the state banks through
re-capitalization and improved management systems, opening the way for renewed
lending to serve the formerly crowded-out private sector. The ERGG-2 supported one
policy action judged critical for advancing reforms in the financial sector: raising the net
worth of the three banks under restructuring (BTCI, BIA and UTB) to the WAMU
prudential ratio (Cooke ratio of 8 percent) by exchanging the banks' non-performing
loans with government-issued bonds. Improving the health of the key public banks was
essential to the restoration of prudent lending and attracting investment to the sector.
(iv)    Energy sector: Improve quality of service through enhanced management and
technical efficiency at the national distribution company. The ERGG-2 supported one
policy action deemed critical for advancing the reforms: the development and adoption of
a 5 year performance contract between the State and CEET. Service quality had
deteriorated seriously, with frequent load shedding, impacting negatively on the private
sector (increasingly obliged to resort to their own generators) and on the quality of family
life (no light for students to study by).

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations of this operation.


                                             5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The ERGG-2 was a key component of the Bank's 2008-2010 Togo Interim Strategy
Note. The ten prior actions required for grant approval reflect the priorities of the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS; 2008) and the full PRS adopted in 2009. They
represent critical steps for the medium term implementation of the reform program,
directly supporting Pillar I of the full PRS (strengthening economic governance though
better management of public finances and procurement) and Pillar II (promoting
economic recovery and sustainable development, with measures to reform state-owned
enterprises and financial institutions, and improve the business environment).

Macroeconomic performance: Implementation of the reform program is proceeding in
the context of a challenging macroeconomic environment. In this context, the authorities
are to be commended for having maintained a prudent fiscal stance so as to maintain
macroeconomic stability. The third review of the IMF-supported PRGF program was
completed in November 2009 with all quantitative and structural performance criteria
met. Implementation of the economic reform program was solid, including through
support of the Bank, especially considering the impact of the global economic slowdown,
the 2008 global price shocks, and severe flooding in the country that destroyed key
bridges on major transit arteries. Consistent with macroeconomic stability under the
PRGF program, the Togolese authorities have increased investment expenditures to
respond to the impact of the global slowdown and shocks. Table 1 gives selected
macroeconomic indicators for the period 2006-2010.


                   Table 1: TOGO: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators

                          2006          2007           2008           2009          2010
Real GDP growth (%)        3.9           1.9            2.2            3.1           3.3
Inflation CPI              2.2           1.0            8.7            2.0           2.0
(%, yearly average)
Domestic primary          - 1.1          0.2            0.4           - 0.4          -1.4
balance excl. grants
(in % of GDP)
Overall fiscal balance    -3.8           -1.9          -0.9           -2.8           -4.0
(payment order basis)
 in % of GDP
External current          -6.6           -3.9          -6.4           -7.0           -7.2
account balance
(% of GDP)
Gross int'l reserves      3.1            3.0            3.9           4.4            4.2
(months of imports)

Due to circumstances largely beyond the Government's control, the results obtained
under the implementation of the I-PRSP did not meet expectations. The negative impact
of high oil and food prices compounded by the continuing financial and human costs of
2008's severe flooding was exacerbated by the effects of the growing global recession in


                                                6
2009. Togo's economy was negatively affected because of its high fuel imports due to its
role as a regional land and sea transport hub and to the high energy consumption required
for processing phosphates. Foreign investment weakened further, with new Free Zone
projects deferred. Remittances also fell.

A return to stronger growth will be slow, with real GDP growth expected to reach 3.3
percent in 2010 in part due to the lag in available bank credit as bank re-structuring
continues. GDP growth per capita became positive in 2009 (0.5 percent) and is expected
to increase modestly in 2010 (0.7 percent). Falling food and energy prices led to lower
inflation, 2.0 percent in 2009 compared to 8.7 percent in 2008. Inflation is expected to
remain stable in 2010 at around 2 percent. However, the current account balance
remained high, at 7 percent, as exports continue to lag pending the implementation of
improvement in management and productivity in the state enterprises. Cement and
clinker sectors have proved resilient. Imports have remained high and are projected to
rise further in 2010 due principally to fiscal measures (revision of the price structure of
petroleum products). Fiscal performance in 2009 was sound, with the domestic primary
fiscal balance for 2009 estimated at -0.4 percent of GDP, versus 0.4 percent in the 2008.

For both pro-cyclical and post crisis reasons, the Togolese authorities enhanced pro-
growth fiscal measures in the second half of 2009 and 2010. A supplemental budget for
2009 was passed in June 2009, with the increased spending financed by over performance
on revenues, particularly tax revenues since the expected fees from renewal of
telecommunications licenses materialized only in January 2010, resulting in a modest
increase in the fiscal deficit for 2009 compared with the program target. The 2010 budget
continues to support economic activity with increased public investment spending
(targeted especially on rural infrastructure), which is warranted in light of the somber
economic environment in Togo and lingering effects of the global crisis.

External debt: Since the clearance of arrears to IDA and the AfDB, Government has
regularly met its debt service obligations to major multilateral creditors. After reaching
the HIPC Decision Point in late 2008, Government was able to benefit from interim debt
relief under the HIPC Initiative's "fiscal window" pending attainment of the completion
point, leading to additional debt relief under the MDRI. Togo is making progress in
implementing the HIPC triggers for the completion point, which could be reached toward
the end of 2010.

Domestic arrears: To restore private sector confidence, a strategy for clearing domestic
arrears was adopted and a National Debt Clearance Commission established to supervise
its implementation. The first phase (2008-2009) of clearance ­ regarding claims up to
FCFA 100 million, about US$200,000 ­ helped many small businesses survive the
approaching world recession.

Progress on policy reform areas

ERGG-2 Board approval was subject to implementation of prior actions, presented in
Table 2. Upon approval and effectiveness of the ERGG-2, the grant was fully disbursed



                                            7
on July 2, 2009. Since then, good progress has been achieved on public financial reforms
and in the key sector reform areas supported by the ERGG-2.




                                           8
  Table 2: ERGG-2 Prior Actions, Rationale and Implementation Status at time of
                                      ICR
Action                              Rationale                           Status at ERGG-2 approval and
                                                                        at ICR
I. Improving Public Financial Management
Public expenditure management
1. The Recipient has published, in An important measure with            Completed prior to ERGG-2
the Recipient's Government         regard to greater transparency in    approval. The budget execution
Website for reforms, the 2008      public finance and a return to the   report for 2008 was publicized.
budget execution report, and       normal budget cycle.                 The draft 2009 budget was
submitted to the National          Recommendation of the                submitted to the Assembly in
Assembly the draft version of the  PEMFAR                               October 2008 along with a note
2009 budget law before the end of                                       that explains the link to the I-
the 2008 Fiscal Year and in line                                        PRSP.
with the I-PRSP priorities.
2. The Recipient has completed     Compliance with UEMOA and            Completed prior to ERGG-2
the process of re-organization and WAEMU legislation to which           approval. The three entities were
strengthening of the Recipient's   Togo is party.                       created and the respective
Treasury, in line with the                                              directors were nominated on
WAEMU Directive No                                                      December 17, 2008.
06/97/CM/UEMOA on General
Regulations on Public
                                   The new units will enhance the
Accounting, including creation of
                                   capacity and efficiency of these
a General Payments Office
                                   key fiscal functions.
(Paierie Générale), a General
Revenue Office (Recette
Générale) and a Treasury Central
Accounting Agency within the
Treasury.
3. The Recipient has created and   Financial inspection is an           Completed prior to ERGG-2
staffed an internal audit and      important safeguard of public        approval. The IGF was created
inspection unit (Inspection        monies and especially important      on July 29, 2008 and key
Générale des Finances) under the for verifying receipt of funds by      inspectors were nominated, have
Minister of Economy and            targeted beneficiaries under         received training by AFRITAC,
Finance, and nominated the         poverty reduction measures and       and have begun work. The
Inspector General (Inspecteur      as funds are allocated to the        Inspector General was nominated
Général des Finances).             delivery site level ­ primary        on August 29, 2008 and assumed
                                   schools (school grant schemes)       his responsibilities soon
                                   and to primary health centers ­      thereafter.
                                   funds for medicine, supplies and
                                   operating costs. PEMFAR
                                   recommendation.
Public Procurement
The Recipient has transmitted to   Procurement was rated "high          Completed prior to ERGG-2
the National Assembly the draft    risk" by PEMFAR. The new law         approval. The draft procurement
procurement law consistent with    and its dissemination are a first    law was adopted by the Cabinet
the WAEMU Directives No            step toward building                 on January 2 1, 2009 and
04/2005/CM/UEMOA on                procurement capacity ­ eroded        transmitted to the National
Procurement and Payment            by the loss of human resources       Assembly on February 4, 2009.
Procedures under Public            due to retirement over the period
Contracts and Concessions within of instability and the general lack
WAEMU, and No                      of experience in procuring other



                                                    9
05/2005/CM/UEMOA on Control than small volumes of goods and
and Regulatory Functions under       services
Public Contracts and Concessions
within WAEMU.
II. Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in Key Sectors ­ Cotton, Phosphates, Energy and Financial
Phosphate Sector: The Recipient An important measure for                Completed prior to ERGG-2
has published the results of a promoting transparency and               approval. The final report was
reconciliation exercise between restoring public confidence in          published on the government's
the Fiscal Year 2007 revenues this major export earner's                website (www.togoreforme.tg)
generated from phosphate sales contributions to government              and circulated to the press on
and revenues (royalties, corporate revenues. A prerequisite for         February 12, 2009 inclusive of
taxes and other taxes) received by initiating EITI membership and       notification of posting on the
the Recipient's Treasury in Fiscal essential information for any        website.
Year 2007.                           potential international investors.
Cotton Sector: The Recipient has These measures send a strong           Completed prior to ERGG-2
taken appropriate measures to message as to the consequences            approval. The Ministry of
recover amounts overbilled by of corrupt practices. It is also an       Finance forwarded the findings of
some suppliers to SOTOCO, as important step with regard to              the Task Force on February 4,
confirmed      by     the    Billing building the confidence of the     2008 to the Justice Ministry
Verification Task Force (Mission growers' association in the new        requesting it take legal action
de Vérification).                    cotton company and public trust    toward recovering the confirmed
                                     in sector reform.                  overbilled amounts.
ii. The Recipient has adopted a      Essential to ensuring the trust of Completed prior to ERGG-2
new cotton producer price            growers in the new company in      approval. The Proposed new
mechanism to cotton producers,       which they own a 40 percent        pricing mechanism was adopted
reflecting changes in international share. A decision discussed,        at a stakeholder workshop on
prices.                              negotiated and agreed between      January 28, 2009. The procès
                                     government (the majority           verbal (minutes) of the workshop
                                     shareholder) and the growers. A was signed by representatives of
                                     strong incentive for farmers who the cotton producers association,
                                     had abandoned cotton, given the    SOTOCO and the Government
                                     failings of the old company, to
                                     return to production.
Financial Sector: The Recipient An essential first step in re-          Completed prior to ERGG-2
has raised the net worth of the structuring, once the alternatives approval. The government signed
three banks under restructuring of liquidation and "corralling"         protocols with the three banks for
(BTCI, BIA Togo and UTB) to bad debt were deemed infeasible. exchanging the NPLs with
the WAMU prudential ratio Restored bank liquidity and                   government bonds, and the bonds
(Cooke ratio of 8 percent) by prepared the way for renewed              were transferred to the banks in
exchanging the banks' non- lending. Helped re-build public              December 2008. The BCEAO
performing         loans        with trust in the sector.               authorized the tradability of the
government-issued bonds.                                                bonds.
Energy Sector: The Recipient has The performance contract is an         Completed prior to ERGG
entered into a 5 year performance important tool for re-focusing        approval. The contract, for 5
contract with CEET, designed to      management on specific             years (2009-2013), was signed on
improve CEET's management's          objectives and linked program      February 3, 2009, with a signed
efficiency, and strengthen its long budgets incorporating measures      addendum on February 27, 2009.
term financial sustainability.       to smooth out the impact of
                                     exogenous shocks (drought and
                                     volatile fuel prices), with
                                     advance contracting for delivery
                                     of power and fuel at agreed fixed
                                     prices and by systematically
                                     scheduling maintenance and the
                                     timely provision of equipment
                                     and parts, with positive impacts


                                                   10
                               on service delivery.


Public expenditure management:

Public expenditure management has continued to improve in the period 2009-2010.
Better financial controls were implemented, including: a monthly tableau de bord
(monitoring dash board) to track budget execution; a new functional budget classification
system was introduced with the 2009 budget, making it possible to track poverty
expenditures; and elimination of expenditures without prior authorization and
establishment of a line item budget for exceptional, emergency expenditures. Now that
the procurement law has been adopted, the authorities are proceeding with creating and
strengthening the procurement institutional framework. Finally, the Cour des Comptes
(Public Auditor) is being strengthened in terms of human resources and material means.

Although the initial results of these reforms are encouraging, much remains to be done, as
recognized by the November 2009 JSAN on the PRSP. Outstanding tasks include
improvements in the monitoring and predictability of budget execution, fiscal
consolidation, gradual introduction of Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEFs)
together with program budgets, further improvement of internal and external controls,
continued capacity building in the new treasury units, a cash management system aimed
at paying invoices on time to avoid any new accumulation of domestic arrears, and
implementation of Phase II of the domestic arrears clearance strategy to address claims
above the initial US$200,000 mark. A number of these have been completed as prior
actions for ERGG-3, approved by the Board on May 20, 2010.

Procurement: Government moved expeditiously to implement measures designed to
bring Togo in line with international standards as recommended by the 2009 PEMFAR.
Measures include: (i) establishment of creation of the National Committee for
Coordination and Monitoring of Procurement Reforms (CNCS), with representatives
from the private and the public sectors and civil society; (ii) adoption of the procurement
law (June 2009) and associated procurement code (November 2009); and (iii) drafting a
manual of procedures. Government is using the manual to train staff in the relevant
ministerial departments, beginning with the key PRSP ministries. Following its initiation
under the ERGG, summaries of procurement contracts have continued to be published in
the Chamber of Commerce's gazette and on the Ministry of Economy and Finance
website.

Phosphates:

The importance of the prior action is best measured against the widespread belief among
citizens that revenues owed to government by the Société Nationale de Phosphates de
Togo (SNPT), are not fully accounted for and were perhaps being "siphoned off" to the
benefit of others rather than to the public good. The prior action has built public
confidence, setting the stage for further governance reform since it is one of the criteria
for membership in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).



                                              11
Follow-up actions envisaged in the ERGG-2 with regard to EITI membership included:
first, making the publication of annual revenue reconciliations a routine annual exercise;
second, getting the institutional and regulatory framework required for initial, candidate
membership in place and adopted into law; and third, establishing implementation
arrangements, including creation of a national oversight commission with representation
of the industry, the government and civil society and appointment of a national
coordinator and the drawing up of an action plan and budget.
Progress is being made in formulating a clear strategic vision for the sector. In November
2009 a LICUS trust fund financed strategic audit was discussed with key donors and
stakeholders and a strategy was subsequently prepared and approved in March 2010.
Implementing the strategy will depend in large measure on the Government's willingness
to attract a strong international investment partner. Interest by potential investors will
likely be influenced significantly by SNPT's progress toward better management of
finances and operations, with greater transparency and accountability. Short term needs
for technical assistance include: (i) establishing selection criteria for the selection of an
international partner; (ii) working up a model draft investment and production agreement;
(iii) reviewing and updating the mining code to reflect WAEMU and ECOWAS
dispositions and to protect national interest; and (iv) developing a short list of potential
partners and seeking expressions of interest. Parallel measures to improve management
and governance include: development of operational manuals including personnel,
ensuring that purchasing respects international practice in procurement, implementing
better financial and inventory controls through an integrated management information
system.

Cotton:

The policy reform program supported by the ERGG and ERGG-2 commenced the
process toward improved governance of the cotton sector ­ and ultimately to increasing
public revenues while reducing poverty. Following deliberations on what to do with the
bankrupt cotton ginning company, SOTOCO, the authorities decided to liquidate the
company and create a new one free of debt and with strengthened operational and
managerial features. Thus, a new joint stock company la Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du
Togo ­ NSCT (owned 60 percent by government; 40 percent by the growers'
associations) was created in 2009. The new price mechanism was the result of
negotiations with the national federation of cotton growers (Fédération Nationale de
Groupements de Producteurs de Coton - FNGPC), continuing the process of stakeholder
consultation initiated prior to the ERGG. However, the mechanism was not applied for
the 2009-10 season because of inadequate time to explain it to producers. Fortunately, the
price adopted proved to be consistent with the pricing mechanism as the world price
improved. The 2010-11 campaign will prove a practical test of the workability of the
mechanism.

Procurement delays slowed implementation of the cotton company's management
information system (MIS) while government hesitation (given pending elections) about
right-sizing the company has worked to keep personnel costs high. The MIS is urgently
needed, if past errors in financial management (e.g., invalid billing of inputs) are to be
avoided. While management has been renewed, it still has to prove itself. A status report


                                             12
in December 2009 found that recently hired management staff lacked sector experience
and that the company's organizational chart seemed top-heavy in terms of senior posts.
The report also asked how well the board of directors would function, in particular with
regard to the representation of the producers (40 percent of company shares), as capacity
building measures may be required for the growers' representatives to play their full role.
The regulatory framework laying down the respective roles, obligations and
responsibilities of the two share holder groups and clarifying the conditions for an
eventual private partner had not yet been developed in 2009. This was identified in the
ERGG-2 program as a follow up action, and has been retained as a prior action for the
ERGG-3. Finally, it is important to ensure follow up by the Justice Ministry with regard
to the over-billing referred to the ministry, but on which there is no evidence of action to
date.

Finance:

Government recognized that economic development depends on a healthy financial sector
and that restructuring would lead to more efficient resource allocation toward both
poverty reduction and economic growth. Both the PRSP and the Bank's Interim Strategy
Note (ISN) underline the importance of seizing the window of opportunity presented by
the new climate for economic reform and the comparative advantage of the Bank in
providing advice and financial support.

Under the ERGG-2, the Government committed to a complete financial and internal
restructuring of the state-owned banks. Through the sale of government bonds, the
gearing ratios of three banks (BTCI, BIA and UTB) were to be brought in line with
WAMU's prudential norm of 8 percent by using government bonds to collateralize their
non-performing loans (NPLs). The securitization enabled the prudential ratio target to be
met for all three banks, but one bank subsequently fell below the 8 percent norm once
again. NPLs (related to cotton and phosphates) at a private bank (BTD) were also
securitized. Government bonds in the order FCFA 88.1 billion were issued, bearing a
market rate of 6 percent so they could be resold per central bank guidelines. The central
bank also agreed that the government bonds could be used to securitize loans at
commercial banks, broadening the "rescue" to the entire sector. Consideration was given
to the alternative of outright closure of the banks and consolidation of the bad loans in a
single bank to facilitate the process of gradual retirement of NPLs. However, given the
weak health of the sector, low public confidence and growing fears, the option chosen
was a progressively staged, absorbable restructuring.

In order to channel technical expertise and financial resources into the re-structuring
effort and support the sector reform objectives highlighted in the ERGG-2, a Financial
Sector and Governance Project (FSGP) was prepared (and approved by the Board in
March 2009) whose objectives are: (i) to complete the financial and institutional
restructuring of BIA, BTCI and UTB; (ii) to improve the internal and external
supervision of microfinance institutions; (iii) to design and implement the strategy for
reducing pension deficits at the two social security institutions--the Caisse de la Retraite




                                            13
Togolaise `(CRT) and the Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale (CNSS); and (iv) to
enhance the government's capacity to manage overall sector reform.

The ERGG-2 identified private participation in BTCI, BIA, UTB and BTD as an
important follow on action for the sector, and activities toward this end are underway.
The reform is on track. The privatization advisers for the 4 public banks (BTCI, UTB,
BIA and BTD) started working on November 15, 2009, and an Information Notice was
advertized on December 30, 2009, announcing the Government's intention to disengage
from 4 public banks. The privatization advisers have been progressing with their required
due diligences. An update of the legal framework for privatization is planned. Due to the
Presidential elections in March 2010, some delay has been experienced in early 2010
regarding the implementation of key actions by the Government. It is expected that
decisions will be taken quickly upon installation of the new Government, enabling the
privatization process to move forward.

Energy: The ERGG-2 advanced corporate reform (initiated under ERGG) at CEET by
introducing performance contracting as a prior action, covering the period 2009-2013.
Key objectives of the contract were the reduction of load losses and the improvement of
managerial and technical efficiency. As the performance contract was only signed in
February 2009, there has not yet been much time to show progress, but technical losses
did fall by 0.2% between 2008 and 2009. A program to improve technical efficiency is
being supported under the Emergency Infrastructure and Energy Grant (2009), including
actions to: (i) reduce peak load by promoting the use of compact fluorescent lamps; (ii)
improve the quality of service in selected areas of Lomé; (iii) increase hours of service by
reducing load shedding and cuts due to lack of maintenance and equipment failure; and
(iv) build CEET's technical capacity by training staff in network operations and
maintenance. The commissioning of an energy sector review financed by the LICUS
grant for Economic Recovery and International Re-engagement will lay the foundation
for the preparation of a strategy for the electricity sector.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Factors outside the control of the Government.

Climate and international market shocks: A worsening world economy, external price
shocks, and the effects of serious flood damage on infrastructure and cotton production
had a negative impact on economic growth during ERGG-2 implementation. While
reforms went forward, senior officials were necessarily preoccupied by the continuing
emergency conditions while budget constraints limited the potential for fiscal stimulus. In
the phosphate sector, international market conditions were favorable due to a temporary
sharp increase in phosphate price, beyond US$150 a ton (as compared with average
prices of between US$40-50 a ton over the last decade). The windfall cash flow brought
temporary financial relief to the phosphate company SNPT. By late 2009 however, prices
had begun to fall. Should this trend continue, the SNPT will not be competitive in the
absence of an overhaul of management and new investment in equipment.




                                            14
Soundness of the background analysis. The work for the PEMFAR was invaluable in
identifying anomalies in public expenditures and bottlenecks in systems and procedures,
while identifying capacity needs. With regard to the cotton sector, the Bank benefitted
from a set of multi-year comparative country studies which helped assess Togo's
performance in the light of its competitors. The 2008 Development Policy Needs Review
identified critical issues in the cotton, phosphates, energy and banking sectors.
Preparatory analysis for an Emergency infrastructure Rehabilitation and Energy Project
(2009) was also useful. The 2006 Financial Sector Review highlighted the difficult
situation of the banking sector, identifying the prime candidates for restructuring and
recapitalization, with measures to improve internal controls and develop management
information, reduce operating costs, and to strengthen lending procedures. Further
technical assistance was provided in the context of preparing the Financial Sector and
Governance Project.

Procurement process delays. Multiple delays experienced in the provision of technical
assistance for implementing the program were due to weak responsiveness of the market.
In the first instance, recruitment of a procurement specialist for the LICUS trust fund
implementation unit was initially unsuccessful as no suitable candidates applied. In the
second attempt, the best candidate eventually declined the employment offer after
considerable delay (5 months); and by that time the second candidate accepted the offer,
again with some delay, 18 months had elapsed. At the request of the Government, the
Bank authorized the implementation unit to proceed with occasional help from the
procurement specialist working for another Bank project, which facilitated the launch of
the two most urgent studies (on phosphates and the public procurement code). These also
proved difficult to initiate: the first call for bids for the phosphates strategic audit elicited
no proposals, a second call generated only two offers, and a third had to be based on a
longer list of potential consulting firms constructed with the help of the Bank. A contract
was finally signed for the phosphate study one year after implementation of the trust fund
commenced. These problems absorbed much of the available capacity in the project unit
and delayed action on other project components, notably the cotton MIS study, for which
there was a huge financial discrepancy between the two bids judged acceptable from a
technical standpoint, causing the authorities to hesitate in awarding the contract to the
winning bid before confirming that the company was indeed capable of completing the
work.

Factors generally subject to government control.

Adequacy of government commitment: The Government's strong commitment to
maintain macroeconomic stability and advance structural reforms in key economic
sectors were positive factors and remained constant during the ERGG-2 implementation
period. Growing public confidence subsequent to the Comprehensive Political Agreement
(Accord Politique Global), and the clearing of the country's arrears leading to the
renewed financial support of donors further strengthened the commitment of the
Government. The reforms supported by this operation were part of the Government's
reform agenda first detailed in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy adopted in March
2008 and in the full Poverty Reduction Strategy of May 2009, resulting in strong



                                               15
ownership of the reforms. The participatory PRS consultation process, embracing all
stakeholders ­ civil society, beneficiary groups such as women and youth, the private
sector and the administration ­ helped ensure public support for reform. This emphasis on
consultation and participation continued in the preparation of the ERGG-2, for example
in the Government's conversation with cotton growers in the context of their new
financial participation in the national cotton company.

Assessment of the operation's design.

Realism/degree of complexity: The operation comprised governance issues in the public
sector and in selected publicly-owned entities in key sectors of the economy. In this
regard, the operation was thematically focused and limited the coverage of institutional
counterparts to a handful of actors. Strong leadership of the Ministry of Finance in its role
of supervision and coordination of the reforms simplified the design of the program. To
address weak capacity of public and parastatal agencies, the program incorporated
technical assistance in all sectors in coordination with other donor agencies. The
resources provided by the LICUS trust fund facilitated preparation of key sector studies
and audits while the donors financed technical assistance to key government departments
(for example, African Development Bank funded the development and implementation of
the Système intégré de gestion des finances publiques (SIGFIP) in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, and the IMF provided technical assistance to budget formulation,
execution and control functions).

Relevance of the risks identified.

Risks were well identified and measures to mitigate them were appropriate (Table 3). The
Government also proved responsive in addressing unexpected exogenous shocks which
limited access to food and damaged infrastructure by introducing food subsidies and
other social protection measures. This included increased spending during 2009 under a
supplemental budget adopted in June 2009, financed in part with over performance on tax
revenues, and higher investment spending under the 2010 budget.




                                             16
               Table 3: ERGG-2: Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors
                        Risk                                              Risk Mitigation

Political risk. Efforts to improve governance of the    i. Frequent broad-based consultations with
public sector, public enterprises and banks could be    stakeholders would help strengthen the case for the
slowed in the wake of possible political tensions in    reforms and demonstrate Government's
Togo's still fragile socio-political environment.       commitment to the reforms.

                                                        iv. The process toward completing a full PRSP
                                                        would help foster a national consensus on the
                                                        medium term reform agenda.

                                                        ii. Measures underway to ensure greater
                                                        accountability and transparency in the phosphates,
                                                        energy, cotton and financial sectors would reduce
                                                        resistance to reform by vested interests.

                                                        iii. IDA's close coordination with the IMF, AfDB
                                                        and bilateral donors as well as intensified sector
                                                        dialogue, would help ensure that reform remained
                                                        central to the Government's agenda.

Macroeconomic risks included vulnerability to           i. The Community Development Project (CDP)
exogenous shocks, notably terms of trade and            would help mitigate impact of the food crisis, as
climate shocks, and a prolonged global slowdown         would additional financing under the Global Food
caused by the financial crisis. The continued           Crisis Response Program to complement the CDP.
fragility of the banking sector could also undermine
macroeconomic stability while continuing weakness       ii. Togo's main creditors had agreed to provide
of the key public enterprises could slow growth         interim debt relief and to increase technical
further.                                                assistance as well as resource flows to Togo in line
                                                        with the fiscal framework of the PRGF.

                                                        iii. Continued IDA budget support through annual
                                                        development policy operations in support of
                                                        ongoing reforms; and implementation of the
                                                        Financial Sector and Governance Project would
                                                        provide ongoing technical assistance to
                                                        implementation of the sector reforms.

                                                        iv. The Paris Club agreement on a debt payment
                                                        moratorium (April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2011)
                                                        subject to continued satisfactory implementation of
                                                        the PRGF.

                                                        v. IDA assistance to strengthen debt management
                                                        through implementation of IDA's assessment,
                                                        together with that of other donors.




                                                       17
Fiduciary risk arising from the failure of the         i. Improving fiduciary standards was a key objective
Government to avoid corruption or to make              of the ERGG-2, with measures to improve public
effective and efficient use of the increased fiscal    financial management, in particular through the
space made available by budget and debt relief         adoption of a new procurement law consistent with
                                                       international norms and standards.

                                                       ii. Creation of a General Procurement Department
                                                       responsible for disseminating the new law and
                                                       fostering its application in key ministries (public
                                                       works, health and education) and in the state
                                                       enterprises would help limit this risk.

                                                       iii. Technical assistance aimed at implementing the
                                                       PEMFAR recommendations by IDA, the IMF and
                                                       other donors was expected to further improve
                                                       fiduciary standards.

                                                       iv. With regard to IDA budget support, proceeds
                                                       would be deposited in a dedicated account subject to
                                                       audit at IDA's request and in accord with terms of
                                                       reference acceptable to IDA

Implementation capacity risk. The long period of       (i) Technical assistance through IDA projects and
internal instability had disrupted government          TF grants targeting ERGG-2 reform priorities has
operations including staff development, and donors     helped mitigate this risk. An ongoing LICUS grant
had withdrawn support, with many qualified staff       for Economic Recovery and International
leaving government, which all worked to weaken         Reengagement (FY 08) has provided support to
capacity.                                              reforms in public procurement and in the cotton,
                                                       coffee, cocoa, energy and port sectors.

                                                       (ii) Analytical work was underway to identify
                                                       capacity building needs that could be supported in
                                                       the medium term by a future CAS. Other donors
                                                       (AfDB, EC and France) also supported capacity
                                                       building efforts in various sectors.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E design. The Ministry of Economy and Finance was entrusted with overall
responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation, with specific responsibility for M&E
vested in the Permanent Secretary, the Economy Director, the Budget Director, the
Treasury Director, and the Financial Controls Director, all members of the existing
Comité de Suivi des Programmes et Réformes, charged with monitoring the PRSP and
overall reform program. This arrangement had the advantage of continuity and was well-
placed to conduct dialogue with both stakeholders and development partners. The
committee was in turn advised by technical departments in Economy and Finance, the
Secretary of the CNCS with regard to procurement and the key line ministries,
Agriculture and Mines & Energy, with consultation of other ministries as required. The


                                                      18
Ministry of Economy and Finance was supposed to provide quarterly progress reports,
including information on agreed performance indicators.
M&E implementation and utilization. Implementation went fairly smoothly. All these
entities were closely involved in the preparation of the ERGG-2. Regular Bank missions
reviewed progress with Government to ensure continued implementation of the program
within a sound macroeconomic policy framework. Periodic Bank missions from the
relevant technical units of the Africa Region maintained a close dialogue with the reform
committee and the technical advisory departments. Instead of formal quarterly reports,
the Togolese authorities provided periodic documentation to the Bank showing
implementation progress against the established timetables and highlighting any issues
requiring more attention.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

ERGG-2 identified further actions to provide the underpinning of a subsequent DPO. All
except one of these actions were retained as ERGG-3 prior actions, albeit with re-
phrasing for simplification and re-formulation to reflect identified implementation
constraints (Table 4). The call for bids for the three major banks was dropped since it is a
condition under the IMF program. The implementation of the ERGG-3 prior actions is
complete, underlining Government's commitment as well as the strong linkage of
conditionality between successive ERGG operations. This enabled approval of the
ERGG-3 in May 2010.




                                            19
              Table 4: ERGG-2 Further Actions and ERGG-3 Prior Actions
    ERGG-2 Further              ERGG-3 Prior Actions             Comments                Implementation Status of
       Actions                                                                           Proposed ERGG-3 Prior
                                                                                                Actions
                                  I. IMPROVING PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Budget Formulation
1. Publicize the quarterly     Publish the 2009 quarterly   No change.                Implemented. The budget
2009 budget execution          budget execution reports;                              execution reports for 2009 have
reports; and (ii) Submit a     and submit to the                                      been publicized. The draft 2010
draft 2010 budget to the       Parliament the draft 2010                              budget was submitted to the
Parliament with a medium       budget with a medium                                   Assembly in November 2009
term expenditure               term expenditure                                       and approved on December 18,
framework (MTEF) for           framework (MTEF) for                                   together with the two sector
two priority ministries        two priority ministries                                MTEFs (Health and Education)
(Education and Health).        (Education and Health)
Budget Execution
2. Make available 75           Make available at least 80   Rephrased. No             Implemented. 80 percent of the
percent of the credit line     percent of the allocations   material change.          allocations for poverty reduction
for poverty reduction          for poverty reduction                                  activities were available by end
activities, upon               activities, upon                                       February and the remaining 20
authorization of               authorization of                                       percent were available by end
expenditures for the           expenditures for the                                   October.
priority ministries of         priority ministries by end
education, health,             February, and the final 20
agriculture, water supply,     percent by end October.
infrastructure and public
works, 90 percent by mid-
year, and the final 10                                      No material change.
percent by end year
subject to verification that                                                          Implemented The accounting
the budget is fully            Install and make                                       module is operational in the
financed.                      operational the SIGFIP                                 Treasury since January 2010.
                               information system in the
3. Extend implementation       Treasury department.
of the accounting phase of
the SIGFIP information
system to the Treasury
Department.
Budget Controls
4. Adopt and implement a       Prepare and implement a      No material change.       Implemented. The procedures
procedures manual for the      procedures manual for the    The manual does not       manual for the General Finance
General Finance                General Finance              require legal adoption.   Inspectorate was finalized in
Inspectorate;                  Inspectorate.                                          March 2009 and has been
                                                                                      implemented since then.
                                                            Reformulated. More
Adopt and implement a          Establish and make           time is required to       Implemented. The Court of
procedures manual for the      operational the Court of     prepare the manual.       Accounts is operational. The
Court of Accounts.             Accounts as evidenced by                               implementation decree of the
                               (a) the issuance of the                                Organic Law that creates the
                               implementation decree of                               Court of Accounts was issued on
                               the Organic Law that                                   April 2009 and the law that
                               creates the Court of                                   defines the status of the Court of


                                                      20
    ERGG-2 Further             ERGG-3 Prior Actions              Comments               Implementation Status of
       Actions                                                                          Proposed ERGG-3 Prior
                                                                                                  Actions
                              Accounts; (b) the                                      Accounts was adopted in June
                              adoption of the law that                               2009. An adequate budget has
                              defines the statute of the                             been allocated.
                              Court of Accounts; (c) the
                              provision of adequate
                              budget.
Public Procurement
5. (i) Establish a General Establish and make           Change necessary to    Implemented. Decrees
Procurement Department        operational the General   highlight priority for establishing the General
and make it operational as Procurement Department; ex-ante controls rather Procurement Department have
evidenced by appointment and create commissions to than ex-post audits.        been issued. Budget has been
of key staff and provision conduct ex-ante                                     allocated and staff has been
of adequate budget; and       procurement control                              identified. The ex-ante
(ii) establish, staff and     (Service de contrôle des                         procurement control
provide adequate budget       marchés publics - SCMP)                          commissions have been created
for ex-post procurement       in at least five priority                        in 5 ministries and the Lomé
audit departments             ministries and the Lomé                          Municipal Office.
(Service de contrôle des      Municipal Office.
marches publics - SCMP)
in at least five (5) priority
ministries and the Lomé
Municipal Office.
  II. STRENGTHENING GOVERNANCE AND EFFICIENCY IN KEY SECTORS ­ COTTON, PHOSPHATES AND ENERGY
Cotton Sector
6. Establish a reliable       Prepare an assessment         Reformulated due to      Implemented. The report was
management information        report on NSCT's              delays in recruitment    finalized in February 2010.
and cost accounting           management information        of a consultant to
system in the new cotton      and cost accounting           design the system.
company.                      system that proposes the      The assessment report
                              design for the new            advances the work by
                              accounting system             further developing       Implemented. The framework is
7. Adopt a regulatory         software.                     system specifications.   finalized. A workshop held
framework for the cotton                                                             January 26, 2010 validated the
sector that specifies the     Main stakeholders adopt       Reformulated for         framework, which was
roles, responsibilities and   the regulatory framework      clarity and to reflect   subsequently signed by the
obligations of sector         document for the cotton       lack of developments     stakeholders.
stakeholders in a new         sector that specifies the     in the privatization
environment potentially       roles, responsibilities and   process.
comprising private            obligations of sector
ginning companies.            stakeholders and the
                              mechanisms to make
                              effective the
                              representation of the
                              producers at the Board of
                              the NSCT.
Phosphate Sector




                                                      21
    ERGG-2 Further             ERGG-3 Prior Actions                Comments               Implementation Status of
       Actions                                                                            Proposed ERGG-3 Prior
                                                                                                    Actions
8. Establish the              Adopt the legal and             Rephrased for            Implemented. A workshop was
institutional and legal       institutional framework         simplicity. Action (c)   held December 14, 2009 to
framework for actual EITI     with the objective of           requires more time for   review the next steps for EITI
implementation with the       becoming an EITI                implementation.          candidature. The required
view to seek Candidate        candidate as evidenced by                                decrees have been approved.
Status, as evidenced by       the issuance of (a) a
(a) the creation of one or    decree creating one or
more committees at the        more committees for
national level having a       including participants
balanced representation of    from the civil society,
sector stakeholders           government and
(Extractive Industry,         extractive industry; (b) a
Government and Civil          decree nominating a
Society) and (b) the          national coordinator.
designation of a national                                                              Implemented. The report has
implementation                                                                         been published on the
coordinator; and (c) adopt                                                             government's website
and publicize a detailed                                                               (www.togoreforme.tg).
action plan and budget for
EITI activities.              No change

9. Publish the results of a
reconciliation of the 2008
revenues generated from
phosphate sales, with
revenues received by the
public Treasury.
Financial Sector
10. Launch the call for                                       Dropped since the        The financial sector reform is
bids for Government                                           conditionality is        supported by the Bank financed
shares in the four (4)                                        already present in the   Financial Sector and Governance
state-owned banks (BTCI,                                      IMF program.             TA Project.
BIA, UTB and BTD).
Energy Sector
11. Adopt an automated        Prepare a time-bound plan       Changed. More            Implemented. An arrears
tariff mechanism              for the clearance of the        analysis of a tariff     clearance plan was prepared and
consistent with an energy     public and para-public          mechanism is required    validated by the main
sector strategy to be         arrears to CEET and             due to the newly         stakeholders. All public sector
developed as part of the      identification of measures      signed power             arrears have been cleared
sector strategic review.      to prevent accumulation         purchasing agreement     through securitization and
                              of arrears in the future,(ii)   between CEET and an      measures are in place to avoid
                              clear State arrears and         independent power        new arrears.
                              obligations to CEET             producer. This
                              (either through payment         agreement creates a
                              or securitization).             new economic and
                                                              institutional
                                                              environment for CEET
                                                              operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes



                                                       22
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

ERGG-2 objectives, design and implementation were fully consistent with country
priorities as reflected in the interim PRSP and the ISN, specifically continued
implementation of measures to establish sound public finance management and
procurement and improved performance of the sectors essential to economic growth, with
measures to promote governance and restore public confidence. The ERGG-2 has
enjoyed strong support from the development partners and is fully consistent with the
goals, actions and timetables of the PRGF. The operation was backstopped by technical
assistance from bi-lateral and international donors and from the LICUS trust fund.

Design of the ERGG-2 was based on the analytical findings of recent sector and project
preparation work, as well as by Bank operations in other WAEMU countries. Its
objectives and design in terms of financial management, procurement and governance
were informed by the studies and surveys conducted preparatory to the 2009 PEMFAR
report. In terms of the sector reforms, the financial sector was underpinned by the 2006
Financial Sector Review (its findings remained both relevant and contemporary) and by
analytical work already underway in the context of the preparation of the PRSP. ERGG
prior actions (audits and reconciliation of revenues and expenditures) laid out a road map
for both the cotton and phosphates sectors which were also informed by recent Bank
experience in the sub-region, for example, by the performance of cotton companies in
Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Mali ­ a thematic focus of Bank analytical work in recent
years ­ and by the experience in implementation of the EITI (Ghana, Mauritania and
Niger). Finally, the prior and further actions in the energy sector drew upon the sector
and preparation work for the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Energy
Project. Team members with ongoing experience in the sector were part of the task team.
Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: The ERGG was aligned with
the Bank's five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.

(i) Reinforce Ownership: The ERGG-2 was fully aligned with the government's reform
program: improving public expenditure management and strengthening transparency
governance and in the key economic and financial sectors essential to growth
(phosphates, cotton, energy and finance). The ambitious breadth of the program was
justified by the strong commitment of Government to reform and the high quality of its
dialogue with the key development partners, the AfDB, the Bank and the IMF. At the
center of this dialogue was the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the champion of
reform since the re-engagement process began. The ministry team exercises strong
coordination with other key actors, notably the ministries of Agriculture and Mines &
Energy which provide technical advice in the cotton, energy and phosphates sectors.

(ii) Agree up front with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework: The program is the result of an intensive policy dialogue
conducted during 2007-08 and completed in early 2009. That dialogue had the close
involvement and support of the development partners although there was no common
policy framework. Donors participated in the PEMFAR, the Financial Sector Review, the
CPAR as well as the IMF Article IV Consultation and PRGF reviews. The program was
closely aligned with the priorities of the PRSP.


                                           23
(iii) Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances: The policy matrix reflects country circumstances, notably the high degree
of commitment to reform, progress already achieved (ERGG) and an assessment of the
implementation and absorptive capacity for reform.

(iv) Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement:
The ten prior actions for Board presentation and disbursement were identified jointly with
the Government and in close consultation with other development partners, notably the
IMF. Conditionality focused only on key actions which were critical for advancing the
Government's reform agenda. The ERGG-2's conditionality was also coordinated with
and is complementary to the Government's reform program supported by the IMF PRGF.

(v) Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-
based financial support: The Bank worked closely with the Government to help it meet
program requirements. The reforms to be considered for the ERGG-2 were clearly
spelled out under the previous operation (ERGG) and broadly adhered to. Similarly,
reforms to be supported by the ERGG-3 were clearly spelled out under the ERGG-2.
Technical assistance was provided where necessary to meet some prior actions. Where
progress on prior actions was moving too slowly due to the delays in external funding
(notably, cotton MIS measure), the prior action was deferred for consideration as a prior
action under the subsequent operation.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The ERGG-2 achieved its principal development objective of supporting and advancing
government-owned reforms to improve public financial management and restore
performance of key public enterprises and banks. It contributed to the conditions for
increased private sector and farmer confidence through measures to improve governance
and transparency in the phosphate, cotton, financial and energy sectors. Measures to
improve the management of selected public enterprises have set the scene for a reduced
fiscal burden in the sectors concerned. The financial resources provided by the grant have
also increased the fiscal space for a still debt-constrained government to develop and
maintain basic social services essential for poverty reduction. In that regard, progress
over time in the cotton sector could improve the living standards of almost half of Togo's
rural poor.

In the area of public finance management, sustained good performance demonstrates the
Government's commitment and enhanced capability of the institutions charged with
oversight and conduct of the reform, notably the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The
introduction of a functional budget classification with implementation of the 2009
budget, together with advances in the implementation of the SIGFIP, prepared the way
for better targeting of poverty expenditures and introduction of MTEFs for education and
health. Better control of revenues and expenditures was achieved by organizing core
functional activities (revenue receipts, payments) in separate departmental units, and
through the creation of the Inspection general des finances to conduct regular reviews of
major spending entities and carry out on-demand investigations. Additionally, the


                                           24
procurement law was passed and disseminated though with a delay, and the procurement
services of key ministries and the Lomé Municipal Office received training. These
measures have contributed to transparency and accountability in public finance
management. These achievements enabled 3 of the 5 PFM results indicator targets to be
met and a fourth (internal audits) to almost be met. However, no progress was made
toward meeting the fifth indicator target (ex-ante procurement audits) although this was
due to delays in the process for procuring technical assistance.

With regard to key sector reforms, results are also favorable overall, with 3 of 5 results
indicators met and a fourth partially met (electricity efficiency gains). No progress was
achieved toward the fifth indicator target (regarding cotton sector MIS) though this was
due to delays in the process for procuring technical assistance. In phosphates, public and
potential external investor confidence has been boosted by the publication of SNPT's
revenue, expenditures and transfers to the Treasury. Good progress has been made toward
Togo's accession to EITI membership, and a development strategy for the short and
medium term has been articulated. In the cotton sector, progress has been slower. The
2008 audit of expenditures and revenues led to the referral of purchasing irregularities to
the Ministry of Justice, but no further action has yet been taken. The new company began
operations, and some progress was made on the right-sizing of the work force.

In the financial sector the state banks were re-capitalized, with the sale of government
bonds to cover the exposure of non-performing loans, bringing assets up to the WAMU
prudential norm of 8 percent. Management was strengthened and better internal and
external controls were introduced. There was a strengthening of management and
strategic planning in the energy sector, with a five-year performance contract between
government and the CEET setting the scene for the reduction of line losses and outages
through better and more timely maintenance and rationalization of energy purchasing to
offset climatic and price shocks.

For the ERGG-2 program as a whole, six of the ten results targets were met, significant
progress was made on one (internal audits) and partial progress on another (electricity
losses). Due to procurement delays beyond the Government's control, two of the results
indicators could not be met. These are summarized in Table 5 below.




                                            25
                   Table 5: Status of the Anticipated Results of ERGG-2
Anticipated Results                                     Actual Outcomes
1. Improved Public Financial Management
1. PEFA indicator PI-10 (1-2 types of information,      Two types of information were published -- the
among 6, that the government makes available to         2008 budget execution report and summaries of
the public).                                            awarded public procurement contracts. The target
                                                        was achieved.
2. Management of public funds is in compliance          Complete separation of the three key Treasury
with regional good practice, with clear separation of   functions has been achieved. The target was
accounting, revenue and payment functions and           achieved.
coordination by the Treasury Director.
3. Share of planned ex-post internal audits             50 percent (4 of 8 activities) were completed as of
undertaken during the year reaches 60 percent.          December 31, 2009. The target was partially
                                                        achieved.

4. Share of contracts in three key ministries, seven    Zero, due to delay in adopting the procurement law
major public companies and the Lomé Municipal           and continuing procurement delays beyond the
Office, that are subject to prior review by the         government's control through 2009 that delayed
National Procurement Department, reaches 80             training of staff in key ministries. The target was
percent.                                                not achieved, although 50 percent of contracts in the
                                                        last quarter of 2009 were subject to prior review.
5. Frequency of publication of procurement              Published monthly on the government's web site
contracts Summaries of procurement contracts            and also disseminated to the press. The target was
published in the Chamber of Commerce and                achieved.
Industry's bi-weekly journal.
2: Strengthened Governance and Efficiency in Key Sectors ­ Cotton, Phosphate, Energy, Financial
Sectors
Cotton Sector
6. Periodicity of record keeping and information Record keeping remains irregular since the new
management is established and adhered to in the accounting system is not yet in place given the
cotton company.                                       delay in the procurement process of the consultants.
                                                      The target was not achieved.
7. Cotton producers' share of the international price The producers' price was 61 percent of the world
for cotton: 60.5 percent if production is below price. The target was achieved since production was
50,000 tons; 61.5 percent if production is between around 30,000 tons.
50,000 and 60,000 tons; and 62.5 per cent if
production is above 60,000 tons.
Phosphate Sector
8. Annual publication of phosphate revenues' Annual publication since 2008.
reconciliation.
Financial Sector
9. NPL (new loans) of the three state-owned Banks The NPL for UTB was 4.6 percent, for BTCI 1.25
(BTCI, UTB, BIA) less than 5 percent.                 percent, and for BIA 0.8 percent. The target was
                                                      achieved.
Energy Sector
10. Share of losses in CEET's electricity grid The share of losses was 19.4 percent in 2009, a
reduced by 1 percent per year.                        reduction of 0.6 percentage point relative to the
                                                      2007 target and a 2.2 percentage point improvement
                                                      relative to the extent of losses in 2008. Target
                                                      partially achieved.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


                                                    26
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ERGG-2 advanced the Government's reform agenda through the implementation of
further actions identified under the initial ERGG and other actions supported by the
LICUS trust fund. The operation also paved the way for preparation of complementary
sector operations highlighted in the Bank's Togo Interim Strategy Note, notably the
Financial Sector and Governance Project and the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Energy Project. Continued reform on such a wide swath of the public sector is
noteworthy given the fragile state of Togo's public sector and its limited capacity. Good
progress was achieved on public financial management and in the banking and
phosphates sectors, but there was little discernible impact from the cotton and energy
actions. In the financial sector, while the result regarding non-performing loans was
achieved there was partially reversal on another result (included explicitly in the initial
ERGG results framework), namely a lowering of the net worth of the largest state bank
below the prudential norm of 8 percent. The targets of six of the ten results indicators
were fully reached, while there was significant progress in meeting a seventh indicator
target and partial progress in meeting an eighth indicator target. However, there was no
progress in meeting two of the indicator targets, although this was due to delays in the
procurement process.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

None are identified.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Substantial

Togo remains a fragile state which has made less progress on political liberalization than
some of its neighbors, while public sector capacity is still weak.

Political risk: This risk is significant. The political situation has been fragile in the last 15
years and the process of political liberalization is proceeding slowly. Presidential
elections were held in March 2010 (delayed by a week because of disputed electoral lists)
and the outcome remained contested three months later, although observers reported only
limited irregularities. Continuing disputes over the results could distract the attention of
key decision-makers from steady pursuit of reform. Government was well aware of the
risks and worked over the last four years to curb resistance to reform by vested interests
which might have come into play. In addition both civic and religious authorities have
been working to promote the climate of tolerance, reconciliation and stability heralded by
the 2006 AGP (Accord Global de Politique) which set the scene for a return to normalcy.

Macroeconomic risk: Togo is likely to remain exposed to exogenous shocks in terms of
trade, volatile oil prices and climate. Arrears clearance, renewed access to external
resources and, above all, prudent macroeconomic management worked to reduce risk.
Togo's economy survived the price and climate shocks of 2007-2008 and the global
recession, emerging better prepared for managing future emergencies, especially with


                                               27
regard to food security production and, increasingly, in terms of energy through better
planning of supply and the implementation of efficiency measures.

Fiduciary risk: Implementation of the 2009 PEMFAR recommendations on public
finance management and procurement is working to reduce fiduciary risk. Government is
making effective use of new financial resources to address priorities, with better spending
controls. In the case of the ERGG-2, proceeds of the grant were deposited in a dedicated
account, with audits conducted in accordance with IDA's specifications.

Implementation capacity risk: The risk remains high, despite offsetting through technical
assistance. Togo's long period of internal instability disrupted government operations,
including staff development and staff retention which, combined with the withdrawal of
donor support, resulted in weakened capacity of the public sector. This weakened
capacity is not fully compensated for by the technical assistance being provided currently
by donors in the period since re-engagement.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

Factors influencing quality at entry were: (a) continuity in the management of the
operation and task team members fully immersed in sector issues, with good relations
with government counterparts and colleagues in the partner agencies; (b) the positive
dialogue between government, the Bank and the other key development partners ­ the
IMF and the EC ­ in the context of the preparation of the poverty reduction strategy and
review of the PRGF. This dialogue was informed by ongoing sector reform discussion
and the implementation of supporting operations, notably the Financial Sector and
Governance Project and the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Energy Project
(2008); (c) existing, strong analytical work, notably PEMFAR (in terms of financial
management and procurement) and the Financial Sector Review, both of which were
updated in 2008; (d) a solid working partnership between the Bank, the IMF, the AfDB
and the EC, with the Bank taking the lead in public finance management, procurement
and in sector reform while the IMF led on macroeconomic work and the EC met the need
for flexible ad hoc advice and lines of credit such as STABEX.

(b) Quality of Supervision
   Rating:

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Moderately satisfactory

As with all DPOs, supervision of the reform program occurred during preparation of the
proposed follow-on operation (ERGG-3). The quality of supervision was somewhat
affected by the extended temporary absence of the ERGG-2 TTL during 2009, since


                                            28
program monitoring had to be covered by the lead economist for Togo whose
responsibilities included other countries. Commencement of ERGG-3 preparatory work,
and hence supervision of Togo's economic reform program, was delayed until another
TTL was identified for the ERGG-3.

5.2 Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

Despite food and energy crises and the growing global recession, the Government
maintained fiscal discipline adjusting the budget to cover additional expenditures such as
food subsidies while maintaining overall prudent management of public finances.
Government also worked hard to create public support for reform, with broad
participatory consultation of the stakeholders on the PRSP and on sector reforms.
Continuity and growing experience in senior management was an important factor in
success. The high level national committee for reform, led by the Ministry of Economy
and Finance and comprising other key ministries, has gained several years of experience,
but it has sometimes proven more difficult to get full cooperation from parastatal
enterprises. The role of the National Assembly was important--the political parties
cooperated to review and pass legislation in a timely fashion, demonstrating the broad
political support for reform. Finally, government was open and flexible to bringing in
outside technical assistance to backstop implementation capacity. The Government fully
met six of ten results indicator targets and made significant progress in meeting a seventh
while an eighth target was partially met. On the remaining two results indicators, minimal
progress was made toward achieving the targets; however, this was due to delays in the
procurement process that were partly outside the Government's control.

6. Lessons Learned

This operation shows that significant progress can be achieved in a fragile country with
emerging commitment and ready to take action to increase transparency and good
governance. The specific lessons that can be learned from this operation include:

(i)    The maintenance of analytical work provides a strong foundation for subsequent
operations, enabling the Bank to move quickly when a window of opportunity opens. The
preparation of the PEMFAR; a multiyear series of cotton sector studies; the Financial
sector review, as well as analysis pertaining to the PRSP, all provided analytical
underpinning to ERGG-2

(ii)   Close coordination with the development partners (notably, the AfDB, the IMF
and the EC) helps mitigate risks and share responsibilities on the basis of partners'
comparative advantage.

(iii) It is important to identify a small number of strategic prior actions, implementable
within a reasonable time frame, which are difficult to reverse, driving reform forward (an
example is the publication of the contribution of phosphate revenues to the Treasury ­ an
essential step toward candidate membership in the EITI, itself a major long term



                                            29
commitment). However, the eleven further actions identified in ERGG and ERGG-2,
some with multiple components, were probably too many, given the weak capacity of the
government.

(iv)    Seeking synergies between prior actions and follow-up measures can help amplify
their effect, for example, the publication of phosphate revenues, together with the
recapitalization of the banks and the referral of irregularities in the cotton sector to the
Minister of Justice can be considered to have had a cumulative impact on the re-building
of public confidence in government, a major underlying goal of reforms to promote
transparency and better governance.

(v)     The importance of strong and stable leadership by a reform "champion" ­ in this
case, the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

(vi)   The continuity of Bank staff is important as it helps create an institutional
memory. Staff has been stable since 2005 in the case of financial sector reform, as well as
continuity and growing experience of key Government officials in both the MEF and
concerned line ministries.

(vii) The importance of arrangements for ensuring responsive technical assistance to
fill knowledge gaps or fine tune reform measures ­ the LICUS trust fund and ongoing
operations such as the financial sector and governance project are examples.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The borrower notes that the ICRR assessment and ratings could give greater weight to the
significant efforts made by the Togolese authorities in implementing their political,
economic and financial reforms in a record period of time. This point is well taken, and is
reflected in the satisfactory rating attributed to the borrower given the ICRR's required
focuses on outcomes and results. Editorial comments received by the borrower are
reflected in the ICRR.




                                            30
     Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
               Names                              Title               Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Christina A.Wood              Senior Economist                       AFTP4    Team Leader
Madani M. Tall                Country Director                       AFCF2    Team guidance
Antonella Bassani             Sector Manager                         AFTP4    Team guidance
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh            Country Manager                        AFMBJ    Team guidance
                                                                              Board presentation
Philip English                Lead Economist                          AFTP4
                                                                              and supervision
                                                                              Macroeconomic
Yvette Dan Houngbo            Economist                               AFTP4
                                                                              framework
                                                                   AFTFM at
                                                                    the time; Public expenditure
Emile Finateu                 Lead Financial Management Specialist
                                                                    now ex- management
                                                                   Bank staff
                              Financial Management                 AFTFM at Public expenditure
Hugues Agossou
                              Specialist                             the time management
Eric Yoboue                   Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPM Procurement
Itchi Ayindo                  Procurement Specialist                AFTPM Procurement
                                                                   AFTFS at
                                                                    the time;
Andre C. Ryba                 Financial Sector Specialist                     Financial sector
                                                                       now
                                                                   Consultant
Brigitte Bocoum               Senior Mining Specialist              COCPO Phosphates
Yves Duvivier                 Mining Specialist                    Consultant Phosphates
Nicolas Ahouissoussi          Sr. Agricultural Economist             AFTSD Cotton sector
Ayi Klouvi                    Agriculture Economist                  AFTSD Cotton sector
Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius       Senior Energy Specialist               AFTEG Energy sector
Franklin
                              Energy Specialist                      AFTEG Energy sector
Gbedey
Daria Goldstein               Senior Counsel                         LEGAF Lawyer
                              Senior
Wolfgang Chadab                                                      CTRFC Disbursement
                              Finance Officer
Elianne Tchapda                                                     AFTP4 Team Support, HQ
Chantal Tiko                                                        AFMTG Team Support, CO
Supervision
Marcelo R. Andrade            Sr Country Economist                   AFTP4
Itchi Gnon Ayindo             Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Charles Coste                 Sr Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Yvette Dan-Houngbo            Economist                              AFTP4
Maria Manuela Do Rosario
                              Sr Country Economist                   AFTP4
Francisco
E. Philip English             Lead Economist                        AFTP4
Franklin Koffi S.W. Gbedey    Energy Spec.                          AFTEG
Alain Hinkati                 Financial Management Specialis        AFTFM
Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin   Sr Financial Sector Spec.             AFTFW
Ayi Adamah Klouvi             Agric. Economist                      AFTAR


                                                  31
F. Alain Onibon                 Agric. Economist                     AFTAR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                               USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending

                                Total:                  37.5                 241,450.10
Supervision/ICR

                                Total:                   3.8                  25,678.08

                          Grand Total:                  41.3                 267,128.18




                                                   32
                  Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                  33
                  Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable.




                                        34
      Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The borrower noted that the ICRR assessment and ratings could have given greater
weight to the significant efforts made by the Togolese authorities in implementing their
political, economic and financial reforms in a record period of time.




                                            35
       Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      36
                         Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Back-to-Office Report November 2009, Togo: Identification of a Third Economic Recovery and
Governance Grant (ERGG III): Phosphate Sector Revitalization

Banque mondiale, Aide mémoire, novembre 2009, « Stratégie de relance et de développement du
secteur des phosphates du Togo et plan d'action »

Banque mondiale, Aide-mémoire : Mission de Revue du Programme de Reforme Economique,
septembre 2008

Banque mondiale, Aide-mémoire : Mission de Pre-évaluation ­ Deuxième Don pour la Relance
économique et la Gouvernance, décembre 2008

Banque mondiale, Aide-mémoire de l'Evaluation :Evaluation du Deuxième Don pour la Relance
économique et la Gouvernance(DREG-2), 12 mars, 2009 Washington

Ballereau, A. 2009, « Stratégie de Facilitation du Transport et du Commerce pour stimuler la
Croissance Economique », Rapport Technique de base préparé dans le cadre du Mémorandum
Economique du Pays (CEM), 2009

Gergely, N. 2009, Mission d'appui à la réforme de la filière cotonnière au Togo. Rapport
provisoire de mission sur la mise en place du cadre réglementaire et la clarification du rôle des
acteurs, Décembre 2009

Implementation Status and Results Report, (Togo, TG-P113456-ERGG-2 Credit No. IDA
H4670), December 15, 2009

International Development Association (Report No. 38146­TG) 2006, TOGO: Financial Sector
Review ­ Final Report, Africa Financial Sector Unit (AFRS), Africa Region

International Development Association ( Report No. 47975-TG) 2009, Emergency Project
Appraisal Document for a proposed Grant in the amount of SDR16.8 million (US$25million
equivalent) and a proposed GEF Grant in the amount of US$1.8 to the Republic of Togo for an
Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation & Energy Project, May 13,2009, Africa Urban
Development Sector, Country Department AFCF2, Africa Region

International Development Association, Report No. 47272-TG, Program document for a Second
Economic Recovery and Governance Grant in the amount of SDR13.6 million (US$20 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Togo, March 24, 2009

International Development Association, Report No: ICR0000130, Implementation Completion
and Results Report (IDA-h3890) on a Grant in the amount of SDR 100.9 million (US$164.4
million equivalent) to the Republic of Togo for an Economic Recovery and Governance Grant,
December 16, 2009

International Development Association, Financing Agreement (Second Economic Recovery and
Governance Grant) between the Republic of Togo and the International Development Association
(Grant Number h467-tg), April 23, 2009


                                               37
International Development Association and the International Monetary Fund, Report no. 43222-
tg, Togo: Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper,
April 17, 2008, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department AFCF2,
Africa Region

International Development Association and the International Monetary Fund, Report No. 51175-
TG, Togo: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note, November
4, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department, AFCF2, Africa
Region

International Development Association ( Report No. 43257-tg), Interim Strategy Note for the
Republic of Togo for the Period FY08-FY10, May 16,2008, Country Department for Togo,
AFCR 2, Africa Region

Minutes of the Decision Meeting on a Second Economic Recovery and Governance Grant,
February 26, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department,
AFCF2, Africa Region

Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting on a Second Economic Recovery and Governance
Grant, February 9, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department,
AFCF2, Africa Region

Projet de document, La Zone Franche : Principales Caractéristiques, Projet de document préparé
dans le cadre du Mémorandum Economique du Pays (CEM), juillet 2009

République Togolaise, Procès-verbal des négociations : Deuxième Don pour la Relance
Economique et la Gouvernance, 12 mars 2009

République Togolaise, Lettre de Politique de Développement (2009-2011), March 19, 2009

République Togolaise, Les Sources de Croissance et le Climat d'Investissement, Document du
travail pour la préparation du Document Stratégique pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté, Version
préliminaire, 17 novembre, 2008.

World Bank, Republic of Togo: Development Policy Needs Review, April 2008.




                                              38
