Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
0C>. $~ 48- /%
Report No.5494-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
March 25, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit            = Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                  = Mex$  25 in December 1981
= Mex$  55 in February 1982
= Mex$ 120 in June 1983
= Mex$ 185 in June 1984
= Mex$ 205 in March 1985
The exchange rate is currently sliding at a rate of Mex$O.21 per day against the
US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)    =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)              =  0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
AADT                     Average Annual Daily Traffic
AU                       Animal Units
CFE                      Federal Electricity Commission
CONASUPO                 National Marketing Organization for Basic Foods
COPLADE                  State Committee for Planning and Development
COPLAMAR                 General Coordination for National Plan for Marginal Areas
CUDJCUC                  Federal,/State Investment Agreements
DGAF                     Directorate General of Road Transport
DGC                      Director General for Maintenance
DGCR                     Directorate General for Rural Roads
DGP                      Directorate General for Planning
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
IVA                      Value Added Tax
JLC                      Local Roads Council
N de M                   Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico,
National Railways of Mexico
NAFINSA                  Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PEMEX                    Mexican Petroleum Monopoly
PIDER                    Integrated Rural Development Project
PLANAT                   Rainfed Agriculture Project
SAHOP                    Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH                     Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SCT                      Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SEDUE                    Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
SHCP                     Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SFP                      Secretariat of Programing and Budgeting
TDE                      State Transit Authority



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY .        ......................       ... ...              1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .        ....            ..........         .......   3
A.   Transport Developnent and the Economy              .      ....3
B.   Institutional Framework and Planning  ..........................      5
C.   The National Rural Roads Program
and Rural Development Strategy       .      ...                   5
D.   Past Bank Participation and Experience             ..... 7
E.   Bank Lending Strategy                                                 7
III. TRANSPORT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN CHIAPAS 8..         .........
A.   General Social, Economic and Geographic Setting         ...      ...  8
B.   The Transport Network of Chiapas .............. ................. 9
C.   Chiapas Road Administration ........... ... . ............... 11
D.   Rural Road Planning, Design and Construction ..........oo.....  12
E.   Rural Road Maintenance .......... ......... ..... 14
F.   Rural Transport Services ........       ........        ...16
IV.  THE PROJECT   .. .............................16
A.   Project Origin and Objectives .......................      ...... - .. 16
B.  Project Costs .......         .. . ... . . 17
C.   Rural Roads Construction Program         ......... .18
D.   Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Improvement Program       .      ..  19
E.   Consulting Services          .. .        ................. 19
F.   Economic Evaluation .         ..... .....   20
G.   Project Beneficiaries .................... .. ............ . ... 22
H.   Social and Ecological Considerations.......  22
I.   Project Risks              .. .................23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mexico
in February/March 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Gutman (Economist),
L. Schiff m   (Engineer), S. Hertel (Consultant) and F. Cancian (Environmental
Specialist) and Ms. C. Cook (Sociologist). The report has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..................... .........................  24
A.    Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation    ............... 24
B.    Procurement  .................................................... 25
C.    Disbursements  ............. ...  . ...... ....o.s.9..    26
D.    Special Account ................................................ 27
E.    Auditing ................................................................ 28
F.    Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring   ................. 28
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................                    .............. 29
TABLES
2.1  Transport Investment                    ........            **.............................. 31
2.2  Development of the Road Network ..................................... 32
2.3  SCT Highway Infrastructure Investment 1977-1984                      ..................... 33
2.4  National Rural Roads Constructiou - 1971-1983 ................... .... 34
2.5  Bank Lending to the Transport Sector                    ................................  35
3.1  Existing Chiapas Road Network ......... . .. . .               ..................... 36
3.2  Traffic Levels on Chiapas Main Highways                        ............................. 37
3.3  Division of Responsibility for Roads in Chiapas                     ..................... 38
3.4  Rural Roads Construction in Chiapas                        ................................. 39
3.5  Rural Road Design Standards: Class E Road ......................... 40
4.1  Detailed Project Costs ............                    ................................. 41
4.2  Initial Rural Road Construction Program                         ............................. 42
4.3   Initial Rural Road Rehabilitation/Improvement Program  ............... 43
5.1  Project Implementation Schedule  ...4.................................. 
5.2  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ................................. 45
ANNEXES
1.   Major Sectoral Issues               .............................. ................. 46
2.   Analysis of Rural Road Maintenance Costs  .....                  ....................... 48
3.    Proposed Inventory Format for Rural Roads                        ........................... 52
4.   Draft Terus of Reference for
Chiapas Rtural Transport Services Study ........................... 54
5.    Guidelines for Preparation of Updated SCT Manuals  ................... 57
6.    Guidelines for Economic Evaluation  .................................. 58
7.    Related Documents and Data Available in Project File  ................ 64
8.    Project Reporting Requirements  ...................................... 66
CHART
25805           - Organization of SCT ....................................... 67
MAP
IBRD 18421    - Chiapas Rural Roads Project



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Project        Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT)
Executing
Agency:
Amount:         US$22.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect        The proposed loan is being presented simultaneously with an
Description:   agriculture development project as part of the Bank's support
for the initial phase of the Government's development program
for the State of Chiapas. The Chiapas Development Plan is
designed to address the main constraints to the development of
the State and to implement economic as well as social
investments. The areas of influence of the two proposed
projects would fit well into the priority areas of the Chiapas
Development Plan.
The proposed project would support the initial stages of this
Plan through the execution of a rural roads construction,
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance program in
coordination with other simultaneous social and economic
development efforts. The project provides for:
(i) construction of about 1,000 km of rural roads;
(ii) rehabilitation and improvement of about 2,000 km of
existing rural roads; and (iii) consulting services and
related technical support to carry out detailed engineering
and upgrade the administrative and implementation capabilities
of the executing agency.
Beneficiaries: The intended beneficiaries of this project are State rural
residents lacking adequate road access.   The areas affected
would be predominantly small farm communities for which
agriculture is the main source of income. A significant
proportion of the beneficiaries are expected to be from the
State's large, ethnically distinct indigenous population. The
initial year's program would serve about 40,000 people. The
benefits would be realized through the generation of
employment during the construction period and through
increased agricultural production following construction. In
addition, local residents would benefit through improved
access to employment opportunities elsewhere in the state and
better access to, and delivery of, social services.



-2-
Risks:          The project faces the following risks:  (a) the first one
flows from the fact that the institutional framework for
coordination of Federal and State level planning and V
implementation activities under the Chiapas Program is new and
largely untested in practice.  This institutional risk maye
also have implications for the provision of adequate and
timely counterpart funding. The Government is taking steps to
improve the institutional and budgetary capabilities of the
executing agencies involved; (b) there are two types of risks
which could affect the realization of project benefits: {i)
agricultural increases may not be realized because of delay in
parallel actions such as extension services, seeds and
fertilizer provision and credit; and (ii) road employment and
construction targets may not be met because of a possible
shift to equipment-intensive methods and/or budgetary
limitations. By preparing the project in close coordination
with the parallel Agricultural Development Project and
applying relatively conservative assumptions to production
potential, this risk expressed in (i) would be minimized.
With regard to (ii), the program scope takes into
consideration the local capacity for execution and historic
couistruction levels. Also, project preparation has focused
upon defining when labor-intensive methods are most
appropriate.
Estimated Costs:                                 Local      Foreign    Total
--(US$ millions)--
I. Investment Program
Rural Roads Construction                     18.7         6.3       25.0
Rural Roads Rehabilitation/Improvement        5.2         1.7       6.9
Consulting Services and Technical Assist.   1.1           0.4       1.5
II.  Project Base Cost                            25.0         8.4       33.4
III. Price Contingencies                           6.2         2.1        8.3
Total Project Cost /1                        31.2        10.5       41.7
Financing Plan
Government                                   19.7          -       19.7
IBRD                                         11.5        10.5      22.0
Total Project Cost                           31.2        10.5      41.7
1/ Net of taxes



-3-
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
(US- millions)
Annual                            2.0      3.9     5.1      4.8     3.8     2.4
Cumulative                        2.0      5.9    11.0    15.8    19.6    22.0
Estimated      All subprojects to be financed under the loan would be
Rate of        appraised according to agreed technical, economic and social
Return:        criteria and would, in general, have a minimum estimated rate
of return of 12%.   Roads in less productive areas, serving
substantial populations but not meeting the minimum economic
criteria applying traditional evaluation procedures, would be
reviewed on a social benefits basis. For such roads, the
maximum cost per person served should not exceed US$450, and
the total cost should not exceed 15% of the rural roads
program. Rural road rehabilitation works would not require
economic evaluation, but selection of subprojects would he
based on a technical review of existing conditions, and the
confirmation of traffic and road utilization.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport Development and the Economy
2.01      Mexico has developed an extensive transport network which comprises
over 200,000 km of roads (including 67,000 km of paved and over 80,000 km of
rural roads, with the rest being state and local unpaved roads); about 20,000
km of railways (all except 500 km being standard gauge); some 33 ports, of
which 13 serve international traffic; about 50 airports capable of handling
medium or larger size aircraft; and over 20,000 km of crude oil, refined
products and gas pipelines. From 1972 to 1981, traffic on the nation's roads
grew by 10% annually, with road traffic representing an estimated 48% of
total traffic in ton-km and over 90% in passenger-km. Railway freight
traffic, representing about 14% of total ton-km, experienced a growth of 7%
annually. Even more significant growth rates were registered by coastal
shipping and ptpelines, with annual rates of between 13% and 15% in ton-km
because of increased oil production resulting in an estimated 15% and 21%
share respectively of all ton-km in 1982. After only limited growth prior to
1977, the ports registered average annual increases of almost 17X in cargo
tons handled from 1977 to 1982.  In passenger transport, domestic aviation
traffic increased by over 17% annually, with total passenger-km generally
equal to that of the railways.



2.02      During the 1960s and early 1970s, substantial amounts were invested
in transport - particularly roads, railways and aviation - with the transport
sector receiving about 20% of all public investment. With the trunk network
generally in place, emphasis shifted to operational improvements and pricing
and using transport investment to foster the development of outlying areas,
especially through the extensive rural roads construction program of the
mid-1970s. This investment policy, however, proved to be untenable with the
surge of economic activity in the late 1970s, which was accompanied by
accelerated growth in traffic in all modes. Between 1978 and 1981, serious
port and rail bottlenecks emerged, clearly affecting the operation of basic
industries and the conduct of international trade. To eliminate the
bottlenecks and improve capacity, the Government, in 1977, launched an
inportant industrial ports development program and a major track improvement
plan for the railways. Highway investment expenditures, however, were not
significantly increased, so that highways' share of transport sector
investments declined from 68% in 1972 to 44% in 1984 (Table 2.1). Although
there were instances of premature investment and some works suffered from
poor programing, the overall response of the Government to the situation in
those years was appropriate.
2.03      With the onset of severe budgetary restrictions after the recession
in 1982 and 1983, transport investment priorities had to be shifted again.
Transport investment levels, excluding urban transport, were reduced in 1984,
in real terms, to about US$1.2 billion (roughly equivalent to average 1979-80
levels), focusing on maintenance, reconstruction of existing infrastructure,
and completion of high priority ongoing works, while deferring major new
investments. The transport sector's cuts were less severe than the general
cut in public investment, however, and, therefore, its share in the total
rose from 9% in 1979 to almost 11% in 1984, the apparent rationale being the
ability of the sector to quickly generate short-term productive employment
during this critical period of economic contraction. Given the lull in
transport demand caused by the recession, this strategy is satisfactory for
the time being. Rail traffic declined 12% in 1982, highway traffic dropped
by 10 to 15% in 1983 and several industries, which experienced transport
bottlenecks in the recent past, do not anticipate difficulties in the near
future.
2.04      The major issues in the sector relate to the following: the scope
and timing of transport investments to effectively serve the economic
recovery; fuel pricing, i.e., diesel prices below international levels; road
user charges, particularly the issue of equity among types of road users;
railway tariffs which are below variable costs for many commodities;
inadequate port charges; and lack of rural road maintenance. These issues
are being treated under a number of ongoing Bank lending operations and
through the preparation of new lending operations. They are summarized in
Annex 1, and more detail is provided in the Staff Appraisal Reports for the
Second Highway Sector Project (April 1984) and the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial
Ports Project (May 1984).



-5-
B. Institutional Framework and Planning
2.05      Based on the institutional reforms of the current Administration,
all transport agencies are incorporated under the Secretariat for
Communications and Transport (SCT) (Chart 25805). A Subsecretariat for
Infrastructure in SCT handles infrastructure development for almost all
transport, and a Subsecretariat for Operations has responsibility for
operational, regulatory and tariff matters. A Directorate General for
Planning (DGP), which reports directly to the Secretary, is in charge of
overall planning and budget preparation. Planning units within the various
modal directorates are responsible for identifying and proposing capital
investments and provide the technical details required for the analysis of
such investments. DGP, in turn, has responsibility for carrying out the
economic feasibility analysis and providing a multimuodal consistent analytic
framework for the preparation of the medium- and long-term investment
programs. With the recent institutional reorganization of the sector, SCT is
upgrading its planning procedures and criteria, and the Bank is providing
assistance to this effort under various ongoing transport loans (1929-HE and
1964-ME). To assure continuity, further assistance will be provided under
the recently approved Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME) and the
Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Ports Project (Loan 2450-ME).
2.06      In addition to SCT, the Secretariat for Programing and Budgeting
(SPP) plays an important role in ensuring consistent modal planning. The
Directorate for Public Infrastructure of SPP must approve the proposed SCT
investment and operating budgets and conducts a serious review of all major
investments in the sector. Although small, this unit has proven effective
and capable during the first years of this Administration. For rural
development, including rural roads construction, overall investment levels
are determined by the Subsecretariat for Regional Development of SPP in order
to properly integrate various investment and service programs. Last, in an
attempt to decentralize planning decisions and stimulate local participation,
State Planning Committees (COPLADES) have been established in each state.
Representatives of the three levels of Government constitute the committees,
with the State Governor as chairman and the Regional SPP Delegate as
technical secretary. These committees are to formulate and to propose
annually, to the Federal and State Governments, the investment, expenditure
and financing programs for the state. The initial experience and influence
of these committees vary, and an effort is being made to strengthen them in
order to prepare and oversee the execution of regional development plans such
as the Plan Chiapas (para 4.01).
C. The National Rural Roads Program and Rural Development Strategy
2.07      Prior to 1970, Mexico's road-building program was directed at
developing the federal and state trunk network, while rural access was
largely ignored. In 1970, of a total of 71,500 km of roads in the country
(excluding rural tracks and trails), only 8,500 km, or 12%, were rural access
roads (Table 2-2). As a result, some 90,000 communities 1/ lacked
1/ 82,000 communities with 500 or fewer inhabitants and 8,000 with over 500
inhabitants, representing 91% of the communities in Mexico.



all-weather access to the trunk network and the national economy. With the
change in administration that year, rural development was given greater
priority, and new strategies were accordingly reviewed and revised with the
objectives of better integrating the many small subsistence farmers into the
economy, stimulating economic growth in rural areas and providing short-term
employment. A new rural electrification program was initiated, agricultural
credit programs were enlarged, the role of the agricultural price support and
marketing agency (CONASUPO) was expanded, and new Agrarian Reform and Water
Laws were passed. In 1973, the PIDER program 2/ was initiated, and it
focused upon coordinated investment strategies7for rural micro-regions.
Other programs were instituted during the rest of the decade for various
reasons, but all were designed to direct aid to the rural areas (e.g.,
COPLAMAR, CUC, and PLANAT 3/).
2.08      A key element in the rural development strategy was the improvement
of rural access, especially to areas with population concentrations of over
350 people. Since 1970, the construction of rural roads has been executed
and financed by a variety of agencies. The principal executing agency was
the former Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP), but
SCT now carries out the program through the Directorate General for Rural
Roads (DGCR) and rural road departments in its state offices.   Rural road
construction rose to over 30% of the total SAHOP road investment (Table 2.3),
and SAHOP, along with the PIDER organization and the state road agencies,
constructed almost 80,000 km from 1971 to 1983, with the rate of annual
construction reaching as high as 15,000 km in 1973 and remaining relatively
steady at about 5,000 km per year since 1975, until 1982 when the
construction levels declined (Table 2.4). In addition, the Secretariat for
Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) has constructed thousands of
kilometers of roads, mainly farm service roads, as part of its investment
programs.
2.09      In terms of construction, the progress of this intensive effort has
been remarkable, and the lessons learned in organization, community planning,
design criteria, construction techniques and training have been referred to
in the planning of rural roads programs throughout the world. While new
construction has declined to about 12% of the road investment budget, it is
apparent that the Government must turn its attention to better maintenance
and rehabilitation, an area which has been ignored until recently
(para 3.23).
2.10      As for economic dievelopment consequences, the results are mixed; no
formal monitoring mechanism has been established. Various studies have found
that specific roads had a significant positive effect 4/, but agricultural
2/ Integrated Rural Development Project.
3/ General Coordination for National Plan for Marginal Areas, Federal/State
Investment Agreements, Rainfed Agricultural Project.
4/  Frank Cancian, Change and Uncertainty in a Peasant Economy, Stanford
University Press, 1972; Robert Wasserstrom, Class and Society in Central
Chiapas, University of California Press, 1983; and World Bank Study of
Rural Mobility and Communications in Mexico, Draft Final Report, 1981.



production as a whole in Mexico did not surge during the period of rural road
construction. Mexico's basic crops, such as maize, beans, wheat, rice,
sorghum and sugarcane, registered annual rates of growth from 1.5% to 2.5%
over the 1970s, well below the population growth rate. The hlame has heen
attributed to inappropriate Government intervention in price setting and
marketing in an attempt to protect consumers from increasing food prices.
Export crops, however, such as coffee, fruits and vegetables, were relatively
free of Government intervention and registered an annual growth rate of 12%
up to 1979, when the overvaluation of the peso affected export markets. The
new Administration has reoriented agricultural policies. Most important, it
has allowed substantial increases in guaranteed farm prices, consistent with
international prices. Also, multi-sectoral regional investment plans, such
as the project in Chiapas, are expected to better optimize the mix of
investments and to stimulate local participation, all crucial to generating
projected road-related benefits.
D.   Past Bank Participation and Experience
2.11      The Bank has had an extensive involvement in the Mexican transport
sector (Table 2.5). Nine highway loans have been made, focusing upon the
trunk network, the first in 1960 and the ninth (a Second Highway Sector
Project - Loan 2428-ME) in 1984. There have been four railway loans, with
the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 1929-ME) in execution. In addition, there
have been three port loans, including a port preparation loan in 1981 (Loan
1964-ME) for the industrial ports project and the recently approved Lazaro
Cardenas Industrial Ports Project - Loan 2450-ME. For air transport, an
airport loan (Loan 1022-ME) was made in 1974 and completed in 1982. As
expressed in Project Completion Reports (e.g. for the Seventh Highway
Project, issued June 22, 1982), although the quality of works executed is
satisfactory, cost increases, construction delays and insufficient budget
allocations have generally resulted in delayed completion of Bank projects.
2.12      Rural roads construction has received Bank financing tinder
agricultural projects, but not under transport projects. Most of such roads
were built by SARH and were farm service roads, not community access roads
which were more typical of the main rural roads program.  Bank agricultural
projects have supported the PIDER program, which included community access
roads. It was the reviews of the PIDER projects which identified transport
issues that could best be handled under specific transport lending,
particularly with regard to road selection criteria and maintenance budgets
and practices. Thus, it was considered appropriate to prepare a rural roads
project in parallel with an agricultural development project in order to
continue the integrated development framework of earlier projects, while
allowing for a more focused treatment of important transport issues.
E. Bank Lending Strategy
2.13      The Bank's role in the transport sector has heen expanded because
of the measures taken by the Government on issues which have heen of concern
to the Bank during its long standing involvement in the sector, particularly
with regard to sector pricing (Annex 1) and institutional reorganization
(para 2.05). The sector lending strategy, in accordance with the Bank's
overall objectives for lending to Mexico, is to develop relatively quick
disbursing loan operations which focus upon short-term investment in
maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization, and upon making prior



-8-
investments operational while assisting the Government, through the new
Planning Directorate, in reassessing the medium- and long-tern need for major
new investments. Furthermore, a constructive dialogue on sector policies has
been initiated between the Bank and the Government which wouli :e supported
through the Bank's lending and sector work program.
2.14      The proposed rural roads project has a more limited focus and
represents, together with the proposed agriculture project for Chlapas, a
pilot effort to support comprehensive regional development. As with other
lending operations to the sector, this project attempts to achieve a better
balance between new investment and maintenance and rehabilitation. It is
expected that the lessons of this project will serve as the basis for other
regional development plans being prepared, as well as for the national rural
roads program in general.
III. TRANSPORT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN CHIAPAS
A. General Social, Economic and Geographic Setting
3.01      The state of Chiapas is in the southeast of Mexico, on the border
with Guatemala, and has an area of about 74,000 km2 with a population of
about 2.3 million. About one-third of the population is estlmated to live in
urban areas (centers with more than 2,500 inhabitants), and the remaining
two-thirds in rural areas, an opposite relationship to the national
population distribution. It has two principal cities: Tuxtla Gutierrez, the
capital, with a population of 180,000; and Tapachula, with about 150,000.
The rest of the population is generally dispersed among small villages and
farm clusters. Economically and socially, it is one of the least developed
states in the country. Although less than 15% of the land is cultivated,
agriculture accounts for 36% of the State's gross national product (GNP).
Another 33% of the state's GNP pertains to industry, primarily petroleum and
hydro-electricity, the benefits of which have not directly accrued to the
local population.
3.02      The state can be divided into four distinct regions, demarcated
according to geography, climate and communications networks:
(a)  The Pacific Tropical Coastal Plain is a helt averaging 30 ki in
width, covered by generally poorly drained alluvial soils. It is
separated from the rest of the state by the Sierra Madre mouintain
range, with peaks rising to over 4,000 m above sea level. Although
this area has high agricultural potential, drainage prohlems have
limited much of the land to grazing;
(b)  The Central Depression extends from Guatemala to Oaxaca on the
inland side of the mountains. It has a semi-tropical climate and
rises from 400 m to 1,000 m ahove sea level.  It is the most
agriculturally productive area, principallv maize and beans;
(c)  The Central Highlands (Los Altos) are located to the northeast of
the Central Depression. rising 1,500 m to 2,500 m. It is the most
densely populated area, with about 2'0,000 of the State's 4no,on0
indigenous population, and is noted for the scarcity of cultivable
land; and



- 9 -
(d)  The Tropical Rainforest (Selva) is in the eastern section of the
State. It is sparsely populated and contains some of the last
remaining tropical rainforest in North America. The area is
becoming more and more threatened by spontaneous migration and
slash-and-burn agriculture.
3.03      The state of Chiapas is one of the pooret. in Mexico, with a
per-capita income of about US$350, compared with the national average of
US$2,250. Statewide, poverty is prevalent and malnourishment among children
is widespread, with a child mortality rate (between the ages 1 and 4) of 85.2
deaths per thousand children as compared with 42.9 for the nation. The
population has the highest illiteracy rate (34%) compared to the national
average of 20%, and more than 10% of the people speak only local native
dialects. Piped water covers about 45% of the households and electricity,
50X, but these facilities are concentrated in the urban centers. One of the
main obstacles to improving the social, as well as the economic, environment
has been the difficult terrain and climatic conditions which hinder access to
the widely dispersed population. The problem is compounded by the fact that
a large portion of the population, particularly in Los Altos, lives in
relatively non-productive areas and would have to travel out of the villages
for gainful employment. In addition, there has been a significant iniflow of
Guatemalan refugees, complicating the fragile social and economic situation.
3.04      Maize is the principal crop of Chiapas, with about 1.2 million tons
produced per year on about 500,000 ha. The state of Chiapas is also the
leading producer of coffee and bananas in Mexico, with about 125,000 tons and
300,000 tons respectively, and is also a major producer of cotton, sugarcane,
soybeans and fruits. There are an estimated 4.3 million head of cattle,
producing 114,000 tons of beef and 200,000 tons of milk, as well as
significant numbers of sheep, pork and poultry. The state produces an
estimated 23,500 tons of fish annually and has 4.0 million ha of forest (most
of it virgin), producing 280,000 m3 of timber per year. The main constraints
to increasing production are lack of proper drainage, limited extension and
other agricultural services, lack of storage and inadequate transport access.
B. The Transport Network of Chiapas
3.05      The transport network of Chiapas consists mainly of about 8,600 km
of roads, including 2,840 km of paved roads (Table 3.1), one Pacific Coast
port, 540 km of railway lines, and two major airports (Map IBRD 18421). The
construction of the network is relatively recent, with major highway
connections, such as Huixtla-Comalapa (financed under Loan 968-ME),
Comitan-Altamirano and Ocosingo-Palenque roads, completed in the last five
years. Most of the rural roads network of 4,000 km was constructed over the
last ten years. Puerto Madero was completed in 1975, and the present
Tuxtla Gutierrez and Tapachula airports were completed in 1982 (financed
under Loan 1022-ME). The network is still sparse, as evidenced by the fact
that an estimated 500,000 people are without all-weather access.
3.06      The Pacific Coast port, Puerto Madero, was originally constructed
to support an expected increase in banana exports (130,000 tons of bananas
projected for 1975). By 1980, total traffic was at 12,000 tons, mostly
cement and fertilizer imports, and the port, with its 151 m berth and 1,600 m
access channel with a depth of aboat 33 feet, is severely under-utilized.



- 10 -
The port also has a fishing dock with a 3GO-boat capacity, but has been
unable to compete with other more developed ports, such as Salina Cruz, in
terms of unloading facilities, processing plants and marketing channels.
Future forecasts do not foresee significant increases in traffic for Puerto
Madero.
3.07      With the construction of the Tuxtla Gutierrez and Tapachula
airports, now serving B-737 aircraft, along with existing smaller airports at
Comitan and Palenque and some 90 other landing strips, the air transport
network is relatively complete. Weather conditions at the Tuxtla Gutierrez
airport, however, often result in closures and substantial delays as well as
uncertainty, as traffic is diverted to Tapachula or Villahermosa in the state
of Ta!.6co.  To minimize these problems, the installations of instrument
landing systems and other navigational aids are being studied. Also, Comitan
is being considered for further expansion in light of the expected economic
development of that area.
3.08      Two railway lines serve Chiapas:  the Coatzacoalcos-Merida line of
the Ferrocarril del Sureste (recently incorporated into N de M) extends
210 km across the northern part of the state; the second line is the 330 km
of N de M from Salina Cruz to Tapachula and Guatemala along the Pacific
Coast. Tapachula and Arriaga are the two main freight centers for the line,
with terminal facilities and switching yards. The Tapachula line, in 1982,
handled from 212,000 to 647,000 net tons of varied products, with the highest
concentration of traffic on the line from Arriaga, west. Any investment
should be limited to improved maintenance and rehabilitation.
3.09      Road transport is the principal transport mode for Chiapas.  The
three main axes are the Pan-American Highway, running from the Oaxaca state
border through Tuxtla Gutierrez to Ciudad Cuauhtemoc at the Guatemala border;
the Pacific Coastal Highway, from Oaxaca through Arriaga and Tapachula to
Ciudad Hidalgo at the Guatemala border; and North Highway 195, running
north-south from the Tabasco state border to Ixtapa and Escopetazo on the
Pan-American Highway east of Tuxtla Gutierrez (Table 3.2). While, in 1970,
much of the rest of Mexico lacked only rural roads (para 2.07), Chiapas still
faced the problem of a limited trunk network. Prior to the completion of the
Huixtla-Comalapa road in 1981 (Loan 968-ME), traffic from the fast-growing
Comalapa area had to travel via Tuxtla Gutierrez aad Arriaga to get to
Tapachula, a distance of 569 km, as compared with 243 km on the new road.
PEMEX and the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) built their own roads to
permit oil exploration in the north and construction of the hydroelectric
facilities in the Central Depression. Rural roads noney was directed at
finishing the State's trunk network, resulting in many low-standard roads
with significant traffic volumes.
3.10      Transport investment needs in the state are concentrated in the
road subsector. The needs include completing the trunk network, particularly
the Valdivia-Mapastepec road (providing a direct connection between the main
production areas of the Central Depression and the Pacific Coastal highway to
Tapachula) and the Ocosingo-Palenque road; the upgrading of low-standard
roads with high traffic, especially in the Central Depression; the
modernization of existing federal trunk roads, including widening and
rehabilitation; improved rehabilitation and maintenance of existing rural
roads; and the extension of the rural roads network to potentially productive
areas and outlying communities. In addition, the Government has placed



- 11 -
strategic importance on the Fronteriza road, a road skirting the Guatemala
border through the rainforest area. This road is presently being reassessed
on environmental grounds to determine an alignment which will minimize the
effects upon environmentally protected areas. These needs, with regard to
the federal and state trunk network, are adequately treated in SCT's
indicative 1984-1988 investment program, taking into account the overall
national budgetary restrictions. Rural road investment needs are discussed
in paragraph 4.05. To help to determine future investment requirements for
all modes, the Government agreed, at negotiations, to carry out a review of
the transport investment priorities in the State and complete a road master
plan for Chiapas not later than December 31, 1986.
C. Chiapas Road Administration
3.11      The division of technical and finaacial responsibilities for
selecting, designing, executing and maintaining the various roads in Chiapas
is complex (Table 3.3) and has developed as a result of the different road
investment programs which were started by federal, state and quasi-public
entities. The principal road-building agencies include: SCT, through its
local state office (Centro SCT); the Local Roads Council (JLC), a state
agency for state trunk, feeder (alimentadoras) and rural roads in the CUC/CUD
program, a federal revenue sharing program; PIDER, with direct funding from
SPP for rural roads in PIDER micro-regions; and other entities such as PEMEX,
the national oil company, SARH and CFE which build roads relating to their
major investment projects. Coordination is to be provided by COPLADE, and
the COPLADE committee of road agencies, with SCT as technical adviser,
reviews the overall program to avoid redundancy. Although the existing road
network which resulted from the various programs is appropriate, the
geographic patchwork of responsibility appears to be causing inefficiencies
in supervision and maintenance. The most serious concern is that of the
differing maintenance policies and capabilities of the entities.
3.12      As the trunk network nears completion and investments focus more
upon upgrading and rehabilitation, the network is being consolidated under
SCT and JLC. Consolidation of the rural or tertiary roads program
(para 3.16) is also occurring, with SCT concentrating upon community access
rural roads (connections between the trunk network and population centers);
SARH concentrating upon farm service roads to the fields; and JLC
concentrating mainly upon urban roads. Road planning and identification of
-wnrks are generally initiated at the local level by Centro SCT and JLC. For
federal trunk roads, the priorities identified by Centro SCT are reviewed in
Mexico City, and final budget allocations for specific works are determined
by the Directorates General for Planning and for Federal Road Construction.
Major federal projects, the Fronteriza in Chiapas, for example (para 3.13),
are often initiated at the federal level in Mexico City. Rural road
priorities are generally established at the state level, while budget
allocations among states are set in Mexico City (para 3.15).
3.13      Federal trunk road investment in Chiapas was reviewed under the
Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME) and found to be appropriate.
The Fronteriza, however, is being built as a strategic road to facilitate
monitoring the Guatemalan border and could not be justified solely on
economic grounds. Its total cost represents about 2.5Z of the overall
Mexican road investment 1984-1988. In 1984, SCT spent about Mex$ 775 million
(US$4.4 million) equivalent, excluding the Fronteriza, on trunk roads in



- :2 -
Chiapas, or 2% of its national construction and modernization budget. The
state spent Mex$ 119 million (US$1.0 million equivalent) in 1983, mostly on
upgrading works to pave high traffic gravel roads, and these works are
expected to be continued in 1984.
3.14      Centro SCT in Chiapas and JLC are effective, adequately staffed,
road organizations with substantial experience in road design, supervision,
construction and maintenance. The organization of Centro SCT mirrors that of
the Subsecretariat of Infrastructure in Mexico City with separate offices for
federal road construction, rural roads construction, maintenance, airports,
and programing.
D. Rural Road Planning, Design and Construction
3.15      Under the various construction programs, about 1,800 km of rural
roads were built between 1977 and 1983, excluding SARR roads (Table 3.4).
The average annual rate of construction is about 250 km per year, of which
about 200 km pertain to SCT and PIDER. The method of selection of road
projects has been largely ad hoc, and, although each federal program on paper
has specific objectives for selecting roads, in practice, the roads proposed
by the local communities are distributed among the agencies, depending mainly
upon available budgets and, in the case of PIDER, whether they are located in
a PIDER micro-region. Judgment is used to eliminate proposed roads which
serve very small farm clusters (e.g., less than 350 affected inhabitants)
and/or which are very costly. Except for SARR roads, Centro SCT must give
its approval to each agency's program, and is usually concerned that
acceptable design standards will be applied, because SCT will later have
maintenance responsibilities (para 3.22). The final decision for all
agencies rests with COPLADE, the State's planning and budgetary review
committee, on which the Governor serves as chairman. Although SCT and
COPLAMAR, in Mexico City, review the rural roads list for the COPLAMAR
projects, the review appears to be cursory.
3.16      While the Federal Government has taken action to consolidate the
various rural roads programs, so that SCT will have primary responsibility
for construction and COPLADE for identification, the problem remains that
there is no consistent methodology or set of criteria for selecting roads and
establishing priorities. Initially, the road needs of Chiapas were so great
that the most important sections were relatively obvious and the Bank's
review of many of the roads which were built showed that, in general, the
selections were logical and the design standards appropriate. As the road
needs turn to lower volume access roads to the more dispersed villages and
farm clusters, the local road requests still exceed the budget levels, and
the feasibility and priority rankings are not as obvious. If decentraliza-
tion is to be pursued, the need for reasonable selection criteria will be
even more crucial in order to countermand the local political pressures which
will be brought upon the Governor, COPLADE and the road agencies. What is
needed is to standardize, formalize and monitor the collection of social and
economic information, to establish procedures for the processing of that
information and to set minimum social and economic criteria for the final
selection of projects (paras 4.10-4.14).
3.17      Centro SCT has had long experience in planning, design and
construction of rural roads of the type and extent included in this project,
in administering associated construction contracts and in carrying out such



- 13 -
works through force account methods. SCT has maintained a sufficient number
of qualified staff who, together with local consultants, produce satisfactory
results of high professional standard. Rural roads constructed by SCT are
designed to Class E standards with a 4 m wide platform (Table 3.5). These
design standards are reasonable, and they are not strictly adhered to if they
would lead to excessive costs in difficult terrain. Average construction
cost per km in 1985 prices is about US$25,000 equivalent, which is
appropriate considering the difficult terrain, soil and climatic conditions.
There is, however, a lack of consistency between SCT and SARH rural road
design standards. In the interests of economy and efficiency, it is
important that rural roads constructed by SCT and SARH be designed,
constructed and maintained to the same standards. In order to promote this
objective, the Government confirmed at negotiations, that it will, by
December 31, 1987, carry out a review of the construction and maintenance
practices regarding rural roads in the state under the jurisdiction of SCT
and SARH, with a view to further rationalizing rural roads designs,
specifications, construction methods and maintenance practices, and
assignment of maintenance responsibilities between agencies.
3.18      As with the national rural roads program, the rural roads program
in Chiapas, in the early 1970s, was executed mainly by force account using
labor-intensive methods 5/. The emphasis of the program gradually changed,
and, by the late 1970s, most roads were built by contractors using light
equipment. Part of the reason behind this shift was the quickly increasing
cost of labor as the economy surged, compared with the slower increase in
equipment and fuel costs. With the economic recession and the maxi-
devaluations in 1982, the trend was reversed again, and the Government
focused upon job creation, particularly for rural areas. In 1983, SCT began
to distinguish between those roads which could be carried out by labor-
intensive methods because of terrain as well as local labor availability, and
those roads which required equipment or a mixed technology. In Chiapas,
about one-third of the works in 1983 were built using labor-based methods.
3.19      It is estimated that wages for unskilled labor comprise 40-50% of
total costs using labor-based methods versus less than 15% using equipment-
based methods. SCT has considered the possibility of using contractors to
carry out labor-based construction, but the approach does not appear feasible
because of the large amount of under-utilized equipment available and the
time constraints of the private contractor. Government-supervised force
account works can be flexible in terms of work schedules and manpower,
allowing workers to serve in shifts, or only during certain months of the
year, to avoid conflicts with planting and harvest schedules. Although, in
1983, labor-based works averaged 80% of the cost per km of equipment based
construction, if the value added tax is excluded and the terrain conditions
are taken into account, the average financial costs for equipment-based
construction may, in fact, be lower. In addition, in most cases,
labor-based construction methods, as practiced in Chiapas, result in a
product of lower quality than does equipment-based construction. Thus,
labor-based methods are preferred only in selective cases. SCT needs to
5/ The original program was called Caminos de Mano de Obra or -Labor-Based
Roads."



- 14 -
provide more guidance to field engineers, through updated manuals, in
determining the comparative costs of labor versus equipment-based
construction and in selecting the appropriate technology for specific works,
considering possible tradeoffs between financial costs and social and
economic gains (para 4.08).
3.20      For equipment-based, or so-called "mixed" construction, SCT awards
contracts based on local competitive bidding (LCB). The contractors are
usually locally based firms, or national firms with branch offices in
Chiapas. All works are based upon unit price contracts, whose terms include
provision for price escalation and are generally satisfactory. Contractor
capacity has been ample, and bids have been reasonable.
3.21      Compaction equipment (rollers) is almost never used in the
construction of rural roads. The only compaction is done by the passing of
the contractors' equipment and vehicles. With labor-based construction
methods, the normal practice is to employ compaction with manual rammers and
similar equipment only where critically needed (fills around culverts, parts
of steep slopes, etc.). Current practice should be modified to use
compaction equipment wherever it may be of importance for the durability of
the road, since its use would significantly reduce washouts and subsequent
maintenance needs. The increase in construction costs from using compaction
equipment on the subgrade and the surface gravel layer would increase the
construction cost by no more than about 5-7%. SCT would provide guidance to
field engineers, through updated manuals, in the use of compaction equipment
in this connection, and Centro SCT would carry out some pilot project
exercises in Chiapas under the project, to improve, inter alia, compaction
techniques (para 4.08).
E. Rural Road Maintenance
3.22      Presently, Centro SCT Chiapas is responsible for maintaining about
4,200 km of rural roads, including the CUD and PIDER roads, and 1,600 km of
federal roads. nC maintains a total of 1,700 km of state and feeder roads,
of which 700 km are paved, 800 km are gravel roads and the remainder are
earth roads. Centro SCT administers the maintenance of roads through its
Directorate for Maintenance (DGC), with five district offices (residencias)
for federal roads and four district offices for rural roads, each further
divided into three subdistricts. JnC carries out its maintenance activities
through 12 district offices. A number of roads built by other agencies are
receiving sporadic maintenance. SARH has also proposed the transfer of 500
km of its roads to SCT for maintenance. Under the project, the Government
will review construction and maintenance practices regarding rural roads in
Chiapas and develop a plan to allocate responsibilities in order to ensure
effective maintenance (para 3.17).
3.23      Rural road maintenance is lacking in Chiapas as well as
nationwide. Since 1971, the Government's attention has been directed toward
the construction of rural roads with minimum design standards. With over
80,000 km built in a decade, the requirements for maintenance, particularly
periodic maintenance, spot improvements and rehabilitation have accumulated
rapidly. Field inspections of the Chiapas network confirmed the declining
condition of the roads. In certain cases, new construction works cannot be
initiated until existing sections, which provide access to the new works, are
rehabilitated. The basic deficiency is inadequate budgets. The SCT
maintenance budget for Chiapas, in 1983, was equivalent to US$300 per km, an
increase of 88% over the 1982 budget, and was still not sufficient to meet



- 15 -
501 of the maintenance needs. It is estimated that, in Chiapas, the average
annual cost of appropriate routine and periodic maintenance is about US$875
equivalent per km, of which about 50% represents periodic and emergency
maintenance (Annex 2). Taking into account deferred needs, it is expected
that average budgetary levels per km should he even higher. The Government
recognizes the problem and, for 1984, budgeted Mex$ 285 million (US$400 per
km equivalent) for SCT in Chiapas. On a national level, SCT has projected
substantial real increases in its 1985-1988 investment program for rural road
maintenance and rehabilitation, reaching about US$750 equivalent per kin by
1988. During that period, the Government is also expected to permit more
flexibility in the use of the rural roads construction budget in order to
meet deferred rehabilitation requirements. At negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it will provide adequate resources to meet rural road
maintenance requirements in Chiapas, including annual routine maintenance of
all rural roads within the SCT network. In addition, sufficient funds will
be provided to carry out an average of 350 km per year of rehabilitation and
spot improvements in 1985-1987, gradually increasing to 500 km per year by
1988. This provision would cepresent an annual budget of US$700 per km
equivalent by 1988.
3.24      As maintenance budgets are increased, it will also be necessary to
improve road inventory and project identification procedures. A new rural
road inventory format has been agreed to with SCT's Directorate for
Maintenance and is being applied in selected states (Annex 3). In Chiapas,
the initial coverage for the road inventory has now been completed. At
negotiations, the Government agreed to update the inventory on an annual
basis.
3.25      Each SCT district office has four pick-ups and three dump trucks at
its disposal . In addition, two districts have one front-end loader and a
small grader, and one district has a small bulldozer. The SCT equipment
(with an average age of 6-7 years for vehicles, about 10-12 years for other
equipment) is old, about half being beyond what is considered a normal
economic life. SCT is trying to keep the equipment working much longer
through an extensive equipment reconstruction program. The present
availability rate of the equipment is only about 602, and Centro SCT's main
workshop in Tuxtla Gutierrez is only able to carry out preventive
maintenance, with major repairs being performed in private sector workshops.
Subject to the availability of necessary budgetary allocations, sufficient
equipment rehabilitation work will be carried out over the next two years to
bring the availability rate to about 80%. Nevertheless, SCT, to a large
extent, will continue to rent equipment from the private sector at fixed
rates. No difficulty or inconvenience is apparent from this system, and no
major increase in the fleet is recommended while equipment is available for
renting at reasonable prices.
3.26      Routine maintenance is, whenever feasible, carried out in
collaboration with the municipality/community benefiting from the road. In
that case, an agreement (convenio) is entered into between the two parties.
This agreement specifies that the particular road (section) will be included
under the SCT maintenance program and that the community will participate
with unskilled labor either without pay or, as is generally the case, at a
rate corresponding to 50% of the minimum salary. In an increasing number of
cases, it is not possible to reach an agreement, either because the community
may not perceive that it is a main beneficiary of the road or because there



- 16 -
are more profitable job opportunities in the neighborhood (e.g., near
Tuxtla). In such cases, SCT would normally still accept the maintenance
responsibility. Budgetary allocations would need to reflect such situations.
F. Rural Transport Services
3.27      Transport services in Chiapas are provided largely by the private
sector. The registered vehicle fleet in the state is estimated at about
60,000, or one vehicle for every 35 inhabitants. This motorization rate is
one of the lowest in Mexico. Public transport services are provided by more
than 3,000 vehicles, about evenly divided between automobiles (taxis), buses,
and trucks (including the popular "co-nbi" or light mixed passenger/freight
vehicle). Input distribution and collect'on of crops are done largely by
federal agencies. However, their trucks generally operate only on the
improved road network. Seasonal goods transport on the unimproved network is
accomplished by small private operators whose vehicles are registered for
own-account transport.  Non-motorized transport (carts and pack animals) is
still important in many areas.
3.28      Providers of public transport on the federal network are registered
with SCT's Directorate General for Road Transport (DGAF), the federal
regulatory agency. There are over 60 such enterprises registered in
Chiapas. Most are large companies owning substantial numbers of trucks or
buses. Private transport of freight over federal highways also requires a
permit from DGAF. Transport on state and rural roads is regulated by the
State Transit Authority (TDE). Authorized freight tariffs and passenger
fares on rural roads take into account variations in road surface type, so
that the benefits of rural roads improvements involving a change in surface
type are at least partly passed on to consumers. Rurol taxi services are
essentially unregulated. Many own-account truckers also informally provide
freight and passenger transport services.
3.29      Institutionally, the transport services seetor appears strong and
adequately organized. Regulatory solutions to problems on the state and
federal highway network are sought through a participatory planning process
in which the various interest groups involved are represented. However,
little is known about the transport services provided on unimproved or
recently improved rural roads, and how these services may affect the way in
which the benefits of road improvements are passed on to rural residents.  To
fill this gap, it was agreed at negotiations that the Government will carry
out a study of rural transport services to be completed by December 31,
1986. Draft terms of reference are provided in Annex 4.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Objectives
4.01      To help define a comprehensive development strategy for Chiapas, a
multisectoral Bank mission was sent to Mexico in late 1981, at the request of
the Government, and reviewed the social and economic potential and problems
of the state. The recommendations of the joint Bank/Government working group
formed the basis for the Chiapas Development Program (Plan Chiapas)
officially adopted by the Government in May 1983. Two priority elements were



- 17 -
selected which are crucial to the initial stages of the Program and which
provided an appropriate instrument for Bank financing: agricultural
development and rural roads. Two projects, the Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project and the Chiapas Rural Roads Project, have thus been
prepared in parallel.
4.02      The proposed Rural Roads Project would support the development of
Chiapas through the implementation of a rural roads construction,
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance program coordinated with
simultaneous agricultural and other social and economic development efforts.
The project would provide for: (a) the construction of about 1,000 km of
rural roads; (b) the rehabilitation and improvement of approximately 2,000 km
of existing rural roads; and (c) related consulting services for detailed
engineering and technical assistance. The selected roads would provide
improved access to rural areas to reduce costs and increase production and/or
to population centers which require improved access for the efficient
provision of social services and for better access to employment
opportunities. Where appropriate, the project would promote the use of
labor-based construction techniques to offer increased employment
opportunities for unemployed and underemployed local residents.
4.03      To ensure the full realization of expected benefits, the Rural
Roads Project would also focus upon Government efforts to:
(a) strengthen state planning and decision-making capabilities in
Chiapas;
(b) improve planning, programing, construction, rehabilitation,
improvement and maintenance programs for rural roads in Chiapas;
(c) assess rural transport services for freight and passengers in
Chiapas; and
(d) extend lessons learned in Chiapas to other states.
B.   Project Costs
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$41.7 million
equivalent, net of taxes and including price contingencies of about US$8.3
million equivalent and foreign exchange costs of about US$10.5 million as
shown in the following tabulation and detailed in Table 4.1. Physical
contingencies are not estimated separately because the costs are calculated
on an average per kilometer basis. The proposed loan of US$22.0 million
would be made to NAFINSA, with SCT as the executing agency. SCT would act in
coordination with COPLADE to carry out some technical components (para
4.09). The remaining funds required are expected to come from annual federal
budgetary allocations. The project would require about five years to
execute, with a completion date of June 30, 1990. The cost of new rural road
construction is estimated to average about US$25,000 equivalent per km in
1985 prices, derived as a weighted average of labor- versus equipment-based
construction for Class E roads (Table 3.5). Rehabilitation and improvement
costs are estimated to average US$3,400 equivalent per km, with the initial
roads costing more because of the lack of prior maintenance. Consulting
services and technical assistance costs are estimated (excluding price
contingencies) at about US$1.5 million equivalent including approximately
US$75,000 equivalent for tools, equipment and other associated expenses.



- 18 -
Project Cost Summary
(US$1.00 - Mex$ 205)
Foreign     Loan 1/
Exchange    Amount
Item                  Local   Foreign   Total    (Z)    (US$ million)
Rural Road Construction         3,845    1,282    5,127       25         12.5
(Mex$ million)
Rural Road Rehabilitation/
Improvement                  1,058      352    1,410       25         3.4
(Mex$ million)
Consulting Services and
Technical Assistance           216       92       308      30         1.5
(Mex$ million)
Total Base Costs
(Mex$ million)              5,119    1,726    6,845       25           _
Total Base Costs
CUS$ million)                25.0       8.4      33.4     25         17.4
Price Contingencies 2/
(US$ million)                 6.2       2.1       8.3     25          4.6
Total Project Cost
(US$ million)                31.2      10.5      41.7     25         22.0
C.   Rural Roads Construction Program
4.05      COPLADE, together with SCT, compiled a listing of about 2,500 km of
rural roads based upon requests made by local communities. It was decided
that the average annual construction program should consist of about 200 to
250 km per year, with a total of 1,000 km for the project period, based on
the historical average of about 250 km per year for Chiapas, and an
appropriate overall mix of road investments in Chiapas by SCT and other
agencies. Priority subprojects were then selected, based upon population
density, construction costs and transport needs. An initial 269 km (Map
18421) were confirmed for inclusion under the project through economic or
social evaluations. Subprojects for subsequent years would be selected on
the basis of agreed upon procedures (paras 4.10-4.15). The first year's
construction program, however, would comprise only 120 km because of
difficulties in arranging for the timely completion of detailed engineering.
4.06      The initial 269 km comprise 31 subprojects ranging in cost from
US$12,000 equivalent to US$51,000 equivalent per km, or an average of
US$25,000 per km (in 1985 prices), and they serve population centers of from
100 to 6,100 people (Table 4.2). The lengths of the initial subprojects
1/   Using 50% disbursement rate for civil works and 100% for consulting
services and technical assistance.
2/   Assumes Inflation rates of 5Z in 1985, 7.5X in 1986, 8% in 1987-1990 and
5% thereafter.



- 19 -
range from less than 1.0 km to 18 km, with an average of 8.7 km. Detailed
engineering is being prepared by SCT, for the first 120 km of works,
comprising the first year's construction program. A number of identified
subprojects (52 km) have been postponed, pending an environmental review,
because they are located in the ecologically sensitive area of Montebello
Park (para 4.20).
D.   Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
4.07      Centro SCT in Chiapas initiated an inventory of the rural roads
network under its jurisdiction, focusing on the road segments in poorer
condition which district engineers consider as priority candidates for
rehabilitation, spot improvements and/or periodic maintenance works. A field
review showed that the works to be included in the program would vary in cost
from approximately US$3,000 equivalent per km to about US$4,900 equivalent
per km. As the higher cost, seriously deferred, works are completed,
subsequent subprojects should cost about US$3,000 equivalent per km. The
initial program identified totals about 300 km (Table 4.3). At the time of
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the inventory is completed. The
first year's construction program for rehabilitation and improvement works
will comprise about 250 km. The annual workload should increase gradually to
about 500 km per year by 1988, with a total of 2,000 kms during the project
period.
E.   Consulting Services
4.08      The project includes consulting services for detailed engineering
of rural roads to be constructed.  Supervision of construction, however, will
be carried out by Centro SCT, utilizing their own staff. The project also
provides consulting services for technical assistance to SCT, including 50
man-months of domestic and foreign consulting services, to th.B extent needed,
to support the following:                                       4
(a) review of transport investment priorities in the State, including
the preparation of a road master plan for Chiapas
(12 man-months) (para 3.10);
(b) study tours within Mexico and abroad and provision of seminars at
SCT headquarters in Mexico City on rural road planning,
construction and maintenance (8 man-months);
(c) carrying out of appropriate pilot projects in Chiapas using
non-standard technology and equipment in order to improve rural
road construction and maintenance techniques (20 man-months); and
(d) preparation of revised manuals of rural road construction and
maintenance practices, as well as new manuals and guidelines, where
justified (10 man-months) (Annex 5).
4.09      ,. .e work described in paragraph 4.08 preceding would be the primary
responsibility of SCT, in coordination with COPLADE, mainly utilizing their
own staff. However, since sufficient capability and the appropriate
expertise are not available in these agencies in Chiapas to the extent needed
to properly carry out all the studies and other work planned, domestic and/or
foreign consultants would be used, when needed, to complement and amplify



- 20 -
in-house capabilities and would be the elements financed through the proposed
loan. During negotiations, agreement was reached on terms of reference for
studies included in the project.
F.   Economic Evaluation
4.10      The problem of poor access to a large proportion of the state's
rural population has been well documented, as have been the benefits
generated by previous rural road construction works in Chiapas (para 2.10).
The Plan Chiapas provides for integration of the proposed rural roads
construction program with a series of simultaneous social and economic
development programs, including the proposed Chiapas Agricultural Development
Project. Because of its comprehensive geographic coverage, the types of
benefits to be generated by the Rural Roads Project would vary in accordance
with the specific needs of the communities to be served. For most of the
subprojects, the benefits from lower transport costs, more reliability, and
better access to services, technical assistance and farm inputs would be
realized in the form of improved use of existing cultivated lands, through
reduced losses and higher yields, as measured by the incremental net value of
additional productlon. Similarly, it is expected that, in many cases, the
area of cultivated land would be expanded. In addition, other benefits, more
difficult to quantify, should be realized as outlying small communities,
particularly indigenous communities with limited production potential, become
better integrated with the main road network and receive better access to
social services (e.g., education and health services) as well as to job
opportunities in other areas with greater economic potential.
4.11      With a few exceptions, the road subprojects proposed for
construction in the first year lie outside the primary zone of influence of
the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project. The road network for the areas
affected by that project are either largely in place (needing rehabilitation
in some instances) or would be provided as a project component or as a
byproduct of the drainage structures to be built. The zones of influence
under the Rural Roads Project represent the next geographic areas for
development, where access must be provided before agricultural development
benefits can be realized.
4.12      For the economic evaluation of new road construction, a staged
screening methodology has been applied to the initial subprojects (Annex 6).
For subprojects which do not pass the first stage screening (estimated rates
of return of less than 12% using minimal benefit assumptions), a more
detailed analysis is conducted.   Of the initial proposed subprojects of 442
km, 269 km have been confirmed as eligible for financing, with about 118 km
passing the first stage screening and 132 km passing the second stage
screening, which, together with abou: 19 km of socially justified roads
(paras 4.13-4.14), comprise the initially identified eligible subprojects.
Estimated economic rates of return were generally about 20%, and the analyses
were based on the following:
(a) the analysis period was 20 years;
(b) road construction, maintenance and rehabilitation costs were
estimated for the 20-year period;



- 21 -
(c) unskilled labor costs for labor-based and mixed technology
construction works were adjusted by 50X to reflect the opportunity
cost of such labor in the seasons of slack agricultural activity;
(d) population, existing production and potential cultivable area were
estimated for each subproject's zone of influence by the related
Government agencies;
(e) projected yields, costs, parallel investments and prices were
derived from farm models relating to the Agricultural Development
Project, with more conservative assumptions applied to the road
subproject's areas in terms of timing and ultimate target yields;
(f) the three principal affected commodities are corn, coffee and
cattle-related products with corn benefits reflected in higher
yields and increased cultivated land, coffee benefits reflected in
rehabilitetion of existing areas, and cattle benefits reflected in
improved beef output per hectare as well as increased milk
production; and
(g) other commodities such as lumber, fruit and fish would be
incorporated in future subprojects where they represent substantial
benefits.
4.13      Although the principal criterion for accepting a road for financing
under the project is the effect upon production increases, it has been
apparent, through the preparation of the project, that there are areas of
Chiapas with high population concentration but with limited agricultural or
other natural resource potential. Particularly, in certain areas of the
state, such as Los Altos, roads are planned as part of an effort to integrate
remote and/or indigenous communities with the rest of the state and the
country. The roads are one element in a coordinated program to improve the
standard of living of these comuwnities without seriously undermining the
local culture. Many of the benefits of these roads are difficult to
calculate, such as access to health and educational services and to
employment opportunities outside the immediate zone of influence.  The
beneficial impact of such roads has been documented in prior research
conducted in Chiapas (para 2.10).
4.14      For the reasons stated in paragraph 4.13, a further review of
proposed subprojects with estimated rates of return below 12X is to be
carried out to determine whether substantial populations in areas with little
production potential would benefit in terms of access to social services and
employment. Such roads would be considered as "social' roads. The number of
roads with a predominantly social justification to be financed under this
project should not exceed 15% of the construction program, and each such road
should not exceed a construction cost of US$450 per person served. This
indicator is based on assumptions regarding potential increases in community
earnings through outside employment, some increases in the value of local
production, and the potential magnitude of other social benefits compared
with the average cost of rural road construction (Annex 6, paras 9-11). For
an average 8 km road, the minimum population required would be 440 people
with higher populations required for higher cost or longer road sections.
For the initial program, two subprojects totaling 19 km are included, based
on a social justification.



- 22 -
4.15      For rural road rehabilitation, no economic evaluation would be
required because of the low cost of the works.  But a technical evaluation of
existing conditions would be undertaken and the utilization of the existing
road would be confirmed by providing estimated daily trafftc counts as part
of the road inventory procedures (para 5.03).
G.   Project Beneficiaries
4.16      The intended beneficiaries of this project are rural residents in
the state of Chiapas who do not already have adequate road access or whose
road access has deteriorated. The areas affected are expected to be
predominantly small farms or ejidos.  Typically, households in such areas of
Chiapas, for which agriculture is the main source of income, earned about
US$135 per capita in 1980. A significant proportion of the beneficiaries are
expected to be from the large, ethnically distinct indigenous population.
With regard to the initial 31 subprojects (269 km), the total affected
population would be about 40,000 people. While 23 subproject --eas have
primary education facilities, only seven have secondary school facilities.
Only three of the areas have health care facilities, four areas have
electricity and five areas have piped water.
H.   Social and Ecological Considerations
4.17      Chiapas is a uniquely sensitive state, from a social, ecological
and political point of view, because it contains a high propertion of
indigenous inhabitants and ecological reserves of world significance, and it
has a permeable border with Guatemala. Chiapas also contains many
micro-regions, with varying potential for economic development, which could
help to serve national objectives for agricultural production.
4.18      The impact of rural road improvement on indigenous inhabitants
would be generally positive, as has been shown by earlier rural road
construction in the state. Besides the direct benefits to those employed in
construction, benefits have included greater access to health services and
education, greater commercialization of agricultural and craft products,
access to new agricultural lands, ard greater mobility of unskilled labor.
The rapid expansion of transport services following rural roads improvements
has allowed indigenous entrepreneurs, with state support, to enter the
transport sector. Furthermore, for many generations, the indigenous
inhabitants of Chiapas have provided seasonal farm labor for the producers of
commercial crops, as well as maintaining their own small subsistence plots.
This pattern has involved many men in temporary or seasonal long-distance
migration from their homes in the highlands to the cattle ranches of the
Central Depression and the coffee plantations of the Soconusco regions.
Small farmers and landless households depend upon wage labor which requires
daily or weekly travel, often to several different sites. The labor market
in Chiapas is characterized by a high degree of mobility in response to the
changing structure of opportunities for unskilled labor. Rural roads
construction will enhance the effective use of local labor by expanding the
radius of travel from home to work, as well as by generating new employment
opportunities both directly (about 3.5 million man-days in road construction)
and indirectly (through induced agricultural production).



- 23 -
4.19      Chiapas contains a number of unique ecological reserves which are
important in terms of wildlife and plants, as well as for watershed
management, soil conservation, water quality, fisheries and potential
tourism. The two federally protected areas are: the Lacandon Forest
Biosphere Reserve, the last humid tropical forest of significant size in
Mexico, located in eastern Chiapas; and the Lagunas de Montebello National
Park, which contains 80 lakes among pine and oak forest with subterranean
rivers and caves, also located in eastern Chiapas. The impact of rural road
improvements upon the physical environment is minimized by the design
standards and construction methods, which are based upon the principle of
providing access to existing rural communities at minimum cost, while
avoiding d4-3turbances to the natural terrain and excessive future road
maintenance costs. Alignments generally follow existing trails, and cuts and
fills are kept to a minimum. Labor-based methods are used wherever feasible,
supplemented by light equipment when necessary. Natural vegetation is
removed only if needed to assure adequate sight distances and drainage.
Protective measures are taken against erosion, including the use of retaining
walls and slope planting.
4.20      Mexico has established an environmental review process applicable
to all construction works, with the Secretariat for Urban Development and
Ecology (SEDUE) acting as the responsible agency. At negotiations the
Government confirmed that a subproject would not be considered eligible for
financing under the project until its SEDUE clearance has been issued. Data
on the initial candidate subprojects under this project have been submitted
to SEDUE, and all but seven of the proposed roads have received clearance.
The seven roads which require further study are located in the Lagos de
Montebello National Park area, near the Guatemalan border.  This area
contains several population centers to which the Gcvernment wishes to provide
access, both to serve the needs of rural residents and to organize and direct
the flow of refugees across the Guatemalan border. The Government is
preparing land use plans for this and other ecologically sensitive areas in
Chiapas.
..   Project Risks
4.21      The economic evaluation assumes an incremental change in farm
production patterns as a result of road improvements. While this increment
has been estimated conservatively, there is a risk that the expected yield
increases and/or increases in area cultivated wouln not occur if technical
assistance, seeds and fertilizer, and credit fail to reach the majority of
farmers. This risk would be mitiimized by the actions proposed under the
extension component of the proposed Chiapas Agricultural Development
Project. This component is statewide in concept and is not limited to the
agricultural subproject areas. Agricultural extension agents assigned to the
areas to be served by improved rural roads have participated in the
collection of data for the economic evaluation, including the identification
of complementary investments needed in agriculture. COPLADE has the
responsibility of making sure that these investments are included in the
budgets of the respective agencies and, through its monitoring and evaluation
activities, determining that needed services are delivered in a timely
fashion in the road-impact areas.



- 24 -
4.22      Additional benefits are derived from direct employment on the
project. There might be a risk that the project would fail to construct the
planned roads, or that the choice of technology might shift toward more
equipment-based methods during implementation, thus lessening employment
benefits. The first risk would be minimized by the extensive preparatory
work done by SCT and COPLADE staff and the scope of the project, which takes
into consideration local capacity for execution and historic construction
levels. The second risk would be minimized by the development of manuals for
determining appropriate construction technology, i.e., equipment-based versus
labor-based methods (para 4.08, Annex 5).
4.23      Finally, benefits would accrue to the rural population, and
especially to the indigenous population which occupies unproductive land,
through improved access to employment opportunities generated under the
Chiapas State Development Plan. The risks here are that new employment
opportunities may not arise, or that they may be taken by other people,
particularly neighboring Guatemala.   To minimize the first risk, this
project has been prepared in close coordination with the Bank-financed
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, which is expected to generate the
equivalent of 15,000 full-time jobs and to enhance agricultural production
throughout the state. No mitigating measures for the second risk have been
proposed at this time.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation
5.01      Candidate rural road construction subprojects are generated through
written petitions (solicitudes) submitted to SCT or state officials by
community representatives. SCT follows up on these petitions by sending a
promotor to the community to discuss the road, to help form a local committee
responsible for organizing community participation and to identify local
social, economic and physical resources and constraints. SCT will, on an
annual basis during the project, prepare preliminary cost estimates for
candidate subprojects and then pass the subproject information to COPLADE.
COPLADE and SCT, with the assistance of SARR, will carry out the economic and
social evaluation in accordance with the agreed upon procedures (Annex 6).
Road subprojects with a minimum estimated economic rate of return of 12%
will be considered eligible, and summary data sheets will he submitted to the
Bank for review and comment. If accepted, SCT will then prepare final
engineering in accordance with agreed upon design standards.
5.02      Road construction subprojects in less productive areas with
substantial population, but which do not meet the minimum economic criteria,
will be reviewed on the basis of social benefits.  The maximum construction
cost per person served should not exceed US$450 and the total cost of such
roads should not exceed 15% of the rural roads program. These limits were
agreed with the Government at negotiations. Summary data sheets on these
subprojects will be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. If
accepted, SCT will prepare final engineering in accordance with the agreed
upon design standards.



- 25 -
5.03      For rural road rehabilitation subprojects, it was agreed at
negotiations that SCT would carry out a road inventory on an annual basis in
accordance witt agreed upon procedures and would select priority
rehabilitation and improvement works from that survey and from discussions
with field engineers. The utility of these roads will be confirmed through
estimated traffic counts and the costs estimated. A summary program will be
presented to the Bank annually (by November 30 of each year) for review and
comment and, after approval, financing will be provided for a portion of that
program's budget.
B.   Procurement
5.04      All civil works included in the project would be executed by SCT.
All procuremer.t would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (August 1984). In the case
of rural roads included in the project, the works are of two general types,
construction and rehabilitation. The packages of construction works that
would be carried out by contractors are relatively small in value, would
employ light or minor quantities of equipment and are scattered
geographically throughout the state. Foreign contractors, therefore, are
unlikely to be interested in this type of work. Special efforts would
probably be necessary to interest domestic contractors from states some
distance from Chiapas. The rehabilitation works would be carried out, with
rare exceptions, by SCT through force account or mano de obra methods. In
some cases, small local contractors would be used to execute minor works, to
provide equipment or to act as labor contractors. For these reasons, civil
works that would be contracted would be tendered using LCB.
5.05      Procurement procedures used in Mexico were reviewed in detail and
were found to be generally satisfactory. A working paper on LCB procedures
in Mexico is in the project file (Annex 7). Procurement in Mexico is carried
out in accordance with the new Public Works Law which became effective on
January 1, 1984. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that certain procedures now followed would be modified in order to
agree more closely with the Bank's procurement policies. In particular, the
time for prequalification of contractors and for bid advertisement and
preparation will be increased in order to increase bidding opportunities and
permit more careful bid preparation. The Government also agreed that
contract awards should generally be made to the lowest evaluated bidder and
that information concerning bid opportunities should be widely
disseminated.
5.06      Civil works for road construction would be grouped into contract
packages ranging in size from US$75,000 to US$700,000 equivalent in order to
realize economies of scale while, at the same time, providing a range of
small to large sized contracts that could be executed by local contracting
firms. Contractors would be prequalified using SCT's standard procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank (Annex 7).   Contractors would be free to
choose their own construction methods, subject to their work complying with
the technical specifications. While use of labor-based methods to the
maximum extent possible would be encouraged, contractors would be allowed to
use the most economical mix of mechanical equipment and labor.
5.07      The Government would acquire all necessary rights-of-way and
rights-of-access and would take the necessary action to complete
rights-of-way acquisition prior to awarding contracts in the affe,ted areas.



- 26 -
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that all
necessary rights-of-way for the first year's construction program have been
obtained.
5.08      The rehabilitation works included in the project would be carried
out by SCT using force account methods, a minimum of equipment and a high
percentage of local labor. These works usually consist of spot repairs or
improvements and deferred periodic maintenance, and their average cost is
about US$3,400 per km.
5.09      Consulting services for detailed engineering of rural roads to be
constructed and for technical assistance to SCT would be obtained in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
About US$1.1 million equivalent, of consulting services would be provided for
detailed engineering for the rural roads to be constructed (excluding price
contingencies). About US$400,000 equivalent (excluding price contingencies)
would be needed, to provide technical assistance to SCT and COPLADE together
with necessary equipment and supplies for carrying out the pilot projects for
improvements in rural road construction and maintenance. Mostly, individual
domestic consultants would be engaged to assist Centro SCT in carrying out
the work, with foreign consultants engaged only to provide expertise not
available in Mexico.
5.10      For contracts which are estimated to be less than US$500,000 in
value, and in view of Centro SCT's capabilities in planning, design and
construction of rural roads (para 3.17), Centro SCT would, after agreement
with the Bank on standard bid documents and tender procedures, prepare bid
documents and final cost estimates, advertise for bids, open and evaluate
tenders, and award and sign contracts without prior review of these actions
by the Bank. After the signature of each contract, SCT would send the Bank
two conformed copies of the contract, together with the bid evaluation report
indicating the award decision and the reasons therefor. The Bank would
review this information and indicate acceptance if it were found to be
satisfactory. The Bank could, if acceptable procurement procedures were not
followed, reject the contract and cancel the related loan amount. In case
higher than anticipated bid amounts are received which would cause the
project's economic rate of return to be unacceptably low, consultations
between the Bank and the Government would take place with a view toward
modifying the design or reducing the standards used in order to bring the
costs to an acceptable level. For other contracts, the procedures set forth
in Appendix 1 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (August 1984) will be followed.
C.   Disbursements
5.11      Expenditures for civil works included in the approved program and
carried out under the project and for consulting services may be reimbursed
from the Special Account on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(para 5.16). Disbursements would be on the basis of 50% of total
expenditures (excluding value added taxes, IVA) for civil works (rural road
construction, rehabilitation and improvement) and 100% of total expenditures
(excluding IVA) for consulting services for detailed engineering and for
technical assistance, including necessary tools, equipment and supplies.



- 27 -
5.12      The foreign exchange component for civil works is estimated to be
about 25% of total costs (excluding IVA). For consulting services, foreign
exchange costs are estimated to be about 30% of total costs (excluding IVA).
Following Bank policy for Mexico, disbursements for civil works would be made
at a rate of 50% of total net costs, thereby financing up to 33% of local
currency costs. For consulting services, disbursements would be on the basis
of 100% of total costs (excluding IVA), for both foreign and local currency
expenditures.
5.13      Standard disbursement profiles, based on the usual type of project
lending, prepared for Mexico and the Latin American region, show that, on the
average, a seven-to-eight year period is required to fully complete and
disburse transport projects. Because of the time-slice nature of this
project, the fact that it is made up of many small road sections being built
to a relatively low standard that do not require extensive pre-construction
preparation, and the fact that the first year's program will be completely
prepared prior to Board presentation to permit an early start, a disbursement
period of six years is considered adequate. On the basis of the project
implementation scnedule (Table 5.1), a schedule of estimated disbursements
(Table 5.2) has been prepared. Based on this schedule, the closing date for
the loan would be June 30, 1991.
5.14      For civil works carried out by SCT using force account methods,
disbursements from the Loan Account would be made (replenishing the Special
Account, para 5.16) on the basis of statements of expenditures which are
based, in turn, on certified statements of works carried out and monies
expended, using SCT's normal methods of accounting for such expenditures,
which have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. Records of work
performed and expenditures made would be kept on file by SCT, audited
annually (para 5.17) and made available for periodic review by Bank staff.
5.15      SCT is proceeding with the preparation and execution of the first
year's construction program, first implementing those subprojects that would
be executed on a force account basis. Between July 1, 1984 and the
anticipated date of loan signature, approximately 80 km of new construction
and 150 km of rural road rehabilitation and improvement works are expected to
be completed. On this basis, the loan would include retroactive financing of
up to US$2.2 million for expenditures included in the approved program that
are incurred after July 1, 1984 but before the date of loan signature.
D.   Special Account
5.16      In order to reduce the interval during which SCT would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments from the loan account into a
Special Account, to be opened in US$ by NAFINSA and which would be available
for reimbursing SCT, through NAFINSA, for the Bank's share of the project
cost. The total amount in the Special Account would be that required for
project execution, but would not exceed US$2.0 million. NAFINSA would be
entitled to make withdrawals from the Special Account in pesos at the
exchange rate applicable on the day upon which payments were incurred on
Bank-approved contracts and rural roads investments and on Bank-approved
consultant contracts and equipment purchases for technical assistance
purposes, if such payments took place within 90 days before the withdrawal
request. Otherwise, withdrawals will be made at the exchange rate prevailing



- 28 -
on the day of the withdrawal from the Special Account. The withdrawal
applications would be on the basis of statements of expenditures covering the
payments made for these specific contracts and works executed in these
specific programs respectively. Supporting documentation would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by SCT; it would be made
available for inspection during audits (para 5.17) and project supervision
missions. The Bank would replenish the Special Account, at the request of
NAFINSA, upon the basis of the withdrawals made. At negotiations, agreement
was reached on the terms and conditions of the Special Account.
E.   Auditing
5.17      Under the project, the Bank would require two types of audits: an
annual audit of the Special Account and an annual audit of the accounts of
SCT upon which the statements of expenditures are based. Procedures have
been agreed to between the Government, NAFINSA and the Bank which would
govern the auditing of all Special Accounts established for loans with
NAFINSA. The external auditor for NAFINSA would carry out the required audit
each year. These procedures were confirmed at negotiations. With regard to
the auditing of SCT accounts, SPP will carry out the control and verification
of accounts and will report on such verification annually. There is also a
General Directorate of Control in SCT, independent from the operational
departments, carrying out physical as well as financial audits of SCT
expenditures. The auditing procedures are satisfactory. At negotiations,
the auditing procedures to be applied to the related SCT accounts were
confirmed and agreed upon.
F.   Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring
5.18      Contracts for rural road construction works included in the first
year's construction program (120 km), consisting of about 9 contracts, have
been or will be bid upon and awarded during 1984 and 1985.  The balance, of
about 6 road sections, are being carried out directly by SCT through force
account methods and were initiated during the latter half of 1984. Also, 250
k'm of rural road rehabilitation are expected to be carried out during
1984/85. In subsequent years, the program would reach a rate of about 220 km
of rural road construction annually, and up to 500 km of
rehabilitation/improvement. The project implementation schedule (Table 5.1),
drawn up on the basis of Chiapas' overall rural road construction program,
was reviewed and agreed with the Government during negotiations.
5.19      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will prepare
periodic reports on a quarterly basis for Bank review, covering, inter alia,
the items listed in Annex 8 and that it will prepare a project completion
report within one year of the project's closing date.
5.20      In addition, the Government will provide annual data and
information, for project monitoring purposes, on the following key project
indicators:
(a) the level of completion, during the previous year, of rural road
works in the approved program;



- 29 -
(b) the level of accomplishment reached during the previous year
through the technical assistance component of the project,
including the effort and resources expended and the lessons learned
through the pilot projects program;
(c) the status of rural road maintenance within Chiapas, budgets
allocated, funds expended, physical accomplishments and future
trends;
(d) the projected level of rural road construction, rehabilitation and
improvement, as well as technical assistance, for the coming year;
and
(e) the status of the ongoing rural roads inventory program.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
Ca) a review of the transport investment priorities in the state, and a
road master plan for Ch'apas to be completed by December 31, 1986
(para 3.10);
(b) a review of the construction and maintenance practices regarding
rural roads in the state under the jurisdiction of SCT and SARH to
be carried out by December 31, 1987 with a view to further
rationalizing rural roads designs, specifications, construction
methods and maintenance practices, and assignment of maintenance
responsibilities between agencies (para 3.17);
(c) the provision of adequate resources to meet rural road maintenance
requirements (para. 3.23);
Cd) the annual update of the rural roads inventory (para. 3.24);
(e) a study of rural transport services to be completed by December 31,
1986 (para. 3.29);
(f) technical assistance requirements and terms of reference for
related studies (para. 4.09);
(g) the need for SEDUE clearance of subprojects prior to declaring
eligibility for Bank financing (para. 4.20);
(h)  proceduLes for the annual technical and economic preparation and
evaluation of the rural roads construction and rehabilitation
program (paras 5.01-5.03);
(i) procurement procedures for civil works and consultant services
(paras 5.04, 5.05, 5.09 and 5.10);



- 30 -
(j) retroactive financing (para 5.15);
(k) terms and conditions of the Special Account (para 5.16);
(1) auditing procedures for the Special Account and for the SCT project
accounts (para. 5.17);
(m) implementation schedule for the project (para. 5.18); and
(n) project reporting requirements (paras. 5.19-5.20).
6.02      Subject to the above, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$22.0 million, with a term of 15 years, including a grace period of
three years.
March 25, 1985



HElaoD
aIAPAS RURAL 1AD6 PRI)EV
Transport Investmnt
(in mdllions of 1984 Mex$) I/
Subsector       1977         1978        1979        1980         1981         1982          19R3         1984          19q5
(Pr-oScted)
Highways       90,600      95,200    104,200       116,300      176,600      126,700       114,700       0o, 00        113,400
Railways       43,200      37,800      61,300       83,700      103,000      88,800         77,192       s0,650         88,024
Ports 2/        5,400       5,100      10,700       24,500       53,100      46,700         19,000       20,600         20,100
Aviation 3/     6,700       7,t,0       7,500        7,LI900     13,100       4,000         53,100 3/    14,800         31,700
IOTAL         145,900     145,100    183,700       232,400      345,800     266,200        263,992      206,R50        253,224
1/ US$1.00   Mex$ 175.
2/ Excludes dredging except in 1983-1985 and PE4ME port investrents.
3/ The sudden increase in aviation expenditures in 1983 and 1985 reflect the acquihition of airplanes.
Source:  SPP, SC! and Bank estimtes
March 1985



- 32 -
TABLE 2.2
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Development of the Road Network (Km)
1952      1960      1970     1975       1980
Federal Roads                 13,033    23,828    29.358    X,292    42,521
Earth                          479       974       620       901       757
Gravel                       1,517     2,623     1,310     1,590     2,063
Paved - 2 lanes             11,037    20,231    27,299    35,427    39,153
Paved - 4. lanes               -         -         129       374       548
Toll Roads                       113       290       868     1,028       932
Paved - 2 lanes                 52       229      496        552      480
Paved - 4+ lanes               61        61        472       476      452
State Roads                   10.830    15.137   29,984    37,102    49,302
Earth                        1,560     1,756     2,986     2,967     7,831
Gravel                      4,388     7,325    15,091    15,437    17,176
Paved                        4,882     6,056    11,907    18,698    24,295
Local Roads                    3,356     2,787     7,530    13,489     3,194
Earth                          591     1,130    2,544      3,175      787
Gravel                       2,619     1,255     3, 353    6,378     1,050
Paved                          146       402     1,633     3,936     1,357
Rural Roads                                -       2.160    64,777    83,268
Earth                          _                   429    15,443    15, 360
Gravel                         _                 1,708    49,310   67,273
Paved                          -         -          23        24       635
Earth Tracks                    NA       2,850     1,520    22,486    33,409
TOTAL                         27,332    44,892    71,520   186.218   212,626
Tracks                         NA      2,850     1,520    31,530    33,409
Earth                        2,630     3,860     6,579    22,486    24,735
Gravel                      8,524    11,203   21,462    72,715    87,562
Paved - 2 lanes             16,117    26,918    41,358    5B,637    65,920
Paved - 4+ lanes                61       61       601       850      1,000
Source: SCT
July 1984



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SCT Highway Infrastructure Investment 1977-19R4
(in millions of 1984 Mex$) I/
Type of Investment                1977        1978         1979         1980         1981        1982         1QR3         1984
(Estimated)
Construction                     16,000      15,500       16,300       17,300      21,000       17,300       25,R00       17,200
Reconstruction/
Modernization 2/              4,200        7,500       10,600       15,400      31,000       23,200       34,200      24,200
Rural Roads Construction         12,300      13,400       18,000       36,800      54,900       36,000       12,000       10,70n
Trunk Road Maintenance 3/        22,400      22,400       20,500       20,500       23,300      17,900       24,qon       25,600
w
Rural Road Maintenance             NA          NA           NA           NA          NA           NA          4,900        6,600
Other 4/                         35,700      36,400       38,800       26,300      46,400       32,300        7,9nn        6,500
Total                            90,600      95,200      104,200      116,300      176,600     126,700      114,700       snRnn
I/ US$1.00 * MexS 175.00
2/ Toll road investments included.
3/ Includes rural road maintenance in 1977-1982.
4/ Transfer of budget for biparttte roads out of SCT budget occurred after 1982.
Source: SCT and SPP
March 1985
LtJ



- 34 -
TABLE 2.4
_EXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
National Rural Roads Construction - 1971-1983
(km)
Program
Year      Normal Program      CUD      PIDER    COPLAMAR    Total
1971          2,740             -          -        -       2,740
1972         10,540             -          -        -      10,540
1973         13,480             -      1,520        -      15,000
1974          4,070             -      1,780        -       5,850
1975          3,565             -     2,970         -       6,535
1976          2,945             -      2,055        -       5,000
1977              -         2,734     2,604         -       5,338
1978              -         2,601     2,614         -       5,215
1979              -         2,325     2,546         -      4,871
1980              -           537     2,199    2,969        5,705
1981              -           591     1,010    4,661       6,262
1982              -            NA         NA       NA       3,800
1983              -         1,002        400      929      2,331
Total                                                      79,187
Source: SCT/DGCR
July 1984



- 35 -
TABLE 2.5
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Bank Lending to the Transport Sector
Loan No.   Title                                     Amount      Date    Status
(USS       (FY)    (FY)
milLion)
103-ME     First RaiLway Project to
Ferrocarril deL Pacifico                61.0       1954    CompLeted 1959
268-ME    First Highway Project                        25.0       1961    CompLeted 1968
317-ME    First ToLL Road Project                      30.5      1962    CompLeted 1967
354-ME    Second Highway Project                       40.0       1964    Completed 1972
401-ME    Second ToLL Road Project                     32.0      1965    CompLeted 1970
528-NE    Third Highway Project                       27.5       1968    CompLeted 1973
695-ME    Fourth Highway Project                      21.8       1970    CompLeted 1977
820-ME    First Port Project                          20.0       1972    CompLeted 1977
825-ME    Second RaiLway Project (N de M)              75.0      1972    CompLeted 1977
968-ME    Seventh Highway Project                      90.0      1974    CompLeted 1982
1022-ME   Airport DeveLopment Project                 25.0       1974    CompLeted 1982
1232-ME   Third RaiLway Project (N de M)             100.0       1976    CompLeted 1983
1671-ME   First Highway Sector Project               120.0       1979    CompLeted 1984
1929-ME   Fourth Railway Project (N de M)            150.0       1981    Est. CompLetion 1985
1964-ME   Port DeveLopment Preparation Project        14.0       1981    Est. CompLetion 1985
2428-ME   Second Highway Sector Project              200.0        1984    Est. CompLetion 1988
2450-ME   Lazaro Cardenas IndustriaL Port Project  76.3           1984    Est. Completion 1990
Source: Bank staff
March 1985



- 36 -
TABLE 3.1
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROAPS PROJECT
Existing Chiapas Road Network
(km)
Type_of Road or                   Road Surface
Responsible Agency      Earth    Gravel   Paved    Total
Federal Trunk Roads       -         -       1601     1601
State Trunk and Feeder
Roads                    154      840       693     1687
Rural Roads (Federal)      48     3955       -       4003
CFE                        66      141      153       360
PEMES                      -        -       216       216
SAM.                       -       174       -        174
Others                     87      278      177       542
TOTAL                     355     5388     2840      8583
Source: Centro SCT, Chiapas
July 1984



- 37 -
TABLE 3.2
MEXIC0
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Traffic Levels on Chiapas Main Highways
Average Annual            Z Heavy
Road Section                            Daily Traffic (1981)         Vehicles
Pan-American Highway
Tuxtla Gutierrez - Cowitan            2,000 - 3,700              16 - 22
Cintalapa - Tuxtla Gutierrez          3,000 - 5,600              31 - 34
Coastal Highway
Arriai - Tapachul-s                   2,000. - 4,000             30 - 36
North Highway - Route 195
Achucalco - 1scopetazo                 660 - 3,200              44 - 50
Source: SCT
July 1984



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Division of ResponsibiLity for Roads in Chiapas
(as of 1983)
Financial ResponsibiLity
Construction                   Maintenance
Road Program                         Selection 1j   Construction        Maintenance       Feaoral   State tocal          Federal   State   Locar
Federal Trunk Roads                     SCT                SCT                SCT           100X       -       -           100X      -        -
COPLANAR Rural Roads 2/                 SCT                SCT                SCT           100X       -        -          100X       -       -
PIDER Rural Roads 2/                   PIDER              PIDER               SCT           100X       -        -          100X       -        -        w
CUD3/ 
State Trunk Roads                  CUD                JLC 4I            JLC             SOX       50X     -            50X       501     -
Feeder Roads                       CUD               JLC                JLC             33X       33X     331          50X      50X      -
RuraL Roads                        CUD                JLC               SCT             80X      20X      -           1001      -        -
SARH Service Roads                     SARH               SARN               SARH           100X       -        -                 not defined
1/  SCT must comment on aL  road programs except for SARH.
7/  The ruraL road programs of PIDER and COPLANAR were incorporated into the SCT Rural  Roads Program in 1984.
T/ CUD is basicaLLy a state-run program.
Ti Junta LocaL de Casinos
Source:  Centro SCT, Chiapas
JuLy 1984



- 39 -
TABLE 3.4
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Rural Roads Construction in Chiapas
(Km)
SCT/
Year       COPLAMAR          CUD      PIDER    Other       Total
1977                         208         70       -          278
1978                          76        124       -          200
1979             -            49         65       -          114
1980           103           139         85       -          327
1981           217           117       100        -          434
1982           116            37        100       -          253
1983            89            15        50        60         214
Total           525           641        594       60       1,820
Source: SCT, DGCR and Centro SCT, Chiapas
July 1984



-40                                TABLE 3.5
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Rural Road Design Standards
Class E Road
ITEM                        UNITS                   STANDARDS
1. Average Annual Daily Traffic              Vehicles/day             (100
2. Type of Terrain:
Mountainous
Rolling                                                     -      _
Flat
3. Design Speed                              kl/hr               30  40  50  60  70
4.  Stopping Sight Distance                    m                 30  40  55  75  95
5.  Passing Sight Distance                     m                  -   -   -   -   -
6. Maximum Degree of Curvature               degrees             60  30  17  11  7.5
7.  Vertical Curves   ,,   Crest              m/Z                 4   7  12  23  36
Sag             m/%                 4   7  10  15  20
Minimum Length     m                 20  30  30  40  40
8. Desirable Grade                             %                  9   9   7   -   -
9.  Maximum Grade                              %                 13  13  10  7   7
10.  Formation Width                            m                         4.0
11.  Riding Surface Width                       m                         4.0
12.  Crown (Transverse Grade)                   Z                         3
13.  Superelevation                             %                         10
Source: SCT
July 1984



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(millions of March 1985 Mex $; US$1.00-Mex $205.00)
Investment Item                          1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989      Total
Rural Road Construction
Co0t                               129         464       1242       1242       1025       1025        5127
(km)                               (40)        (80)      (240)      (240)      (200)      (200)      (1000)
Rural Road Rehabilitation/
Improvement
Cost                                42         168        242        305        305        348        1410
(km)                               (50)       (200)      (350)      (450)      (450)      (500)      (2000)
Consulting Services and
Technical Assistance                  42          103         82         41         40         -          308
Total Base Costs
Mex $ million                      213         735       1566       1588       1370        1373      6845
US$ million                        1.0         3.6        7.6        7.7        6.7        6.7       33.4
Price Contingencies
(US$ millions) 11                        -          0.2         1.0        1.9        2.2        3.0        8.3
Total (US$ million)                      1.0         3.8        8.6        9.6        8.9        9.7       41.7
1/  Assumes inflation rates of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8% in 1987-1990 and 5% thereafter.
Source: Bank staff and SCT
March 1985



- 42 -
_____                                                       TMI 4.2
CHIAPAS MIRAL IIOAIIS P LJECT
IsitIa1 mtoral Rod lnvrst-.t  ramr.
tictasted Cot.
(lbsOOO) "/
Pfp.lati.      Sp   f      Total                   C.tlParos          ltrks
Rood Sect-s                      ko     Sacrvd    ConLtroCtIo      Coat      Cost/ha       broad
A..a l.dapsdaal  -
0.la.51 CelialV -S.C.
Coalopol r.jaha'-  (33) 21     17.0       2.805      Labor      3l.l00        2.240        13.6        mode. C-atm"LttOai/
ft-- -  la I- C121             15.0       1.405     Pixed        32.3n0       2.160       23.n
C C   1 Pradelq.1ItojIto -
t.CC.I  Z.pata-Caios  (34)      0.7         754     taho          2.90       4.130        3.R 11     LE -1r.o  Cuapletodl/
L. Prl-er  - S.C.
Cob/0jo d. A90    El 3)         3.0         I05    Ltbho         1f,4O0       5,470       9.0
Cl  rluntf c-as  do Coltte  (36) 5.4      2.534     Lahob        15.590       2,890        6.2           iALelmrI  Caplotod'l
Sos .lodro-aS.  L-ra-tE.C.
ltwao Roltda (28)              11.0        S$1       Rqmlpasat   46,40       4.220       90.8 J        njiL arlsi Csplato.t31
111c-El Cda  (29)               7.5         900      Eqoips*t   16.980        4.930       41.1        totgLisrlnc Coapl.tsd31
S.. Joan da1 Vall -
t.C. C 1 Aorrp-rta (31)         4.0         217    tLb..r        16.170       4,040       74.5         IDLaaarlis  Cspl.atdl
PLo Cord -I[.C.
PLa C    sl          (33)      38.0          54 4' Ltbr          74.840       4.160     3390.0         ader  ,seotruetlosl
Cr1.tsboI Colon -
S-nto U-n  (34)                 1.0         184    Ltbar         20.7M0       6.930       113.0
Sam ll   r 51w  (19o          312.0       2.460      Eqtip_ot   55.s o        4.620       22.6        Zgl,srllg UsOdnalyl
Alvaro Obrgogo - X-C.
Saj-vol/ra-arco Cots (43)       7.0        1.Z45     C4qoisst   17.330         .470 3  33.0
Pirslo S    Ja-a.JaI. (53       6 1.0     2.716      Eqolpsat  79.130         4.940       29.2
Trm Laguoaw-Lloso Larg.
La.. f-  (133)                 15.0         450      ihod        52.900       1.530      11.1 1       Ctaasvrla  Cusplotsrdl/
Plan do Ayti-
C.on1 V.aroco- (24)             8.0       4,120    111,d         33.030       4.130         S.4
So  Astoclo--Sdt.
C.C. La Pladd (27)              t.0         436 b    LAor         3.470       1.470        9.3         bi,oasring Cosplstsd_1
SF   AtsnIo-VIIllfors--
LA  Cvsbrsa-Oj d- Ago-
El Edos (30)                   12.0         .,150    Zqoipaot   50.040        4.240       44.3        Zaisasrtau Cupistad3J
Cci. SudoIr  Fris-res (32)      4o.0      2.754      Lbabr       313190       5.200       11.3        Sargisrlsg Cl pistd3/
Fe.lp. Aogolam
Fr-ocle;c J. ileJi- (l6)        6.0         597      lOsed      2W.790        3.470       14.9        tgisl-rig ra tdm.ayl/
os- Jaa. .1 tqoto
it  SIn-L. Victori- (27)       12.0         475    rlCxd         55.340       4.620      134.8 l       Egiaariog Caaplatcd,3
tlre P.lestisa-tai
Ispls-. CRi)                    7.5       1.897     Ltaho        63.320      81.380       32.3         Magi-rieX Cr_IpxdJL
Costs Is liodad
E.C. A C.1 plt. ()              6.0        1.245     Equ-ipat  23.5t0         3.950       39.0          agi-aelog Coaptstdo'/
t.C. Corrat-r= Ctostr. (453    12.0         850      Cqvips*t  41 .50         3.470       48.9
Vlitllollrss--ta Cap
E.C. Z.uslpa/Zrg.sa. (44)    7.0            693      Cqvip_*t   40.310        3.790       58.5
saqsrs-Rsrrior-b.l
UADD CraSds-0o da
A     D.-Aoo Le-did. -
t.C. Izl/xt2-1t-tsttl.:
Troa Ojo da Ago - S.C.
H.i.tcdll otatla (48)          14.0       1.777     ZqoTipat    3 .620        5.970       47.0
Sistano  dl Uoq.
L. rot-:t  (49)                 5.0         72:     SquiLp_t   16.170         3.230       22.4
Usios PtjiJLps-
SchetArsy (531                 13.0       2.304    Sted          5 I.0       *.oo       22.6
La Condaisr1-  -  .C.
Sea Crstb/al.Tas3 .ps. (523     2.5         365  Nxud            23.330       9.330       63.9
El Trlunfo-CL M"Ito (54)        7.0       I.229     Cqulpa_t   36.610         5.230       29.5           gtssriog Capiatsdl3
PM..Cc..O cotopst (55)         10.0         343      Nx d        50.820       3.080      146.0
333.I Al_-
El Prnir  -o.1.
trs (56)                        7.0         633      Nixd        24.220       3.470       38.3
TOTAL                         248.6       39.925              3.143.090       4.270  51   29.0 51
11 L351W.00r-a IR4
21  SCr  s..Cro-ioo
3f  7ncladd In Pint TSrae  Casotrutlos fNr..
P. PapUistioc sentd lotad at -ods of rod oscrics ad rot Isidd ds thsos osti-ta
5/ Cocoistod a.-sKe.
Sort.: SC1
tieh 39M3



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Initial RehabilitationlImprovement Program
(Mex$000) 1/
Segments
Maintenance                          Network              Road       Proposed for         Avg.        Total
District                       Responsibility2         Length    Reconstruction       cost/Km       Cost
(kmn)              (kmn)         (kmn)
Tuxtla-District 7-A                   769.2               227.0            77.5           700         54,250
Palenque-District 7-B                 911.8               388.3           78.2            600         46,920
San Cristobal-District 7-C          1,046.6               476.2           55.4          1,000         55,400
Tapachula-District 7-D              1,304.3               374.8           80.0             750        60,000
TOTAL                               4,031.9             1,466.3          291.13/           744       216,570
1/ US$1.00 - Mex$ 205 (March 1985).
2/ Excludes 324 km in process of being transferred to SCT.
1 Of thtis total, about 250 km would be included in the first year's construction program.
Source:  SCT and COPLADE
March 1985



MEXICO
CHIAPAS RUL41 ROADS PROJECT
Project Implem,entation Schedule
Yenr/Saeoter|
1 9 8 5      |    l 9 8 6            I 9 8 7            I 9 R A            1 9 A 9            1 9 9 0            1 9 9 1
Item/Activity                                         let         2nd    Ist    2nd         let    2nd         lot    2nd  |    int    2nq           it     2n-d    lit        2nd
(I) Determine Annual
Construction Program                            8|           6         |    R7| R                                 P9
(2) Deteraine Rehabilitation
& Improvement Program                                I 851| |6|             187 |      8    |_II                            qO                9                  q    |
(3)  Engineering & Contract Documents
(a) For (1)                                      | 85 |   |   6  |                    8?    |            OR   |9
(b) For (2)                                           I 85_ |l     6 I       | R7           |88                |  89              190                  ||'
(4) Prequalification of
Contractors for (1)                                     85 11  16               1                _87  a 
(5)  Execuition of (2)  by
Force Account                                             |.85          86                 87                  8R               8q                 90                 9|
(6)  Bid & Award of Contracts for (1)                       | 85 I    I  86    I | 87                 | 88              | R9
(7)  Construction of (1)                       |.85                      |   86                  R7                  88               R9
(8) Technical Assistance & Studies
(a) Transport Master Plan
(b) Rural Transport Services Study
(c) Study Tours and Seminar.
(d) Pilot Projects
(e) Preparation of Updated                                                                                       1 -
Manuals and Guidelines
| R7      Program for Year indicated
Execution of Activity                                                                           |_
Source: SCT and Bank Staff
March 1985



- 45 -
MEXICO                           TABLE 5.2
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(millions of US$)
Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year         Disbursements         Disbursements at        Cumulative
and Semester          for the Semester        End of Semester         Percentage
1986
December 31, 1985             0.7                    0.7                  3
June 30, 1986                 1.3                    2.0                  9
1987
December 31, 1986             1.7                    3.7                 17
June 30, 1987                 2.2                    5.9                 27
1988
December 31, 1987             2.5                    8.4                 38
June 30, 1988                 2.6                   11.0                 50
1989
December 31, 1988             2.6                   13.6                 62
June 30, 1989                 2.2                   15.8                 72
1990
December 31, 1989             2.0                   17.8                 81
June 30, 1990                 1.8                   19.6                 89
1991
December 31, 1990             1.1                   20.7                 94
June 30, 1991 1/              1.3                   22.0                100
1/ Closing Date June 30, 1991
Source: Mission estimates
March 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Major Sectoral Issues
1.        The main issue in the transport sector is the appropriate scope and
timing of transport investments. The 1985 budget basically represents a
holding strategy with no major new investments. The Government, in
establishing its six-year plan, must still face major decisions concerning
the deferred large transport investments. The rail infrastructure investment
program has received a full economic and technical review in preparation for
the proposed Railway Sector Project, particularly to determine the
appropriate timing for projects such as the new line between Guadalajara and
Monterrey, the coastal line between Tampico and Veracruz and various major
rail yards. The Mexico City-Queretaro electrification, hecause of prior
commitments, cannot be delayed further and will require substantial budgetary
allocations between 1984 and 1987. For the ports, the major decision will be
to determine what further investments are justified at Lazaro Cardenas and
Altamira (with assistance to be provided under proposed Bank-financed port
projects) and to establish the timing of the remainder of the industrial
ports program and industrial decentralization. In the roads subsector,
Mexico faces a significant backlog of modernization (widening) works on the
trunk network, particularly on the toll roads. In addition, alleviating
capacity limitations at Mexico City Airport will require substantial
investments. Most of these decisions will depend upon the expected timing
and structure of the economic recovery, the projected level of import
substitution and its impact upon grain imports and related transport
facilities, the transport requirements of non-traditional exports, and the
progress of industrial decentralization and urban deconcentration efforts.
2.        Besides the overriding issue of transport investment, other major
sectoral issues relate to transport pricing, regulation and maintenance:
(a) Fuel Price: Diesel prices are still below international levels,
but the Government is making a serious effort to raise all fuel
prices to international levels as part of its program to reduce
public subsidies. 1/ The Bank, through its macro-economic
1/ Since December 1981, the Government has followed a policy of gradually
raising domestic fuel prices toward international levels. From December
1981 to January 1985, gasoline prices have risen from US$1.06/gallon to
US$1.38/gallon for extra and US$0.42/gallon to US$1.08/gallon for
regular. Diesel prices have been raised even more significantly from
US$0.18/gallon to US$0.61/gallon. Gasoline prices are above
international levels (based on November 1984 Caribbean market prices FOB)
of US$0.79/gallon for regular, while diesel prices are still below
international levels (US$0.79/gallon).



- 47 -                            ANNEX I
discussions with the Government and its economic and sector work,
will continue to monitor progress on the fuel pricing issue and to
help the Government to assess the implications of its pricing
policies;
(b) Road User Charges: It is evident that certain road users,
particularly heavy trucks, are not paying a sufficient amount
relative to the costs they impose upon the road network. SCT is
undertaking a study, with Bank assistance under the Second Highway
Sector Project, and will exchange views with the Bank on the
implementation of the study's recommendations;
(c) Railway Tariffs: Despite substantial increases in railway tariffs
since late 1982 and improvements in the railway's operating and
working ratios, certain basic commodities are still carried at
tariffs which do not fully cover variable costs. This situation is
being discussed under Loan 1929-ME and through the preparation of
the proposed followup Railway Sector Project;
(d) Port Charges: Under the recently approved Lazaro Cardenas
Industrial Forts Project, the Government has agreed to carry out a
nationwide study to determine the tariff levels required to remedy
the present inadequate recovery of port infrastructure investment
costs. It will then provide a plan of action for implementing the
study's recommendations; and
(e) Rural Road Maintenance: After having constructed over 80,000 km of
rural roads in a period of about 14 years, it is apparent that
related maintenance and rehabilitation efforts must be greatly
expanded and improved. Specific improvements with regard to
Chiapas are called for under the proposed project (paras 3.23-
3.24 of report) and the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project,
as well as for the rest of the country under the Second Highway
Sector Project.
Harch 1985



- 48 -                            ANNEX 2
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
.--alysis of Rural Road Maintenance Costs
1.        In order to provide an approximate estimate of the costs of
maintaining typical rural roads in Chiapas, the analysis shown below has been
carried out by the Bank and SCT. The basic assumptions used in determining
quantities and costs are as follows:
(a)   A typical rural road section, 10 km long, in average condition at
the present time, is taken as the model. Climatic, geographical
and top.graphic conditions usually found in rolling to mountainous
countrybsde in Chiapas are assumed, as are equipment, labor and
methods normally used for this type of work in Chiapas;
(b)   Local communities in the past have helped in carrying out rural
road maintenance in Chiapas by donating some or all of the required
labor. Recently, the prevalence of this practice has been
declining. Nevertheless, it is assumed that 50% of the labor
needed to carry out routine maintenance is provided by local
communities without charge;
(c)   The work week is assumed as six eight-hour days, with minimum wage
at Mex$ 600 per day, for that portion of labor cost paid by SCT;
(d)   The cost of renting 6 cu m capacity dump trucks is taken as
Mex$ 16,000 per day each. Trucks are assumed to be hand-loaded
when used for routine maintenance (i.e., spot regraveling); and
(e)   Prices used in calculations are based on costs of labor, materials
and equipment as of the end of 1984 and are expressed in constant
prices of that datel/
1/ At US$1.00 - MexSl75.00



-49 -                            ANNEX 2
Routine Maintenance
2.        Estimated costs in constant end 1984 Mexican pesos are:
Estimated
Cost
Man-Days      NMexS)
(a) Cleaning ditches and drainage structures;
filling small potholes; grass cutting
and removal of vegetation; and removal
of large stones and other obstructions, etc.
- Prior to Rainy Season
10 men x 15 days                                  150        90,000
After Rainy Season
15 men x 45 days                                 675        405,000
Cb) Average normal drainage and bridge
structure repair work. Assume 30% of
road length in flat, 202 in rolling, and
50% in mountainous terrain.                            75        45,000
Cc)  Slide removal, repair of erosion damage, etc.            50         30,000
Cd) Spot regraveling at 3% of road length
10 km x 0.03 - 300 m;
300 m x 4 m x 0.15 m - 180 cu m(loose measure)
180 x 1/6 - 30 - 6 cu m truck loads;            (truck rental)  96,000
6 truck days plus 10 men x 7 days                      70        42,000
(e) Cost of administration, direct (road foreman)
and indirect supervision over  two months             -          75,000
TOTAL                   1,020        783,000
Locally Contributed Labor at 50%                        510       306,000
TOTAL                                       510  MexS 477,000



- 50 -                            ANNEX 2
Average Annual Cost of Routine Maintenance I/
Mex$ 477,000 x 1/10 - Mex$ 47,700 per km
Mex$ 47,700 x 1/175 - US$273 per km
Periodic Maintenance 2/
3.        Estimated costs in constant end 1984 Mexican pesos are:
Estimated Cost
(Mex S)
(a) Leveling of existing road surface and re-establishment
of ditches: 10 km x 4 m x Mex$ 7.50 - Mex$ 300,000              300,000
(b) Excavation of gravel from borrow pit:
10 km x 0.15 m x 4 m - 6000 cu m;
6000 cu m (loose) x 1/1.2 - 5000 cu m (compacted);
5000 cu m x Mex$ 350 - 1,750,000                            1,750,000
(c) Transport of gravel (average haul - 12 km):
6000 cu m x Mex$ 35. x 12 km - 2,520,000                    2,520,000
(d) Spreading, leveling and compacting gravel layer
on road surface:
6000 cu m x Mex$ 120 - 720,000                                720,000
(e)  Major repairs to drainage structures and bridges.               700,000
TOTAL                Mex$ 5,990,000
,,.-r.-mm
1/  At 50% contributed labor.  If all labor costs are paid by SCT, the cost
would be Mex$ 783,000 per annum for the typical 10-km road section.
2/   Primarily consists of regraveling, carried out at approximately
eight-year intervals.



- 51 -                                ANNEX 2
Average Annual Cost of Periodic Maintenance:
Mex$ 5,990,000 x 1/8 x 1/10 - Mex$ 74,875 per km per year
Mex$ 74,875 x 1/175 - US$428 per km per year
Average Cost of Periodic Maintenance (8-year intervals)
Mex$ 5,990,000 x 1/10 - Mex$599,000 per km
Mex$599,000 x 1/175 = US$3,423 per km
Summary
Annual Maintenance Costs 1/
Routine Maintenance  Periodic Maintenance          Total
Mex$/km   US$/km   Mex$/km       USS/km   Mex$/km   US$/km
With 50% locally
contributed labor       47,700      273       74,875    428       122,575     700
All labor costs
paid by SCT             78,300      447       74,875    428       153,175     875
I/  For rural roads in Chiapas as of the end of 1984.
March 1985



ANNEX  3
- 52 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Proposed Inventory Format for Rural Roads
A. General Information
Road:                               Type:
Length:                             Population Served:
Year of Construction:               Method of Construction:
Estimated Traffic (vehicles/week):
Cars:
Light Trucks (less than 6 tons):
Heavy Trucks/Buses:
Maintenance Carried Out (current pesos):
1981      1982       1983
Routine
Periodic
Total
Status at last inventory (year/points):
Existing level of access:
(1)  year-round access for all vehicles:
(2) year-round access except for
heavy trucks during and after rains:
(3) Poor access:



ANNEX 3
-53-
B. Details of Condition
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
Type/Condition:
Riding Surface
Lateral Ditches
Right
Left
Culverts
Fords
Bridges
Steep Slopes
Intervention Required:
Scarification
Material Replaceaent
Reopen Ditches
Right
Left
Reconstruct or
Construct Culverts
Reconstruct or
Construct Fords
Reconstruct Bridges
Co=mento and Critical Areas
August 1984



- 54 -                        ANNEX4
mEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Chiapas Rural Transport Services Study
General
1.        Poor transport conditions, especially on rural roads, coupled with a
total lack of road access for many small and poor communities, have been
identified in Plan Chiapas as one of the major constraints on socio-economic
development within the State. It is believed that access improvements will
stimulate increased commercial production, provide farmers with access to needed
credit, extension services, and agricultural inputs, and facilitate the delivery
of health and education services to the rural poor. These benefits will be
achieved through coordination of development actions to be taken by different
agencies as part of Plan Chiapas, under the guidance of the state's decentralized
regional development committee, COPLADE. In order for COPLADE to carry out its
coordinating role effectively, it will need to have a better understanding of the
role played by rural transport services in the state's socio-economic development
process. Since Chiapas is one of the first states in Mexico to undertake road
improvements in the context of decentralized planning, this study can also provide
an example for a better understanding of the role of rural transport services in
the country as a whole.
Objectives
2.        The general objective of the proposed study is to develop a better
understanding of the intersectoral consequences of changes in the transport
sector. Specificially, the study will document the existing patterns of transport
service provision in rural areas, considering both freight and passenger services,
making the maximum use of existing data. Special attention will be paid to
changes that have taken place on rural roads that have been improved in the recent
past. Legal, regulatory, financial and cultural constraints on the growth of
transport services in the state will be identified. Field work will then be
undertaken in a sample of rural communities served by roads to be constructed
under the Chiapas Rural Roads Project, with the aim of finding out how rural
people actually secure goods and services for themselves and how their excess
production enters commercial channels. Analysis will focus on the extent to which
the benefits of rural roads improvements in Chiapas may be expected to be passed
on to rural residents, thereby inducing increased economic productivity and higher
levels of social participation among the rural poor. Finally, the study will
recommend measures to be taken by COPLADE or by the participating agencies, in
cooperation with the private sector, to ensure that rural road Investments have
the desired deveiopmental effects and to promote the broadest possible
participation in the benefits from such investments.



-55 -                               ANNEX 4
Scope of Work
3.        The study will be undertaken in three phases:
a. Preliminary data collection and field research design. In this
phase, the study team will assemble the available data regarding public transport
services and private vehicle ownership in the municipalities served by the
Bank-funded rural roads program. SCT's planning data and promotores should be
consulted to describe, as well as possible without doing additional field work,
the current patterns of public and private transport on the roads to be improved
under the project. On this basis, a representative sample of road links will be
selected for field study; this sample should include some links that have already
been improved, some scheduled for improvements, and some unimproved tracks that
will not be improved under the project. Sampling procedures and interview
schedules will be developed ;.-Id field-tested for use with various types of local
informants. During this phase, the study team will also collect data from the
various Federal and State agencies involved in transport and marketing regarding
transport costs and charges by vehicle type and commodity type and official prices
for products at different points in the collection/distribution chain.
b. Field Work. The study team will carry out field research on the
sample road links, including interviews in the nearest municipality center and in
the settlements served by the road. It is expected that the work program would
include interviews with a sample of farm households, as well as with transporters,
traders, agricultural extension agents, storage facility staff, service providers,
mule drivers, etc. The purpose of the interview would be to determine the true
patterns of vehicle ownership and use (including animal transport, motorcycles and
bicycles), prices actually paid for selected commodities at different points in
the collection/distribution chain, actual charges for freight and passenger
transport, actual costs incurred by different types of vehicles on various types
of roads, formal or informal restrictions on the growth of the transport sector,
and transportation constraints on the delivery of services. The interviews should
also include data that could be used to identify patterns of land tenure, land
use, employment and income that may affect the ability of the rural poor to make
effective use of transport services. Naturally much of the desired data may not
be readily obtained through direct interviews. It is expected that the field
research would complement such interviews with observation and indirect enquiry.
For this reason, the participation of a local social scientist on the study team
is strongly indicated at the design stage.
c.  Analysis.   The data collected during the field work should permit
at least the following types of analyses to be carried out:
(i) Analysis of the relationship between real costs, real charges, and
official rates for the transport of various types of goods on
different types of roads;
(ii) Analysis of the relationship between real costs, real charges, and
official rates for passenger travel on different types of roads;
(iii) Analysis of the role of own-account transport in rural areas, for
goods and for personal travel, and how these patterns may change
with road improvements;



- 56 -                            ANNEX 4
(iv) Analysis of the impact of cost savings due to transport
improvements on (a) the prices paid to farmers for their crops and
(b) the prices paid by rural households for inputs and consumer
goods;
(v) Analysis of the threshold level of transport services needed to
induce service providers (agricultural agents, credit officials,
teachers, health workers) to establish new service centers or to
visit rural areas regularly;
(vi) Analysis of the role of transport services in facilitating or
limiting the free flow of labor, both local and long-distance, in
response to changing employment opportunities; and
(vii) Analysis of the relationship of land tenure, cropping patterns,
income and employment, age and sex to the utilization of transport
services and consequent effects on the distribution of benefits
from road improvements.
Other concerns of interest to the Government may also be addressed by the study.
d.  Reporting.  Analysis of the data is expected to lead to a number of
recommendations for action to be taken by the various participating agencies in
order to increase the flow of benefits from rural road improvements to the rural
poor in Chiapas. These recommendations will be reviewed and discussed by an
advisory committee before the study report is prepared in final form.
August 1984



- 57 -                               ANNEX 5
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Guidelines for Preparation of Updated SCT Manuals
1.        On the basis of the experience gained and the lessons learned during the
implementation of this project, SCT will, with the assistance of domestic and/or
international consultants where required, update and revise the present SCT
Manuals, Guidelines, Standards and Specifications for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads. Where appropriate, new manuals will be prepared. The
guidelines and manuals will reflect current SCT policy affecting rural roads and
will contain procedures, standards and specifications derived from SCT'I. overall
experience, updated to reflect current practice and the results of the pilot
exercises carried out as part of this project.
2.        More specifically, they will contain, among other things, the following:
(a) Guidelines for the selection of appropriate construction technology for
rural roads, based on, inter alia, consideration of the type of terrain
and soils, volume of earthworks, availability of labor, financial and
economic costs of alternative construction methods, and social
considerations. The effects of choices made on required subsequent
maintenance technology efforts will also be treated in depth;
(b) Guidelines for the design and execution of improvements to the existing
sub-standard non-SCT roads in order for them to qualify for acceptance
and subsequent maintenance by SCT;
[c) Analysis and description of alternative methods, costs and advantages of
carrying out compaction on earthworks and gravel surface layers.
Guidelines for the selection and use of equipment for compaction on
rural roads, both for equipment-intensive and for labor-based
construction methods;
(d) Guidelines for conducting rural road inventories and for establishing
reconstruction and rehabilitation programs, including consideration of
physical needs, costs and budgetary constraints; and
te) Guidelines for choosing appropriate technology for rural road
reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance, and for deciding when to
execute works by force account with or without rented equipment, by
force account using unit rate contracts for certain tasks or, in certain
cases, completely by contract.
3.        The new guidelines and manuals will be prepared by SCT, assisted by
appropriate consultants, and is expected to be ready for dissemination to other
states in Mexico by the end of 1990.
March 1985



- 58-                             ANNEX 6
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Guidelines for Economic Evaluation
A. General
1.        This annex describes the methodology used in evaluating roads proposed
under the rural roads "new construction program and for submitting subprojects
for Bank review. It also describes the key information used in determining the
economic feasibility of the first year's construction program. A more detailed
discussion has been prepared and is included in the Project File (Annex 7).
2.        The Centro SCT in Chiapas, in coordination with the state COPLADE,
compiled a listing of 2,500 km of potential rural road subprojects based on the
requests of local communities and a preliminary screening by Government staff.
Detailed information was collected for about 442 km, and the evaluation procedures
outlined in this annex have been applied. About 269 km are considered eligible,
having met minimum economic or social criteria, and they represent the initial
construction program. The remaining 173 km are awaiting further information to
complete the evaluation or are awaiting environmental approval by SEDUE, and they
are expected to enter the program in subsequent years along with another 558 k1m,
making a total of 1,000 km of new construction.
B. Project Identification and Selection
3.        Potential road subprojects are initially proposed by petitions
(solicitudes) of the local communities presented to SCT or State officials. SCT
then sends a specially trained representative (promotor) to the community to
discuss the road and the community's transport needs, to help form a local
committee responsible for organizing community participation and to identify local
social, economic and physical resources and constraints. Based on the
promotor's findings, SCT screens the community's requests, focusing upon transport
needs (availability of alternative access), population served (generally no less
than 350 people) and estimated cost per kilometer (varies with terrain). The
resultant list of potential subprojects is presented to COPLADE along with initial
cost estimates and physical description. COPLADE and SCT are then responsible for
carrying out the detailed economic and social evaluation in collaboration with
SARH, and other relevant Governmental agencies.
C. Economic Evaluation Procedures
4.        Except for a limited number of roads, the subprojects proposed for
construction lie outside the primary zone of influence of the Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project. It is assumed that the road network for the areas affected
by that project are either largely in place, needing rehabilitation in some
instances, or will be provided as a byproduct of the drainage structures to be
built. Thus, the Agricultural Project focuses upon areas where benefits can be
realized relatively quickly. Road subprojects in those areas will be evaluated



- 59 -                                  ANNEX 6
within the overall context of the Agricultural Project. The zones of influence
for most of the road works under the Rural Roads Project represent the next
geographic areas for development, where access must first be provided before
agricultural development benefits can be realized.
5.        For the economic evaluation of new road construction, a staged screening
methodology is to be applied to candidate subprojects. For subprojects which do
not pass the first stage screening (estimated rates of return of less than 12%
using minimal benefit assumptions), a more detailed analysis is conducted.
Because of its comprehensive geographic coverage, the types of benefits to be
generated by the Rural Roads Project will vary, depending upon the specific needs
of the communities to be served. For most of the subprojects, the benefits from
lower transport costs, more reliability, and better access to services, technical
assistance and farm inputs will be realized through the following:
(a)  Losses avoided in present production of cash crops which cannot be
commercialized because of transport constraints;
(b)  An increase in yields and/or area planted in present crops;
(c)  Shifts, where appropriate, in production patterns toward more perishable
crops, notably fruits and vegetables;
(d)  Increased commercial exploitation of livestock resources, notably dairy
products;
(e)  Increased commercial exploitation of fishing resources;
(f)  Increased commercial exploitation of timber resources; and
(g)  Transport cost savings to non-freight and *through- traffic.
6.        The first stage screening methodology (Paso A) assumes that rural road
subprojects in Chiapas will generate benefits at least equivalent to 0l of the
net value of production in the zone of influence through reduced production
losses, increased new production and other types of benefits listed in
paragraph 5. These benefits are calculated for the first year and held constant
for the evaluation period of 20 years. If the estimated rate of return, using the
economic construction, maintenance and rehabilitation costs for the period, is
over 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital, the subproject is considered
eligible, and no further economic evaluation is made. The roads which pass on
this most simplified methodology are generally in areas with substantial existing
production and/or have relatively low construction costs. It is reasonable to
assume that agricultural output will expand in these areas when the present
transportation constraint is removed. Adequate supplies of fertilizer are
available, and the input distribution and marketing system for foodgrains is
prepared to respond rapidly to road improvements. There is a heavy demand for
credit and technical assistance in these areas, and there appears to be no major
cultural constraint on delivery of such services to farmers.
7.        The second-stage screening methodology (Paso B) requires more detail on
the specific potential benefits in terms of increased yields and cultivated
hectares for current types of crops as well as improved livestock output.



- 60 -                                       ANNEX 6
Estimates are made for each subproject's zone of influence, and the incremental
net value of production is calculated for year 10, when the potential is expected
to be reached. The investment costs include road costs, as well as agricultural
development costs. If the estimated economic rate of return 1/ is greater than
12%, no further evaluation is made, and the subproject is considered eligible.
8.        Additional benefits which can also be considered in Paso B relate to
other affected products or economic potential, such as tourism, fisheries and
timber development, for which the net value added is calculated. Also, transport
cost savings for non-freight traffic and "through" traffic are calculated.
Furthermore, possible beneficial impacts on the secondary zone of influence are
analyzed.
D. Social Evaluation Procedures
9.        Although the principal criterion for accepting a road for financing
under the project is its effect upon production increases, it has been apparent,
through the preparation of the project, that there are areas of Chiapas with high
population concentrations but with limited agricultural or other natural resource
potential. Particularly, in certain areas of the state, such as Los Altos, roads
are planned as part of an effort to integrate remote and/or indigenous communities
with the rest of the state and the country. The roads are one element in a
coordinated program to improve the standard of living of these communities without
seriously undermining the local culture. Many of the benefits of these roads are
hard to calculate but have been confirmed through a number of studies in Chiapas
and elsewhere in Mexico.2/ The main benefit is providing improved access to help
members of the local population to find employment outside the immediate zone of
influence during underemployed periods of the year. Other benefits include access
to health and education facilities, as well as the increased value of the limited
production in the zone of influence.
10.       For the reasons stated above, a further review of proposed subprojects
with estimated rates of return below 12% is to be carried out to determine whether
substantial populations in areas with little production potential would benefit in
terms of access to social services and employment. For each candidate subproject,
in addition to the production analysis carried out for all subprojects, closer
review is made of the transport needs of the community for other purposes such as
gaining outside employment and facilitating access to social services. Although
it would be impractical to attempt to calculate such benefits for each candidate
subproject, a general calculation was made of the potential magnitude of the
benefits in order to establish a maximum road investment cost per person served
and to avoid excessive road investment. It is estimated that at least 35% of the
heads of household are underemployed on-farm to the extent of 60% of annual normal
1/ Calculated by applying "Method III" from Economic Appraisal of Rural
Roads: Simplified Operational Procedures for Screening and Appraisal.
Beenhakker and Lago, SWP 610, October 1983.
2/ Frank Cancian, Change and Uncertainty in a Peasant Economy, Stanford
University Press, 1972; Robert Wasserstrom, Class and Society in Central
Chiapas, University of California Press, 1983; and World Bank Study of
Rural Mobility and Communications in Mexico, Draft Final Report, 1981.



- 61 -                                       ANNEX 6
labor time.3/ During this underemployed period, some already seek employment for
about one-tWird of that time in the coffee plantations but, because of unreliable
transport, are unable to participate in other types of employment during the rest
of that period.4/ With the new road, it is assumed that the community will be
able to obtain other types of employment (in urban areas, agricultural development
projects or nearby oil-related employment). For a typical community of 440 people
(88 heads of household), this would mean an additional annual income of about
US$16,120 (US$37 per person, or US$520 per head of household seeking outside jobs)
for the community assuming the minimum daily wage. This estimate excludes the
potential for increases in the average wage in future years, as well as an
increase in the economically active population.
11.       In addition to outside employment, the communities would benefit from
the increased value of local production as transport costs and reliability are
improved. In some areas of Chiapas, rural road development has made vegetable and
flower production and marketing viable. Furthermore, poor access has limited the
delivery of educational and health services to outlying communities. The
Government of Mexico allocates about US$74 per person in the country for
education5/, which reflects the perceived benefit to the recipients. Chiapas
rural communities have shown a high demand for education to the extent that they
have helped to provide physical facilities. Proposed roads would help to realize
these benefits in outlying areas by getting teachers into these communities and
facilitating student participation in higher grades at schools outside the area.
Simply adding a portion of these benefits and some increments to the value of
local production to the potential employment benefits will result in an estimated
rate of return of over 12% for the average 8 km road section. From this analysis,
it was concluded that the maximum road investment cost per person served should
not exceed US$450, such that the average 8 km road section would require a minimum
of 440 people to be included in the program. Higher cost or longer road sections
would, thus, require higher populations. In addition, the nimber of roads
justified on this basis for financing under the project should not exceea 15% of
the Chiapas rural roads construction program.
E. Data Base
12.       Estimates of population served, cultivated areas, production and
potential additional productive areas are compiled for each candidate subproject
based on census data, SARH field representatives and reports of the SCT
promotores. In addition, for each subproject zone of influence, SARH has
indicated the parallel measures and investments required for meeting projected
potential.
3/   Details on the Altos region are provided in Frank Cancian, "Development in
the Altos Region-, Consultant Report, March 1984. Cancian finds that of the
economically active population in agriculture, only 12% have enough land to
maintain themselves.
4/   A survey in the 1970s found that half of Chamula family-heads migrated to
coffee plantations for work (Cancian, op-cit., pg 6).
5/   International Monetary Fund, Government Financial Statistics Yearbook,
Vol. VII, 1983, pg. 273.



- 62 -                                  ANNEX 6
13.       Estimates of potential yields, production costs and farmgate prices
for different regions of Chiapas have been derived from the farm models
prepared in conjunction with the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project.
For the rural road subprojects, however, targeted yields and production with
the project are scaled down to reflect that such areas have somewhat less
potential than the areas in the first stage Agricultural Project, and the
time required to meet those targets has been extended to ten years,
representing the fact that these areas would be affected only secondarily by
the first Chiapas Agricultural Project and would be more directly treated in
followup agricultural projects. The project's assumptions are thus
conservative as compared with those applied in the Agricultural Project. The
analysis also does not assume a change in cropping patterns on existing
cultivated lands, introducing another conservative element into the
evaluation.
14.       Three principal types of production are targeted in the Paso B
analysis (para 7). The main commodity is corn (maize), which is the primary
target of Government agricultural development efforts in Chiapas in order to
significantly reduce the country's dependence upon imported foodgrains. For
the road subprojects, it is assumed that yields in the coastal area would
increase from an average 1.5 tons per hectare to 2.4 tons over a period of
ten years as farmers move from traditional methods to more mechanized methods
and introduce fertilizers. This compares with a target of 3.0 tons per
hectare in six years under the Agriculture Project. In the Central
Depression, yields are expected to rise from 2.1 tons per hectare to 3.0 -ons
over a ten-year period, compared with 4.0 tons in six years in the
Agriculture Project's zone of influence. The second type of production is
cattle for beef and dairy products. More intensive use of existing cattle
grazing land is projected, reaching targets set in the Agriculture Project in
ten years rather than seven. Last, a number of candidate subprojects will
serve extensive coffee-growing areas. Many of these areas are being affected
by coffee -rust' and require intensive efforts to prevent the spread of the
problem and to replant more resistant and higher yield varieties. The roads
will facilitate the planned rehabilitation of the most important coffee-
producing areas in Mexico.
15.       Benefits were calculated principally on the basis of improving the
output on existing cultivated land. The extension of cultivated land due to
the project was included where indicated by SARH, following the general
cropping patterns of the existing cultivated area. An upper limit, however,
was applied such that, over a ten-year period, the cultivated area could not
grow more than 35Z, roughly equivalent to population growth in rural Chiapas.
16.       Prices used in the evaluation of agricultural inputs and outputs
reflect projected world market prices adjusted for transport and handling in
order to derive farmgate economic costs and revenues. Local market prices
have been used for commodities which are not tradeable overseas. Net value
added estimates were obtained by deducting the value of Incremental inputs,
including fertilizer, pesticides, labor and equipment, from the calculated
economic farmgate price of incremental production.



-63 -                                   ANNEX 6
17.       Capital costs include the cost of road construction, detailed
engineering and supervision, and are expressed net of taxes. Incremental
annual maintenance costs of about "1S$125 equivalent per km are included, and
rehabilitation costs of about US$3,400 equivalent per km every eight years
are also included. Capital costs for agricultural development, mainly land
clearance, materials and equipment, have been derived from the Agricultural
Project's farm models. Unskilled labor costs for new road construction are
adjusted by 50% in the case of labor-based and mixed-technology construction
to reflect the opportunity cost of rural labor in Chiapas. It is assumed
that unskilled workers on such types of construction will be hired during the
slack agricultural season when underemployment is severe. This matter will
have to be reviewed annually to determine if the underemployment persists and
the assumption is valid. For such works, unadjusted unskilled labor costs
represent from 18 to 45% of total construction costs (including IVA,
engineering and supervision).
F. Initial Program Results
18.       About 269 km of the initially proposed 442 km (para 2) are
considered eligible for financing under the project, with about 118 km
passing the first stage screening. 6/ About 132 km passed the second stage
screening, with 13 of 15 subprojecti having estimated rates of return in
excess of 18Z. About 19 km passed based on social criteria. The remaining
173 km require further data Lo pass the Paso B evaluation.
March 1985
6/ No 'absolute rates of return are calculated for these works since it is
important only that they pass the 12% minimum, applying minimum benefit
assumptions.



-64-                               ANNEX 7
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Mexico.  Rural Roads Sector Report.  Chiapas Case Study.
March 1984 (Green Cover).
2.   Mexico.  Roads and Labor.  SAHOP.  1976.
3.   Mexico.  Chiapas - A Case Study of Growth Potential and Improvement of
the Social Environment. August 1982 (White Cover).
4.   Mexico.  Plan Chiapas.  Federal Government of Mexico and
State Government of Chiapas. 1983.
5.   Mexico.  Case Study of a Rural Roads Program and Its Interface with the
Local Communities. Carnemark. October 1978 (Draft).
6.  Mexico.  Rural Development Program - PIDER III, Rural Roads.
Kimes. 1981 (Draft Sector Paper).
7.   Mexico.  Study of Rural Mobility and Communications in Mexico.
Pilot Phase. Rahkonen et. al. August 1981 (Draft Final Report).
8. Mexico. Chiapas. Plan y Programas de Gobierno 1982-1988.
Gobierno del Estado de Chiapas. December 1982.
9.   Mexico.  Almanaque de Chiapas 1982.
10. Mexico. Estudio de Desarrollo Regional de Puerto Madero, Chiapas.
CIFSA. No Date. (Vol. I-III).
11. Mexico. Staff Appraisal Report. Second Highway Sector Project
April 1984 (Buff Cover).
12. Mexico. Human Ecology and Malaria Resurgence in Chiapas.
Wasserstrom. 1982.



- 65-                              ANNEX 7
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
13. Mexico. Programa Credito Banco Mundial. Componente Caminos.
COPLADE. March 1984 (Main Volume and six Annexes).
14. Mexico. Resumen de Metas y Avances del Programa de Caminos
Rurales 1977-1982. SAHOP. September 1982.
15. Mexico. Propuesta de Caminos Rurales 1984-1988/Programa de
Reconstruccion de Caminos Rurales 1984-1988. Centro SCT Chiapas.
Julio 1983.
16. Mexico. Junta Local de Caminos del Estado de Chiapas. 1983.
17. Mexico. Carreteras Troncales. Propuesta 1984-1988. Centro SCT
Chiapas. 1983.
18.  Mexico.  Chiapas Development Program.  General Background and
Issues Paper with Final Project Briefs Attached. April 1984.
19. Mexico. Chiapas Decision Memorandum. May 1984.
20. Mexico. Memoranda and Reports Concerning Social, Environmental and
Transport Service Issues.
21. Mexico. Basic Data for Economic Evaluation. COPLADE. 1984
(4 volumes).
C. Selected Working Papers
22. Mexico. Working Paper on Local Competitive Bidding Procedures.
August 1984.
23. Mexico. Worksheets for Economic Evaluation of First Year Program.
July 1984.
August 1984



- 66 -                          ANNEX 8
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Reporting Requirements
1.        With respect to project monitoring and reporting, the Government
will provide, inter alia, the following information on a quarterly basis:
(a) the list of eligible subprojects being proposed for inclusion in
the project, together with the list of contracts relating to them;
(b) the status and progress of implementation of each contract being
financed by the Bank, including basic contract data and a neirrative
description of progress accomplished, problems encountered or
foreseen and solutions used or proposed;
gc) the state of preparation of subprojects to be proposed for
Inclusion in future years' programs;
(d) the status and progress of the technical assistance program, its
costs and accomplishments; and
Ce) the status of project expenditures, of withdrawals from the Special
Account, of applications for withdrawals from the Loan Account and
disbursements made, and a schedule of estimated future
disbursements based on current implementation forecasts.
August 1984



- 67 -
MEXICO
CIZAPS RURAL ROADS PROJEC'r
Orgonftafon of Secista*t fbr CommunIatIns and TroKNPOfl (SC
I     tan ToMrb      1 ru,
Dmmovary k__   _ O____ 1    cind
tlblwllsnt2at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adrddi" ant
ages Ifaai  D.G   ~ ~ ~ ~ D -, IIIU,U            TidW= I Zwrl waD4JIn
D.& lm 5ad~~~~~~           0.61w              0G~~~.r fb,1Sm                                              OCG S F  kwl
0.G_1w  0.61w  11G.1w~uiu                      hGSSo
_   |             -      |                    a~~~~~~ -          _                                 . f
I   D.Gi~Ic~tbr    I.G 1w               l  DGtbrO,Chaii Mor |ktu                                                               r 
n  tWFO  I   ,Oanct   n  tra                         I-1                         It rnDr,     l r F
|DG.loi.dl    ]  dPUtY   I    2    D.G.IPbt   |      D   QG.Tctr,sOc                            DG Gr      Dw
J ~ ~ ~ ~~~G QG1w                        Opalw 1ECIIIl lMsa .Ir                                         tb       D
Aw~~~~ paae.  aid ~~~~~~~~~ql~~~~arunut
NOW  r- Slont% fbr l I.G 1wc1u                 D.Glor 1alfd                                                  Gbr    |
SoLum TlGnldB*SW Iim nir*  2 S S                        I                                                0  1
|uQG. 19 8G b
1.WIdSrd a    I                                                                        r and 
1- ba arid1g  r Ma
M~~~~~~~~~~~wi~~~~~~~~~~
PJcb D.G 9i15 SwsCtD  GuI
9  saUdW
JUly 19U1                                                                                                            -      



/   ~~~~II
94                                        Vollte    b i s                                       92
t         ~~~TABASCO                   /:           )                                        <,-1                              AAS
a   b! S   K    I /              *-  ,---} . i   ,                     \~~~~~~~ABA---
VERACRUZ
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~
/z]~~~~~~~~ \ f   
&d6p. V.cI.c
~~~~~~ ~~~~~K ILO M                  ETERS
1 1<SS                                    .,t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P aw a   a . mWP IrWF
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 lboW                                                            F bN-.Y -V -fib 2=
I94'                 93'                                              92'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  0 4U    C
- C!-Ms ^ ~~/                                                                                    _    _    _       -      = 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o SJoU.                               G.oodrJ   /C0
\~~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               '-, ,I .,tnq ,on P. .Ro.I- f o r
~~~~~ V ln4o. -             -                   To          D
P.or ol,_          00.10_r                              U       1
_ 1 50                                                    \g -  j,? ]*^50i0 D~~~~- 
940 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~_D 930r                                  .1' ;      2



IBRD 18421
I CAMPECHE                                   90
TABASCO
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Tj.P s.                                              PROJECT:
-  7  e  I  Rural Roads - Initial Year's Program
d !  s SCT  Identification No. for Rural Roods
>  |__   EXISTING:
__ iPaved Roads
Grovel Roods
Earth Roads
Sea Port
-  \-  Railroads                                           17
Rivers
I  \\  A   Ai rports
Mountoinous Areas
Sttte Boundaries
- Internotional Boundori,
16
GUATEMALA
90'
0;=*                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
KILOMETERS
4;.0    6u      80      100
_0           60                                          MEXICO
MILES
-W1 Deft's ftff -*- b VW
1   0e  d  J  11 _tt Slls ~~~1 5~
-   or n . VT.wo B.*                           - P. ifti. l-
Id e . ICwSS,ba -%I  MI. dW           .,,   -,                             Cv
d go A.,fwk.0na FUSCW CozW~ah why ,on. wit10 1
Id,_  S.S  *CCOcc of xA Sn0
91  I  (GUATEMALA,
SEPTEMBER 1984






