Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4022-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 22.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
March 29, 1985
nhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = MexS208.79; the rreemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = lex$226.85. Both
exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.21 per day against the US
dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)    =  2,205 pounds
I liter (1)              =  0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                       Average Cost of Funds
CECADE                    Economic Development Training Center (SPP)
CONASUPO                  National Marketing Organization for Basic Foods
COPLADE                   State Development Planning Committees
COPLAMAR                  National Coordination Agency for Marginal Areas
CUD/CUC                   Federal/State Coordinating Agreements
EFF                       Extended Fund Facility
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
IFAD                      International Fund for Agricultural Development
LVA                       Value Added Tax
JLC                       Local Roads Council
LCB                       Local Competitive Bidding
LIBOR                     London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
NT de M                   Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico,
(National Railwavs of Mexico)
NAFINSA                   Nacional Financiera, S.A.
NDP                       National Development Plan
PEMEX                     Mexican Petroletin Monopoly
PDR                       Regional Development Program
1'IDER                    Integrated Rural Development Program
PLANAT                    Rainfed Agrictulture Program
SAHOP                     Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SAP                       Special Action Program
SARH                      Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SCT                       Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SED.'..                   Secretariat of Urban D)evelopment and Ecology
SHCP                      Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP                       Secretariat of Programing and Budgeting



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- i -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Project         Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT)
Execut ng
Agency:
Amount:         US$22.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project        The proposed loan is being presented simultaneously with an
Description:   agriculture development project as part of the Bank's support
to the initial phase of the Government's development program
for the State of Chiapas. The Chiapas Development Plan is
designed to address the main constraints to the development of
the State and to implement economic as well as social invest-
ments. The areas of influence of the two proposed projects
would fit well into the priority areas of the Chiapas Develop-
ment Plan.
The proposed project would support the initial stages of this
Plan through the execution of a rural roads construction,
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance program in
coordination with other simultaneous social and economic
development efforts. The project provides for:
Ci) construction of about 1,000 km of rural roads;
tii) rehabilitation and improvement of about 2,000 km of
existing rural roads; and (iii) consulting services and
related technical support to carry out detailed engineering
and upgrade the administrative and implementation capabilities
of the executing agency.
Beneficiaries: The intended beneficiaries of this project are State rural
residents lacking adequate road access.   The areas affected
would be predominantly small farm communities for which agri-
culture is the main source of income. A significant propor-
tion of the beneficiaries are expected to be from the State's
large, ethnically distinct indigenous population. The initial
year's program would serve about 40,000 people. The benefits
would be realized through increased agricultural production.
In addition, local residents would benefit through improved
access to employment opportunities elsewhere in the state and
better access to, and delivery of, social services.
1Th document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:          The project faces the following risks:  The first one flows
from the fact that the institutional framework for
coordination of Federal and State level planning and implemene-
tation activities under the Chiapas Program is new and largely
untested in practice. This institutional risk may also have
implications for the provision of adequate and timely counter-
part funding. To address this problem, the Government is
taking steps to improve the institutional and budgetary
capabilities of the executing agencies involved. In addition,
there are two types of risks which could affect the
realization of project benefits: (i) agricultural increases
may not be realized because of delay in parallel actions such
as extension services, seeds and fertilizer provision and
credit; and (ii) road employment and construction targets may
not be met because of a possible shift to equipment-intensive
methods and/or budgetary limitations. By preparing the
project in close coordination with the parallel Agricultural
Development Project and applying relatively conservative
assumptions to production potential, this risk expressed in
(i) would be minimized. With regard to (ii), the program
scope takes into consideration the local capacity for execu-
tion and historic construction levels. Also, project prepara-
tion has focused upon defining when labor-intensive methods
are most appropriate.
Estimated Costs:                                  Local      Foreign    Total
I~(USS millions)---
I. Investment Program
Rural Roads Construction                      18.7         6.3       25.0
Rural Roads Rehabilitation/Improvement         5.2         1.7        6.9
Consulting services and technical
assistance                                   1.1         0.4       1.5
II.  Project Base Cost                             25.0         8.4       33.4
III. Price Contingencies                            6.2         2.1        8.3
IV.  Total Project Cost 1/                         31.2        10.5       41.7
Financing Plan
Government                                    19.7          -        19.7
Bank                                          11.5        10.5      22.0
Total Project Cost                            31.2        10.5       41.7
1/ net of taxes



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
(US$ millions)-
Annual                             2.0     3.9      5.1      4.8     3.8      2.4
Cumulative                         2.0     5.9    11.0    15.8    19.6    22.0
Estimated       All subprojects to be financed under the loan would be
Rate of         appraised according to agreed technical, economic and social
E_urn:          criteria and would, in general, have a minimum estimated rate
of return of 12%.   Roads in less productive areas, serving
substantial populations but not meeting the minimum economic
criteria applying traditional evaluation procedures, would be
reviewed on a social benefits basis. For such roads, the
maximum cost per person served should not exceed US$450, and
the total cost should not exceed 15% of the rural roads
program. Rural road rehabilitation works would not require
economic evaluation, but selection of subprojects would be
based on a technical review of existing conditions, and the
confirmation of traffic and road utilization.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 5494-ME, dated March 25, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TRE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECTI/
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A., (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$22.0 million to help finance a Chiapas Rural
Roads Project to be carried out by the Secretariat of Communications and
Transport (SCT). This project is associated with a Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project and together they represent the Bank's support for the
initial phase of the Chiapas Development Plan. The loan would be repaid over
15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.        Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the late
1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the -easy- and efficient possibil-
ities for import substitution, and faced a choice between outward-oriented
growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion of public sector
expenditures and rising subsidies and protection of inefficient domestic
production. By 1972 the choice was made to pursue the latter course. Public
sector expenditures as a percent of GDP more than doubled between 1970 and
1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME, p. 114). By 1976 Mexico
experienced a serious financial and economic crisis, followed by an even more
serious one six years later. The discovery of large oil reserves in the
mid-1970s led Mexico to a quick economic recovery, but it also removed the
urgency of policy reforms. Primary among these was the need to reduce
protection and the anti-export bias of the trade regime to thereby move over
time toward greater efficiency and international competitiveness. Oil revenues
also temporarily helped finance the public sector deficit and reduced the need
for greater fiscal restraint.
1/   Parts I, II and III of this Report are identical to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project (Report No. P-4023-ME) being distributed at the
same time as this report.



-2-
Developments During 1977-1982
4.        The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overeome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems,
including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances and relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of that
Administration (1978-80) GDP growth was high (8.5% a year), 2.5 million jobs
were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment and
savings in GDP surpassed historical levels, but the economy became increasingly
overheated.
5.         Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure was
felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative
ease of obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic situation began
to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2% of GDP, while the
deteriorating international oil market conditions caused large revenue
shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose
to just under 15Z of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and the trade deficit
reached record levels. External borrowing was used to finance part of the
domestic fiscal deficit and to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt
increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising international interest rates.
A stabilization program initiated by the Government in mid-1981 was not
sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign
loans and the increasing private capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety
over Mexico's financial troubles.
6.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustment granted
in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community became reluctant
to commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute shortage of foreign
exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of most of
Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on its refinancing.
Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the
nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion of
US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system
of exchange controls and quantitative trade restrictions covering an
unprecedented 100% of imports.
Recent Developments
7.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external



-3-
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The
Government's stabilization program supported by an EFF agreement, approved by
the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and
for the re-negotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which
amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide US$5
billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between August
23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight year period,
starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an
interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The
restructuring exercise included an understanding that the international banks
would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized.
At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private
sector interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on
such debt.
8.         A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 352 in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. It
depreciated at a rate of 13 centavos a day until December 1984, when the daily
slide was raised to 17 centavos. The free market rate had remained at about
Hex$150 per dollar until September 1983, when the authorities decided to let it
slide as much as the controlled rate. The differential between the two rates,
which in December 1982 stood close to 60%, is now down to less than 10%. Over
the past two years, the peso has gradually appreciated in real terms as
inflation in Mexico remained high. The Government increased the rate of slide
of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos in December 1984 and to 21
centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it closer to the expected
inflation differential between Mexico and its trading partners. Domestic
deposit interest rates were also raised in early March 19B5 from an average of
about 45% to nearly 50%.
9.        Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0% of GDP in 1982 to
8.5% in 1983, 5.5% in 1984 and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been
made during the past two years in meeting the program objectives although the
targets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were strengthened
considerably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7% of GDP in 1983
and an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher budget deficit
than the 1984 target was the much higher than expected interest payments on the
domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. However, recent
estimates suggest that real public investment -- encompassing states and local
governments -- may have been well in excess of the targets for 1984. The
authorities have given priority to completing projects that were already far



- 4 -
advanced and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign
exchange earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures are estimated
to have declined to about 72 of GDP in 1983-84, well below the 1982 level of
11.7%. The fiscal performance was also aided by significant price increases
for nearly all public goods and services, including petroleum products,
electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a
substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies, including
those provided in the form of low interest rates.
10.       The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with
the current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the
availability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its
international reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had
accumulated in 1982. The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was
US$4.2 billion for the year--below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the
stabilization program. The errors and omissions account of the balance of
payments dropped from US$8 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$1.4 billion in
1983, largely reflecting the decline in unrecorded capital outflows. The swing
in the current account was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of
merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion representing a decline of about US$7
billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the large devaluation of the
peso and the quantitative restrictions all contributed to this. The balance of
payments remained strong in 1984, with a current account surplus of US$3.7
billion, and a further US$2.5 billion were added to the nation's foreign
exchange reserves, which at the year's end are estimated at about 74 months of
imports. Although imports recovered considerably, a rapid rise in non-oil
exports, particularly in the first quarter of 1984, ensured that the trade
surplus remained at the same level as in 1983, i.e., about US$13 billion.
Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was also strong, and helped in
alleviating unemployment. These favorable external trends during late 1983 and
early 1984 weakened in mid-1984, owing to an appreciating real exchange rate.
11.      Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through mid-1984.
It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982 to 80Z and 59% in 1983 and 1984.
The main factors in this were restrained fiscal and monetary policies and
moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings into the banking system
continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial influence of the exchange rate and
interest rate policies. The impact of the severe and sudden cuts in public
expenditure and imports on economic growth in 1983 was serious when GDP
declined by over 5%. However, the economic recovery in 1984 was stronger than
the Government's expectations: GDP is estimated to have risen by about 3.5%
compared to the earlier estimate of only 1%. Since the latter half of 1984,
fiscal, monetary, and external trends have signaled a possible resurgence of
inflationary pressures.



- 5 -
12.      The Government also took steps to regain the conf idence of both
domestic and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of
nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law. Negotiations with commercial banks and other private creditors have been
completed for the refinancing of nearly half of the total of US$11.6 billion of
private sector obligations at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12
years, with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Goveinment undertook the
restructuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official
credit agencies abroad. The Government has also transferred back to private
ownership most of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial
banks prior to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have
been beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.
13.      The general improvement in the Mexican economy has been widely noted,
particularly by the international banking community. Mainly for this reason,
the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carried
much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983 (10 year maturity, 5-3/4
year grace period, and a spread -if 1+Z over LIBOR or 1-1/8% over prime). The
negotiations between the Goveriment and foreign commercial banks on the
rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually completed. The draft
agreement, covering close to US$50 billion, has been submitted by the Banks'
Advisory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders) to some 500 smaller,
regional banks for their acceptance. Under the proposed terms, the previously
not-rescheduled debt (amounting to about $20 billion), which is due for
repayment in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched over fourteen years.
The maturities of the previously rescheduled debt coming due in 1987-90 will be
stretched over eleven years. The 1983 syndicate loan of $5 billion will be
restructured, after prepayment of $1 billion, to carry terms identical to the
1984 syndicate loan. In summary, the pending rescheduling agreement will
stretch maturities of US$50 billion public debt in such a way that the debt
service remains virtually constant between 1985-1998, in contrast to the
present situation where 75% of the debt service is due in 1986-89. The banks
will have the choice of LIBOR, a domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate.
These terms are based on the understanding that the Government will continue to
adhere to prudent economic policies.2/
Medium-term Prospects
14.      The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longe.-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
2/ As of this writing, the rescheduling agreement was expected to be signed
by end-March, following the agreement with the IMF on the third year
EFF, announced March 25, 1985.



- 6 -
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the years
ahead include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for
1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under
4%), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed interpersonal and
interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent economy with a
strong anti-export bias.
15.      The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through basic
needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and decentralization of
economic activity. The basic elements of policies to address structural
problems are mentioned in the NDP and further details on specific programs and
schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the sectoral plans which were
prepared subsequently.
16.      Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains favorable.  Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued
efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price
distortions. Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial since only a
strong and dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the
present depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus
required for the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment,
the commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real
terms, and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. Mexico will
benefit directly from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world
financial markets (a one percentage point drop means a savings of about USS800
million in overall interest payments which compares to a loss of $550 million
in gross export revenues that would result from a one dollar drop in the export
price of oil).
17.       Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year--the post-War average for
Mexico --towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a
sustained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth
pattern. Fiscal discipline, in the absence of improved domestic efficiency and
export development, is likely to entail a prolonged period of slow growth,
characterized by insufficient labor absorption in internationally competitive
activities, by domestic price distortions, and by continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and by about a similar amount in 1984.  With an expected net new borrowing
of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to GDP would
decline steadily from 41% in 1984 to 33% by 1990. The debt service ratio,
after the proposed rescheduling, is projected to peak at 47% in 1988,
thereafter it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.



- 7 -
19.       At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3X (excluding undisbursed). The Bank share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good medium and
long term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
20.       As of February 28, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,488.8 million, of which US$2,031.7 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 23% for industry, 11% for power, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11% has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, vocational
training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of February 28, 1985
21.       Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather
than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78
to US$448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again
causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds, consequently, disburse-
ments in FY83 declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was
established in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart
funding constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disburse-
ments during 1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35% over
disbursements in 1983.



-8-
IPC Operations
23.       As of February 28, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in
preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery,
equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for
efficient import substitution and for improvements in -he utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility
(including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is
providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted
under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooTxration
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through
assistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and
sector work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank
lending to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of policy
reforms needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy
conditionality affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it.
SpecIfic policy reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the
Government, to be conducted in parallel with the processing of lending
operations, would cover priority macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such
as interest rate policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction and export
development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sectorfs crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as
extension, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-
generating investments in rural areas.  The Bank has made 14 loans in FYs78-83
totalling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricul-
tural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan
for a rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation
rehabilitation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a



- 9 -
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1983 and a $300 million Eighth
Agricultural Credit Project in June 1984. Projects for irrigation
rehabilitation, extension and research (seed multiplication) and agricultural
credit are in various stages of preparation.
26.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the development of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small-
and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)
were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan
for a vocational training project, which is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A
modification in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive
Directors in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund to help
satisfy the foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan
for an Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third
Small-and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the
Executive Directors in FY83. Follow-up projects to support expansion of small
and medium scale mining enterprises and vocational training are under
preparation.
27.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. Two
highway sector projects (FY79 and FY84), the fourth railway project (FY81) and
an industrial ports project (FY84) support these goals. The first and second
medium-size cities water supply and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce
the planning, management and finance of specialized water supply and sewerage
institutions at the federal and municipal levels, and contribute to the
establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs; a third project was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983. A fifth railway project
is under preparation.
28.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982. A low income housing
project is under preparation.



- 10 -
29.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE
(Centro de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project
preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at
courses on urban and regional development, agriculture, rural development and
agro-industries. The Bank has also assisted the Mexican authorities in
training personnel for managing water supply and industrial credit projects.
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.billion as of December 31, 1984. Over 50Z of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans
for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural
and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and
hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural
development project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's
staff and for which the Bank is acting as croperating institution for
administering the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.
PART III: THE CRIAPAS DEVELOPMENT PLAM
The Setting: Chiapas and the Southeastern Region of Mexico
32.       The Southeast, which includes the States of Tabasco, Veracruz,
Campeche, Quintana Roo, Oaxaca and Chiapas, is the least developed region of
Mexico. Until the recent discovery and production of oil in Tabasco,
Veracruz and Chiapas, this region grew at a lower rate than the rest of the
country. Despite many natural resources, the Southeast suffers from socio-
economic constraints which have hampered development efforts (serious infra-
structure bottlenecks, shortage of skilled manpower and underdeveloped human
resources). The region also has the highest concentration of indigenous
population. Within the Southeast, Chiapas is perceived as a region of great
economic potential, especially in agriculture, tourism and agroindustries.
As a result, it has recently received priority attention from the Government.
33.       Chiapas is the most rural 3tate in Mexico with a population of 2.3
million, of which about 25% is indigenous. It is one of the poorest and
least developed States in the country, with a per capita annual income of



- 11 -
about US$350, compared with the national average of US$2,250. However, it is
well endowed with natural resources which have not yet been fully exploited
or explored. About one third of the population is estimated to live in urban
areas which is about half the average national ratio. Agriculture represents
about 36% of the State's GNP, accounting for 80% of all employment. Ser-
vices, commerce, construction and transport account for 31% of GNP and
industry, mining (petroleum) and hydro-electricity for the remaining 33%.
34.       A poor intrastate communications system has kept factor mobility
low, and thus contributed to sharp income and social disparities between
subregions (the Coast, the Central Depression, the Central Highlands and the
Tropical Forest). There is a danger that plans for the accelerated develop-
ment of Chiapas, if not properly conceived and managed, could exacerbate
these disparities because the most promising investment opportunities lie in
the relatively flat Coastal areas and Central Depression (irrigation and
drainage) where incomes are already higher and population densities lower
than average. The least developed and relatively densely populated parts of
the State are the less fertile and more fragile sloping areas in the Central
Highlands (the Altos) where communications are difficult. The Government
aims at pursuing a more balanced growth pattern, with priority focus on tree
crops, rainfed agriculture and transport in the Central Highlands. A major
effort is being made to identify and prepare projects that will yield
substantial and sustainable income increases in those areas. Its initial
stages are being supported through the studies component of the proposed
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project.
Regional Development Strategy
35.       The Government requested Bank assistance in the formulation of a
strategy for the development of Chiapas in September 1980. The following
year, a multisectoral Bank mission visited the State and its report contrib-
uted to the formulation of the Government's first initiative in regional
development policy and the Chiapas Development Plan, launched by the Presi-
dent of Mexico in May 1983. In 1984, a similar plan was formulated for the
neighboring State of Oaxaca. Other State development plans are under
preparation.
36.       The new regional orientation in Mexico's approach to development
planning also required institutional changes to ensure the proper coordina-
tion of Federal and State Government activities. As of 1981, Development
Planning Committees (COPLADES) were established in each State to plan,
monitor and evaluate the activities of regional branches of central Federal
Government, with the State Governor as chairman and the Regional Delegate of
the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP) as technical secretary.
The central Government agencies are also represented on such Committees.
These Committees formulate and propose annually to the Federal and State
Governments the investment, expenditure and financing programs for the State,
and oversee the execution of regional development plans. Furthermore, to
formalize the coordination of development planning and project implementation
at the State level, Coordinating Agreements are entered into between the
Federal Government and each State (Convenios Unicos de Desarrollo, CUDs).
Such an agreement between the Federal Government and the State of Chiapas was



- 12 -
signed in February 1984. Within this framework, specific coordinating
agreements would be entered into for the implementation of the proposed
parallel Agricultural and Rural Roads Projects (Section 3.02(a)(ii) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
37.       Chiapas contains a number of unique ecological reserves which are
important in terms of wildlife and plants, as well as for watershed manage-
ment, soil conservation, water quality, fisheries and tourism potential.
With Bank assistance, the Government has established an environmental review
process applicable to all construction works, with the Secretariat for Urban
Development and Ecology (SEDUE) acting as the responsible agency, to manage
the impact of the proposed investments under the Chiapas Development Plan on
the delicate ecological balance and on the indigenous population in the
State.
Program Objectives
38.       To address the current uneven pattern of the State's development,
and to help integrate the economically marginal regions into the development
process, the Chiapas Development Plan aims at promoting greater social and
economic equality between the various subregions and productivity improvement
generally. These objectives would be achieved through a package of carefully
balanced and integrated plans for the development of physical and social
infrastructure and directly productive activities, mainly in agriculture,
supported by improvements and expansion in rural communications system. The
first stage of the Plan was initiated in 1983 and is expected to be
implemented over the remainder of this decade. Bank participation in the
financing of this first stage includes the proposed priority Agricultural and
Rural Roads Projects, as well as measures to help monitor the program's
impact on the natural environment. The Government will finance basic infra-
structure components and special assistance subprograms for the indigenous
population mainly concentrated in the Altos subregion. Under the proposed
Agricultural Development Project, the Bank would support this objective by
helping finance soil conservation structures and related technical assist-
ance, which are critical for the sustained development of this subregion.
The second stage of the Chiapas Development Plan would focus in particular on
the promotion of agroindustries, fisheries, forestry and energy development.
Future Bank participation would be dependent upon the identification of
suitable investment opportunities through the studies component included
under the proposed project.
39.       Execution of the investments supported by the Bank would be the
responsibility of Federal sector agencies involved, the Secretariats of
Agriculture and Water Resources (SARE) and Communications and Transport
(SCT). This would include physical planning, construction and supervision.
Implementation of appropriate environmental protection measures would be the
responsibility of the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE).
At the Federal level, a special multisectoral Directing Council for implemen-
tation of the Chiapas Plan, composed of representatives of all the agencies
involved, would provide overall guidance. At the State level, COPLADE would
coordinate and monitor all project activities (para. 36). Counterpart
funding for the proposed agricultural and rural roads projects would come



- 13 -
from the budgets of SARH and SCT and the Regional Development Program (PDR).
Agricultural credit would be financed outside the Chiapas Plan budget through
existing credit programs in the State which are adequate to meet financing
requirements under the Plan.
Program risks
40.       The Chiapas Plan is the first integrated regional development
operation in Mexico within a new and largely untested institutional
framework. Inevitably the new institutions are of uneven quality. The
Federal and local executing agencies within the CUD/COPLADE system (para. 36)
would receive substantial inputs through the various projects to improve
their institutional and budgetary capabilities. Despite those mitigating
measures, the execution of this complex multi-sectoral program entails a
certain risk. However, the risk is considered inevitable and acceptable if
the Bank is to support Mexico's renewed regional development efforts in a
substantive and timely manner.
PART IV - TRANSPORT SECTOR IN CHIAPAS 3/
A. Background
41.       The transport system has been one of the most limiting factors of
the growth and integration of the specific subregions as well as of Chiapas
as a whole, influenced by the State's particularly difficult topography and
its relative distance from the more developed and populated coastal plateau
of Mexico. As a result, the sector not only lags in its role as catalyst for
development, but also in servicing local demand.
42.       The transport network of Chiapas consists mainly of about 8,600 km
of roads, including 2,840 km of paved roads, one Pacific Coast port, 540 km
of railway lines, and two major airports. The construction of the network is
relatively recent, with major highway connections having been completed in
the last five years. Most of the rural roads network of 4,000 km was
constructed over the last ten years. The network is still sparse, as
evidenced by the fact that an estimated 500,000 people are without all-
weather access.
43.       Road transport is the principal transport mode for Chiapas.  The
three main axes are the Pan-American Highway, running from the Oaxaca state
border to the Guatemalan border; the Pacific Coastal Highway, from Oaxaca to
Ciudad Hidalgo at the Guatemalan border; and the North Highway, running
north-south from the Tabasco state border to Ixtapa and Escopetazo on the
Pan-American Highway east of Tuxtla Gutierrez. While, until recently, most
3/ A discussion of the transport sector and related issues has been
presented in recent FY84 President's Reports for Loans 2428-ME (Second
Highway Project) and 2450-ME (Industrial Port Project) approved in
May/June 1984 and no substantial changes have occurred. This report thus
focuses on the transport sector in Chiapas.



- 14 -
of the rest of Mexico lacked only rural roads, Chiapas still faced the
problem of a limited trunk network. Rural roads funds were directed at
finishing the State's trunk network, resulting in many low-standard roads
with significant traffic volumes.
B. Investment priorities
44.       Transport investment needs in the State are concentrated in the
road subsector and include: (i) completing the trunk network, to provide a
direct connection between the main production areas of the Central Depression
and the Pacific Coastal highway; (ii) the upgrading of low-standard roads
with high traffic, especially in the Central Depression, with modernization
of existing federal trunk roads, and improved rehabilitation and maintenance
of existing rural roads; and (iii) the extension of the rural roads network
to potentially productive areas and outlying communities. These needs, with
regard to the federal and state trunk network, are adequately treated in
SCT's indicative 1984-1988 investment program, taking into account the over-
all national budgetary restrictions. To help to determine future investment
priorities for all modes, the Government agreed, at negotiations, to carry
out a review of the transport investment priorities in the State and complete
a road master plan for Chiapas by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.06 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
C. The Rural Roads Sector
General
45.       Prior to 1970, Mexico's road-building program was directed at
developing the Federal and State trunk network, while rural access was
largely ignored and only 12% of the total roads network (8,500 km of a total
of 71,500 km) were rural access roads. As a result, some 90,000 commu-
nities,4/ representing 91% of the communities in Mexico, lacked all weather
access to the trunk network and the national economy. In 1970, rural
development was given greater priority, and new strategies were accordingly
devised with the objectives of better integrating the many small subsistence
farmers into the economy, stimulating economic growth in rural areas and
providing short-term employment. A key element in the rural development
strategy was the improvement of rural access, especially to areas with
population concentrations of over 350 people. Since 1970, the construction
of rural roads has been executed and financed by a variety of agencies. The
principal executing agency was the former Secretariat of Human Settlements
and Public Works (SAHOP), but SCT now carries out the program. In addition,
SARH has constructed thousands of kilometers of roads, mainly farm service
roads, as part of its investment programs.
4/  82,000 conmunities with up to 500 inhabitants and 8,000 with over 500
inhabitants.



- 15 -
Rural Roads in Chiapas
46.       Under the various construction programs, about 1,800 km of rural
roads were built in Chiapas between 1977 and 1983, excluding SARH roads. The
average annual rate of construction was about 250 km per year. The selection
of road projects has been largely ad hoc, and presently there is no consis-
tent methodology for selecting roads and establishing priorities.
47.       In Chiapas, the division of technical and financial respon-
sibilities for selecting, designing, executing and maintaining the various
roads is complex and has developed as a result of the different road invest-
ment programs which were started by federal, state and quasi-public enti-
ties. This has led to the differing construction and maintenance policies
and capabilities of the various principal road-building agencies at the
federal, state and local levels which build roads relating to their major
investment projects. The Federal Government has taken action to consolidate
the various rural roads programs, so that SCT will have primary responsi-
bility for construction and COPLADE for identification. Following the recent
reorganization of transport sector responsibilities under SCT (1983), a more
favorable trend is developing since the investments focus more on upgrading
and rehabilitation, and the network is being consolidated under SCT, includ-
ing the rural roads program.
48.       The state office of SCT has had long experience in the planning,
design and construction of rural roads of the type and extent included in
this project, in administering associated construction contracts and in
carrying out such works through force account methods. However, while rural
roads constructed by SCT are designed to appropriate standards, there is a
lack of consistency between SCT and SARH rural road design standards. The
project aims at promoting consistency in design, construction and mainte-
nance standards. In order to promote this objective, the Government
confirmed, at negotiations, that, by December 31, 1987, it will carry out a
review of the construction and maintenance practices regarding rural roads in
the State under the jurisdiction of SCT and SARH, with a view to further
rationalizing rural roads designs, specifications, construction methods and
maintenance practices, and assignment of maintenance responsibilities between
agencies to ensure effective maintenance (Section 3.08 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
49.       With respect to maintenance practices, and due to the fact that,
since 1971, the Government's attention has been directed toward the construc-
tion of rural roads under different road investment programs, rural road
maintenance is lacking in Chiapas as well as nationwide. To address this
problem under the proposed project, the Government will review construction
and maintenance practices in Chiapas and develop a plan to allocate
maintenance responsibilities (para. 48). With over 80,000 km built in a
decade, the requirements for maintenance, particularly periodic maintenance,
spot improvements and rehabilitation have accumulated rapidly. The basic
deficiency is inadequate budgets. It is estimated that, in Chiapas, the



- 16 -
average annual cost of appropriate routine and periodic maintenance is about
US$875 equivalent per kilometer, of which 50% represents periodic and
emergency maintenance. Taking into account deferred needs, it is expected
that average budgetary levels per km should be even higher. The Government
has recognized the problem and, for 1984, budgeted Mex$ 285 million (US$400
per km equivalent) for SCT in Chiapas. On a national level, SCT has
projected substantial real increases in its 1985-1988 investment program for
rural road maintenance and rehabilitation, reaching about US$750 equivalent
per km by 1988. During that period, the Government is also expected to
permit more flexibility in the use of the rural roads construction budget in
order to meet deferred rehabilitation requirements. At negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it will provide adequate resources to meet rural
road maintenance requirements in Chiapas, including annual routine
maintenance of all rural roads within the SCT network. In addition,
sufficient funds will be provided to carry out, under the SCT Rural Road
Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance Program, an average of 350 km per
year in 1985 through 1987, gradually increasing to 500 km per year by 1988
(Section 3.04(iu) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). This provision would
represent an annual budget of US$700 per km equivalent by 1988. As
maintenance budgets are increased, it will also be necessary to improve rural
road inventory and project identification procedures. In Chiapas, the
initial coverage for the road inventory has been completed and the Government
agreed at negotiations that it will update and furnish to the Bank by
November 30, 1985, the inventory of rural roads in the State, and thereafter
update the inventory on an annual basis (Section 3.04(i) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
D. Rural Transport Services
50.       Transport services in Chiapas are provided largely by the private
sector. The motorization rate is one of the lowest in Mexico. Institution-
ally, the transport services sector appears strong and adequately organized.
Regulatory solutions to problems on the State and Federal highway network are
sought through a participatory planning process in which the various interest
groups involved are represented. However, little is known about the trans-
port services provided on unimproved or recently improved rural roads, and
how these services may affect the way in which the benefits of road improve-
ments are passed on to rural residents. To fill this gap, it was agreed at
negotiations that the Government would carry out a study of rural transport
services to be completed by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.07 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
E.   Past Bank Participation and Experience in the Transport Sector
51.       The Bank has had an extensive involvement in the Mexican transport
sector: (i) nine highway loans have been made, focusing upon the trunk
network, the first in 1960 and the ninth (a Second Highway Sector Project -
Loan 2428-ME) in 1984; (ii) four railway loans, with the Fourth Railway
Project (Loan 1929-ME) in execution; (iii) two port loans, including a port
preparation loan in 1981 (Loan 1964-ME) and the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial



- 17 -
Ports Project (Loan 2450-ME) in 1984; (iv) an airport project (Loan 1022-ME),
approved in 1974 and completed in 1982. In June 1982, the Bank issued a
completion report for the Seventh Highway Project, which concluded that,
although the quality of works executed is satisfactory, cost increases,
construction delays and insufficient budget allocations resulting from the
recent economic crisis in Mexico have generally resulted in delayed
completion of Bank projecte.
52.       Rural roads construction has received Bank financing under agricul-
tural projects, but not under transport projects. Most of such roads were
built by SARH and were farm service roads, not community access roads which
were more typical of the main rural roads program. Bank agricultural
projects have supported the PIDER program, which included community access
roads. The reviews of the PIDER projects identified transport issues that
could best be handled under specific transport lending, particularly with
regard to road selection criteria and maintenance budgets and practices.
Thus, it was considered appropriate to prepare a rural roads project in
parallel with an agricultural development project, to continue the integrated
development framework of earlier projects, while allowing for a more focused
treatment of important transport issues.
F. Bank Lending Strategy
53.       The Bank's role in the transport sector has been expanded because
of the measures taken by the Government on issues which have been of concern
to the Bank during its long standing involvement in the sector, particularly
with regard to sector pricing and institutional reorganization.   Further-
more, a constructive dialogue on sector policies has been initiated between
the Bank and the Government which would be supported through the Bank's lend-
ing and sector work program. The sector lending strategy, in accordance with
the Bank's overall objectives for lending to Mexico, is to develop relatively
quick disbursing loan operations which focus upon short-term investment in
maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization, and upon making prior invest-
ments operational while assisting the Government, through the new Planning
Directorate in SCT, in reassessing the medium- and long-term need for major
new investments.
54.       The proposed Rural Roads Project has a more limited focus and
represents, together with the proposed Agriculture Project for Chiapas, a
pilot effort to support comprehensive regional development. As with other
lending operations to the sector, this project attempts to achieve a better
balance between new investment and maintenance and rehabilitation. It is
expected that the lessons of this projert will sorve as the basis for other
regional development plans being prepared, as well as for the national rural
roads program in general.



- 18 -
PART V - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
55.       The proposed project is part of the long-term development strategy
for the State of Chiapas (para. 38), first formulated with Bank assistance in
1981 and subsequently embodied in the Government's Chiapas Development Plan
(1983). Two priority elements were selected by the Bank as crucial to the
initial stages of the Program and which provided an appropriate instrument
for Bank financing: agricultural development and rural roads. Therefore, two
projects, the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project and the Chiapas Rural
Roads Project, have been prepared in parallel. This project was appraised in
March 1984 and negotiated from February 25 through March 20, 1985 jointly
with the Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-4023-ME dated March
29, 1985. The Mexican Delegation was led by Mr. Luis Nava (NAFINSA) and
included representatives from the Secretariats of Finance, Programming and
Budgeting, Agriculture and Transport. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled
"Chiapas Rural Roads Project" (Report No. 5494-ME, dated March 25, 1985) is
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary
project data are included in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Composition:
56.       The proposed Rural Roads Project would support the development of
Chiapas through the implementation of a program for rural roads construction,
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance, coordinated with other
simultaneous social and economic development efforts under the Chiapas Plan.
The project would provide for: (a) the construction of about 1,000 km of
rural roads; (b) the rehabilitation and improveaent of approximately 2,000 km
of existing rural roads; and (c) related consulting services and technical
assistance. The selected roads would provide the necessary integration of
the State, reduce transport bottlenecks and costs between complementary
regions of the low lands coast, the central plateau and valleys of the Selva,
while providing access to heretofore inaccessible areas of the State with
good development potential. Where appropriate, the project would promote the
use of labor-based construction techniques to offer increased employment
opportunities for unemployed and underemployed local residents.
57.       To ensure the full realization of expected benefits, the Rural
Roads Project is designed to support Government efforts to: (a) strengthen
State planning and decision-making capabilities in Chiapas to a level
commensurate with its increased responsibilities under the Chiapas Develop-
ment Plan; (b) improve administration and implementation capabilities for the
planning, programing, construction, rehabilitation, improvement and mainte-
nance programs for rural roads in Chiapas; (c) assess rural transport
services for freight and passengers in Chiapas; and (d) extend lessons
learned in Chiapas to other states.



- 19 -
(1) Rural Roads Construction Component
58.       The proposed project provides for the construction of 1,000 km of
rural roads over the project period, with an average construction program of
about 200-250 km per year. This is based on the historical average of about
250 km per year for Chiapas, and an appropriate overall mix of road invest-
ments in Chiapas by SCT and other agencies. Within this program, priority
subprojects were selected, based upon population density, construction costs
and transport needs. An initial 269 km were confirmed for inclusion under
the project through economic or social evaluations to serve population
centers of 100 to 6,100 people. Subprojects for subsequent years would be
selected on the basis of agreed upon procedures (paras. 69 and 73). Detailed
engineering designs for the first 120 km of works comprising the first year's
construction program, and included for financing under this project, were
reviewed in detail and were found to be satisfactory. Such designs would be
completed prior to Board presentation. A number of identified subprojects
(52 km) have been postponed, pending an environmental review by SEDUE,
because they are located in ecologically sensitive areas (para. 75).
(ii) Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Improvement Component
59.       This component focuses on road segments which require priority
rehabilitation, improvement and/or periodic maintenance works. A field
review showed that the initial works identified (totalling about 300 kms)
would vary in cost from US$3,000 to US$4,900 equivalent per km. At
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the rural road inventory has been
completed. The first year's construction program for rehabilitation and
improvement works will comprise about 250 km. The annual workload should
then increase gradually to about 500 km per year by 1988 with a total of 2000
km during the project period (para. 49).
Ciii) Consulting Services and Technical Assistance Component
60.       The project includes consulting services for detailed engineering
for rural road construction and technical assistance to SCT, including
domestic and foreign consulting services, to support preparation of:
(a) review of transport investment priorities in the State, including
preparation of a road master plan for Chiapas; (b) study tours within Mexico
and abroad and provision of seminars at SCT headquarters in Mexico City on
rural road planning, construction and maintenance; (c) carrying out of
appropriate pilot projects in Chiapas using non-standard technology and
equipment in order to improve rural road construction and maintenance
techniques; and (d) preparation of revised manuals of rural road construction
and maintenance practices, as well as new manuals and guidelines, where
justified. This program of work would be the responsibility of SCT, in
coordination with COPLADE, mainly utilizing their own staff. However, since
there is insufficient expertise and capabilities to carry out all the studies
planned, the project provides for domestic and/or foreign consulting
services, which would be financed through the proposed loan. The terms of
reference of studies included under the project were agreed to during
negotiations.



- 20 -
Project Cost and Financing
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$41.7 million
equivalent, including price contingencies of about US$8.3 million equivalent
and foreign exchange costs of about US$10.5 million. Price contingencies are
calculated at 5% for 1985, 7.5X for 1986, 82 for 1987-90 and 5% thereafter,
based on Bank guidelines. Physical contingencies are not estimated
separately because the costs are calculated on an average per kilometer
basis. The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million would be made to NAFINSA,
with SCT as the executing agency. The Borrower would, through contractual
arrangements on the same terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan,
transfer loan funds to the Government for the carrying out of the Project
(Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). SCT would act in coordination
with COPLADE to carry out some technical components (para. 60). The
remaining funds required are expected to come from annual federal budgetary
allocations for SCT. The project would require about five years to execute,
with a completion date of June 30, 1990. At negotiations, the Federal
Goveriment confirmed that sufficient counterpart funds as well as other
resources required for the purposes of the project in 1985 and thereafter
would be provided in a timely manner.
Procurement
62.       All civil works included in the project would be executed by SCT.
All procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank policy, and
following procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In the case of rural roads
included in the project, the works are of two general types, construction and
rehabilitation. Civil works for road construction would be grouped into
contract packages ranging in size from US$75,000 to US$700,000 equivalent in
order to realize economies of scale while, at the same time, providing a
range of small to large sized contracts that could be executed by local
contracting firms. Contractors would be prequalified using SCT's standard
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. The packages of construction
works that would be carried out by contractors are relatively small in value,
would employ light or minor quantities of equipment and are scattered
geographically throughout the state. Foreign contractors, therefore, are
unlikely to be interested in this type of work. Special efforts would
probably be necessary to interest domestic contractors from States some
distance from Chiapas. The rehabilitation works would be carried out, with
rare exceptions, by SCT through force account. In some cases, small local
contractors would be used to execute minor works, to provide equipment or to
act as labor contractors. For these reasons, civil works that would be
contracted would be tendered using LCB. In carrying out the project's
technical assistance components, SCT would employ consultants to the exLent
needed in accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.09 and Schedule 2 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). With respect to the acquisition of the necessary
rights-of-way and rights-of-access for the first year construction program,
during negotiations the Government confirmed that all necessary action has
been taken for this purpose.



- 21 -
63.       Local procurement procedures used in Mexico were reviewed in detail
and were found to be generally satisfactory. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government that certain procedures now followed would be
modified in order to agree more closely with the Bank's procurement guide-
lines and policies. In particular, additional time for prequalification of
contractors and for bid advertisement and preparation will be allowed to
increase bidding opportunities and permit more careful bid preparation.
Disbursements and Special Account
64.       Bank funds are expected to be disbursed over a six-year period.
Based on this schedule, the closing date for the loan would be June 30,
1991 (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Expenditures for civil
works included in the approved program and carried out under the project as
well as for the technical assistance components may be reimbursed from the
Special Account (para. 65) on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Disbursements would be on the basis of 50% of total net costs for civil works
(rural road construction, rehabilitation and improvement) and 100% of total
expenditures (excluding taxes) for both foreign and local currency
expenditures for consulting services for detailed engineering and for
technical assistance (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       To facilitate loan disbursements, NAFINSA, the Borrower, would set
up a Special Account which would be operated in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 3 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Satisfactory auditing arrangements for the Special
Account were agreed during negotiations (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 4.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
66.       SCT is proceeding with the preparation and execution of the first
year's construction program. Between July 1, 1984 and the anticipated date
of loan signature, approximately 80 km of new construction and 150 km of
rural road rehabilitation and improvement works are expected to be
completed. On this basis, the loan would include retroactive financing of up
to US$2.2 million for expenditures in the approved program that are incurred
after July 1, 1984 but before the expected date of loan signature (Schedule
1, para. 2(a) to the draft Loan Agreement).
Auditing
67.       Appropriate auditing arrangements were agreed during negotiations
for project accounts maintained by SCT to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures of the project (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and
4.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 22 -
Project Administration and Execution
68.       The proposed project would be implemented within the overall organ-
izational framework established by the Government for the cc:rdination of the
Chiapas Development Program (paras. 36 and 39). SCT will be responsible for
the execution of the project, except for some technical components which it
would execute in cooperation with COPLADE (Section 3.01 of the draft
Cuarantee Agreement). During negotiations, the detailed implementation
schedule, drawn on the baqis of Chiapas' overall construction program, was
reviewed and agreed upon.
Subproject Evaluation Procedures
69.       In order to meet the need for a consistent methodology for road
selection and definition of priorities, COPLADE staff capabilities would be
strengthened through this project with the support of SCT, for the
application of adequate subproject evaluation procedures. It was agreed
during negotiations that, on an annual basis during the project, SCT would
prepare preliminary cost estimates for candidate subprojects and, then, SCT
and COPLADE, with the assistance of SARH, would carry out the economic and
social evaluation in accordance with agreed procedures. Road subprojects
with a minimum estimated economic rate of return of 12% would be considered
eligible, and summary data sheets would be submitted to the Bank for review
and comments. Social criteria (para. 73) were also agreed upon at
negotiations in order to include a limited number of roads which serve
significant population groups in less productive areas (Section 3.03 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). SCT would then prepare final engineering in
accordance with agreed upon design standards.
70.       For rural road rehabilitation subprojects, it was agreed at
negotiations that, beginning November 30, 1985 and annually thereafter, SCT
would carry out a rural road inventory in the State in accordance with agreed
upon procedures and would select priority rehabilitation and improvement
works from that survey (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). A
summary program would be presented to the Bank annually for review and
comment and, after approval, financing would be provided for a portion of
that program's budget.
Benefits and Justification
71.       The problem of poor access to a large proportion of the State's
rural population has been well documented, as have been the benefits
generated by previous rural road construction works in Chiapas. Because of
its comprehensive geographic coverage, the types of benefits to be generated
by the proposed project would vary in accordance with the specific needs of
the communities to be served. For most of the subprojects, the benefits from
lower transport costs, more reliability, and better access to services, tech-
nical assistance and farm inputs would be realized in the form of improved
use of existing cultivated lands, through reduced losses and higher yields,
as measured by the incremental net value of additional production. Similar-
ly, it is expected that, in many cases, the area of cultivated land would be
expanded. In addition, other benefits, more difficult to quantify, should be



- 23 -
realized as outlying small communities, particularly indigenous communities
with limited production potential, become better integrated with the main
road network and receive better access to social services (e.g., education
and health services) as well as to job opportunities in other areas with
greater economic potential.
-2.       With a few exceptions, the road subprojects proposed for construc-
tion in the first year lie outside the primary zone of influence of the
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project. The road network for the areas
affected by that project are either largely in place (needing rehabilitation
in some instances) or would be provided as a byproduct of the drainage
structures to be built. Therefore, the zones of influence under the Rural
Roads Project represent the next geographic areas for development, where
access must be provided before agricultural development benefits can be
realized. A staged screening methodology has been applied for the selection
of the subprojects included in the first year program. The main economic
benefit is increased agricultural production which has been estimated based
on farm models relating to the associated Agricultural Development Project.
The proposed new construction subprojects for the first year's program have
estimated rates of return generally in excess of 20%. Agreed upon procedures
will be applied in the following years of the project to select subsequent
eligible works.
73.       Although the principal criterion for accepting a road for financing
under the project is the effect upon production increases, it has been
apparent, through the preparation of the project, that there are areas of
Chiapas with high population concentration but with limited agricultural or
other natural resource potential. Particularly, in certain areas of the
State, such as Los Altos, roads are planned as part of an effort to integrate
remote and/or indigenous ccmmunities with the rest of the state and the
country. Many of the benefits of these roads are difficult to calculate,
such as access to health and educational services and to employment oppor-
tunities outside the immediate zone of influence. The beneficial impact of
such roads has been documented in prior research conducted in Chiapas. For
inclusion in the Bank-financed program, it was agreed during negotiations
that the total of such subprojects would not exceed 15% of the construction
program, and that each road would not exceed a construction coct of USS450
per person served (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). This
indicator is based on assumptions regarding potential increases in community
earnings through outside employment, some increases in the value of local
production, and the potential magnitude of other social benefits compared
with the average cost of rural road construction. For an average 8 km road,
the minimum population required would be 440 people with higher populations
required for higher cost or longer road sections. For the initial year's
program, two subprojects totaling 19 km are included based on a social
justification.
74.       The intended beneficiaries of this project are mostly small farmers
and "ejidatarios"_/in the State of Chiapas who either lack adequate road
5/ -Ejidatarios,' members of an "ejido," a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.



- 24 -
access or whose road access has deteriorated. Typically, households in such
areas of Chiapas, for which agriculture is the main source of income, earned
about US$750 per household, or US$135 per capita in 1980. A significant
proportion of the beneficiaries are expected to be from the large, ethnically
distinct indigenous population. With regard to the initial 31 subprojects
(269 km), the total affected population would be about 40,000 people.
Environmental Protection Measures
75.       The impact of rural road improvements upon the physical environment
is minimized by the design standards and construction methods to be applied
under the proposed project, which are based upon the principle of providing
access to existing rural communities at minimum cost, while avoiding
disturbances to the natural terrain and excessive future road maintenance
costs. In order to provide for application of adequate protective measures,
it was agreed at negotiations that a subproject would not be considered
eligible for financing under the project until SEDUE clearance has been
issued (Section 3.03(a) (iii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Risks
76.       The proposed project will be executed within the institutional
framework set up for the implementation of the Chiapas Development Plan
(para. 68). Despite the noted commitment of the Government, the execution of
the program would entail a certain degree of risk with implications for the
availability of adequate and timely counterpart funding. These risks would
be, however, considerably lower than those which would exist if no attempts
were made to control the ongoing uneven development of the State.
Furthermore, the Government is committed to strengthen the institutional and
budgetary capabilities of the various agencies involved (para. 40).
77.       The economic evaluation assumes an incremental change in farm
production patterns as a result of road improvements. While this increment
has been estimated conservatively, there is a risk that the expected yield
increases and/or increases in area cultivated would not occur if technical
assistance, seeds and fertilizer, and credit fail to reach the majority of
farmers. This risk would be minimized by the actions proposed under the
extension component of the proposed parallel Chiapas Agricultural Development
Project. This component is statewide in concept and is not limited to the
agricultural subproject areas. COPLADE has the responsibility of ensuring
that these investments are included in the budgets of the respective agencies
and, through its monitoring and evaluation activities, determining that
needed services are delivered in a timely fashion in the road-impact areas.
78.       Additional benefits are derived from direct employment on the
project. There might be a risk that the project would fail to construct the
planned roads, or that the choice of technology might shift toward more
equipment-based methods during implementation, thus lessening employment
benefits. The first risk would be minimized by the extensive preparatory
work done by SCT and COPLADE staff and the scope of the project, which takes



- 25 -
into consideration local capacity for execution and historic construction
levels. The second risk would be minimized by the development of manuals for
determining appropriate construction technology, i.e., equipment-based versus
labor-based methods.
79.       Finally, benefits would accrue to the rural population, and
especially to the indigenous population which occupies unproductive land,
through improved access to employment opportunities generated under the
Chiapas State Development Plan. The risks here are that new employment
opportunities may not arise, or that they may be taken by other people,
particularly from neighboring Guatemala.   To minimize the first risk, this
project has been prepared in close coordination with the Bank-financed
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, which is expected to generate the
equivalent of 15,000 full-time jobs and to enhance agricultural production
throughout the State.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS OF AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
Ciii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 29, 1985



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T ALS 3A                             Page 1 of 5
MEXiCO                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA USET
NMISXCO                             REarrsm cRlours onzicwmn^iu 
HOST                    (HOST RECET En &STI
RE ICENT         HIDDLE INCOEK          MiDLE   CH
19.01k     19701k ESTInATtb        LAT. AMERICA & CAR           ruore
AnE (TUOISAND Sq. U)
TOTAL                              1972.5      1972.5   1972.5
AGRICULTURAL                        983.2      976.4    979.5
C m r  CAPITA (Us$)                    360.0      730.0   2270.0             2106.6                   2345.3
nECT COPOuTsan aX CAPrIA
(xILOGRAMS or OIL EQUIVALENT)       539.0      773.0   1340.0              995.5                   1122.8
POUATIOS AMD InTL STATISTICS
POPULATION.NID-YEAR (THOUSAMDS)    37073.0    51176.0  73122.0
URBAN POPUTION (X o0 TOTAL)          50.8       59.0      68.0              66.5                     46.6
POPULATION PROJECTIUNS
POPU4ATION IN YZEA 2000 (HILL)                         109.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                         -198. S*
POPULATION ICKENM                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                        18.8        25.9     36.1              35.7                     62.9
PER SQ. KM. ACRL. LAND             37.7        52.4     72.5              92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                          45.6        46.5     44.3               39.9                     31.6
15-64 YRS                          51.0       50.0      52.2              56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                        3.4         3.5      3.4               4.1                      7.1
POPUIATXON CGRWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               3.0         3.2      3.0               2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               4.8         4.7      4.2               3.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         45.4        43.4     33.9              31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         12.2        9.7       7.1               6.1                      8.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3        3.2       2.2               2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..        25.1   1145.0 IC
USERS (I OF MARRIED WNEH)            ..         ..      39.0 7            40.3
POD SA  WMITION
INUDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        97.0      100.0    104.0              l14.3                    14.-5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMHENTS)     117.0       112.0    121.0              110.6                    128.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           69.0       66.0      74.0              67.3                     89.7
OF dUICHI ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0        27.0     28.0 /d            34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          10.3        6.5       4.0               5.7                      5.2
-EALS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        57.0       61.3      65.4              64.7                     67.4-
IMPFANT MDRT. RATE (PER THOUS)       91.1       73.6      52.9              60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                              23.5        49.0 Is  58.0 Ie           65.4
URNAN                                ..        68.5 /e  51.4 Ie           78.1
RURAL                                *-        21.07;  51.07;             46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATIUN)
TOTAL                                ..        37.0 je  38.0 /e            52.9
URBAN                                ..       60.0W   50.1 ie             67.0
RURAL                                ..         4.o 7    13.o 7;          24.5
POPULATION PER PNYSICLAN           1830.0      1510.0       ..            1917.7                   1065.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            3650.0     1390.0        ..             815.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPIIAL BED
TUrAL                             590.0       970.0       ..              361.2                    326.3
URBAN                             570.0 if  1170.0        ..             411.5                    201.5
RURAL                                        1370.0       ..            2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED            ..         ..        ..              27.3                     20.0
8WSIC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.7
URBAN                               5.7         5.7
RURAL                               5.2         5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOY
TOTAL                               2.9         2.5
URAN                                2.6         2.2
RURAL                               3.4         3.2       .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF WVELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..        58.9
URBAN                                ..        80.7
RURAL                                ..        27.8



- 27 -
ANNEX I
T A 8 L C  34                          Page  2  of  5
MEXICO                 - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) La
HOST                     (HOST RECENT ESTIKATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960k       ,197QoL   ESTUIATEL-.   LAT. AMERICA 4 CAR            EUROPE
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY1   TOTAL                    80.0        104.0     121.0              105.4                     101.1
MALE                      82.0       106.0    122.0               106.3                     105.5
FEIALE                   77.0        102.0    12U.0               104.5                      96.7
SECONDARYt TOTAL                     11.0       22.0       51.0               43.2                      59.1
MALE                      14.0        26.0      54.0               42.3                      6d.9
FEMALE                    8.0         17.0      49.0               44.5                      50.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)            23.6       26.7       11.6               33.6                      21.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              44.0        46.0      37.0               30.1                      25.1
SECONDARY                            13.0        14.0      18.0               16.8                      20.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                65.4        74.2      82.7               79.5                      75.6
CQNTlIII
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP            12.9       24.1      61.3                46.0                      54.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          89.0        273.7    295.4               225.6                     164.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              17.5        58.5     108.1              107.2                     123.8
NEWSPAPER C" DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              713.         ..       64.5 /8            63.5                      96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATIENDANCEICAPITA         9.8         4.9       4.4 /c             2.8                       2.9
uA Fm
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           11191.0    14722.0  21198.0
FEKAI.E (PERCENT)                    15.2        17.4      20.0               23.2                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                55.1        45.2      35.6               31.5                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   19.5       22.9      25.8                23.9                      23.3
PARTlCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2        28.6      29.3               32.2                      42.9
KALE                                 51.1        47.4      46.7               49.3                      54.7
FEMALE                                9.2        10.1      11.7               15.2                      31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7       1.6                1.4                       0.9
INGOE DISTIBUIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            61.1 lb    60.7       57.7 Id
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              3.4 7W      3.3      2.9 7d-
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             9.8 7i       . 9.9   9,9 7W
POVET TARGE  GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         ..         ..              288.2
RURAL                                  ..         ..        ..               184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         ..    471.0 /c             522.8
RURAL                                  ..         ..    471.0 77             372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                 ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averagea for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meens. Coverage of countries song the
indicators depends on aveilability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Eatixmte" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1979: /d 1977; /a Served ftom Vater eupply and sewage; /f 1962; I  1976:  /h 1963.
JUNE, 1984



- 28-                                                                           ANNEX I
rum outmot smsaniuPage  3  of  5
onl...  Aalas..gs uli. ae.c- dr  ess S     .mre.s OSceetel   jedljal sSe   e1 sulrl           ihn .   rlieiS.. is tlaelid eta besetSi  tile  usho  dat seeA be see.-1see 1i1,
annie. sedat  .1 n'asiuds.  Wtalan   tred. s." siler,SeIed alt  ester dtPtereese s.e.c-. tiejarta
lb p.lsr.a..d grampena 15) gots tia Veelsi un,- de IS. AVIJAc" seer, ad Itt u emevr IMP stlk faiefet higiils -scee 1  Ih till meelc deem it tile
ee.   VVS eeTe  U.n."  trw  -IEmil t'eeta Ott reaWtitr   IMP an   blMtlk. teae  Seent,41. Me ee a  5141. tam - 1. slee  IIc...  of utraist  eet - 1aa
Affsuitsi.et   Ia u . rtetl  st.   dale is. .sree  See etles. et is stmadl-t1  iase  arw .eec  Isi..1.. ted ebee  aIr tieadmrl   eE..  aietia, me.
dreepAI  1a es  tr  he   uuei.  mm  Is. ac-ru                  "ONesgrad         milS0f1e Mladslere dunes en th&sR.   slhue  a        . tATI lecal eeIta-. eneIlse  at,e
Veeratesd in retestI ag      O *er de ste    te.iee    dautalilete  Thdee. eere .ee  -Lair  -etel 5  earmgoi.u. 1                 Wtc   medla.ts  et e tiEe  este  i. ar4-      e
AMa IsuIsslad aq.ilcs I                                                    f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rEsir   flt.lL iUkM - Parauellt d1atdsd  be sater at protaltlcet
VIA.altertt   re   estee   InSd en   5   usa  sis    1111.                                  plrasile           1.tte   inso V eedicst asileet en e.IrcfI.-lent
ills ad  ucil dsus.                                                     ics.Isks per hers Sty ier.a  - 5'apstaitee sueteedil"Id,ther .5Irradimsia
111ustt- Isicu  a  erirstserem   r.  . sed  ierrs r P.cieacsu                               eel  e         I.    -I. eues  uertm*  weeultseua eSnre  rrri-eu   arise  adi
4efttirI -I.-I)t'  - a. rer earls. -ut-rn  -  .arsestterrea                                           ere.sleilte  menhl  sat. pe -et           I ieersite  apetlstue   .Fieeepseiate
n.e. tIM. ad  I". llS                      eaal SN.  due....a                                 his e   east se  plet"si. R.lettlltu       -wl-alereetdm    erlse5 ttt  mse1la
also.   aii Italia d..                                                        .1~~~~~~~~~-   1- ta ' Pestes. tint.  qber1lesied. heeCeet.L tents p. besisil e.d
s.d isls.eeel1 *lsrlty    5silttare     .1 sIt eseidtnete   see .erma., til,                        pelS SeItaitd ta-me .F inirl-  teelitlrlet.
mIte, aed  seesact                                                                                 MSU..SIJSL                     -Iset eber .9 esetSe  .-dabre
.0 1.1, 11 1"0. I- PO.eet  rcraeear                                              ie     - etl  a9l   *r  rre
megseelrtct  ies   er,L_us- uetj1,flit,                                                    is.;M  tineilstd  teeIe.eAmet  red~w   S.e.                        .N.dl
f. ,el tfxmatltIVS                                                                            Aea14..e eis.r..5settee sy  cpse -actpte    d  ee  tsed                       e
ljjjI" .  jfj , Jew   Carnal" tapeeet  pralssise  enr  bee "              te                       pt- 1"        =   It '-- MLet "Ash4Es.  1a5"mtsrt im t araemisa
its:   PUPIil- TIia 4ad  as a d ettlr daealutt  ad ttltlSeles  r..etatsi-t.  attulltse" -sertade a-paareeSc eteSelrt  a
rIIm.  irejetla peametr  tr- c.rittsar ns    a enrte   .  thre                                   srre   re."..
leailte adeastll tIp. ..".simy en htreil ImATeVAu1s1easlu  _Ieirv, a",rIaet   tstei    ulr   fdeIlsl-tlS   ro,a    se
rIl   t  rerstee.   tes  V         of t sa  eetse  s       te. s5.ta   , .S. -
oreeaisni   tLs-csei   ulet-                    aodd ma-apesldl Patli Ir.railetetesesetees.Rem.rs   ci   d ei
rae  bec eletteeeeci        eetes   et  -risedte   Ic-i.41 tin eit ,                      p'lserr eseietrsuse-seel    eis  eke. mir. sed s-mu
npreeaie  retst I   Ia  eek    tm 9atd.t.s .t  Saa-tpnirt It.cI  e iI.,                  este  hIaS edjse   e   mtts  Issetbe ef-  p1.51ed            Fetc  tIar1
sesdaialrccc u -Iare . il eteuer  rrieta, else% a -m Aese  so- thWsea .  pet-it. em   41tI  -t sense . she auIst esseet me
nts .9 e.   retc. TM shtee lalt -  S  5.4  tsmu etia  5        . she teet                   ieedr         Iealcd     . me    stsa  eda-  isle f-l.aree   -1 eVsiama.e
eassee  s.  .ste   - l  sh  Iessse  ta  peL,taisa 4 fteei A. setu-e                       rsir    esa.a.5.e.t tetrseea   mrsis    c
.eracd Is. rIm  ut reria-es 1-Iie   re-elutty ile  ee  ahad. tIe.sI.i  sseu, tF 53 I t ti  --r   tsr  ~crees t                                                  ereae
me. see sice che- r.pred,stem  rLt  hsc meshes tes . IeisslI .etade. 
.ssed    iei  s                                                                       rSelMu-testes   "'su    0- rela     eL.s   .dt- .5  ct.Sea    stteSt
Setas.he  . 54.r.scre-A~ -ara  .ise   tttist  it   e..,e   .. s-stte  saca
-I.,t eral              WM1.17.sdle   .t                                                      ditue.,rt   rrs.ttsss   si.Iet       esstsse
ta    . 15.  -IMrltss  les --  -sess   e    Wke.- esPreltrlts              rL*-Cese.  .tuesaeeetlse    ss                                       er         re
tetet use., till eed siel ale. ~ ~      ~          ~          ~        ~         z                                 I        abg-                  ia
Pepet.eilm   fart 19ceO Ipesst.cte-            esaAr-lse.-de1 seilet .                                 ire dsets    -     Ie.ra  p"'I'lere  "aed At F    cae-ta  sseC-lcdSCe   "
E[ed. emil be sa   es(e sh  Ltas   J. seIilt-  hires. seI rhest  i  e-                              esi  te  Le etreet; ass tar rens  pecs -   en  he  -ePes.eL. ale   eeta
pe, .."     istis,Ca,M          ad-Am w   se:r  dSe.                                              eceteim  si4liebed tiesctal.
erSibest  mat   !EIlsese             - esethel  ns ctho"alat .5 sd-serl  bt.fTVe  ileee  alsset-     crc  ce   iil.s ts.te
Pre.Ara .e    , Ss   A trteg   at,9 daililstata e      c 11t hea  te                     so means  Swed it rett   h- relSateasl    .5 II lea. Sr i. eSlet.
ftlies,                                                                                          reS,re m   MV  I    1    lq.Lg. ait sateel  .1se   prsel pt  re-rdlt lesl Fs-1 i te reteterds
lal iee  -smsr.55.s   tleade                           s      s..5etr..c  h    sl    tI  set. eq  seeso-VII                                feetLste -.1 -set.                 J-
rt lulilas         dscte tat         .eslm.at 7ilee              -ei   iCatte                   CIIIa -d.Je- ett ste. ep r Catl  artS tar -a uee. -S,s    s
V.e           IIIdh.rt    e a   sue .rec "cft  -  .. bebs.e-
rrelee   aprt atemrep Ia. elII settld ems   heeetSaa.  ee
eh -dhate   ese sn -arers tr      med  lest, si1ecei See mef~li                                   t -erte t%II-Se tW             trlaeei    eere   elS.   r
ceseteersteel    a-ic  us Icasred~ See eeberi ese ALse..-                                      ersta  a   estce  .   aldeeheem.ecdtc.at.   t
easrm    lnatea  aS emt         a.t.te   e  alibIs ad rems. -e-We-. te..j.                      tascr  ertst           - he  farc  uc ateis.  -teetrece. e..teeetF-           s
teimI ad  Me  See  dasdeld).  Oagvlteect, prudeetllst  esti ttsc-.vn                             eleseiy.acr Sai at-   ser,aaeaspep ci ce.s  I.b., terstli, I                hi.p9,
hee .-et.  -ltt Icref          esrf  rs  eat''   I"I Mite!il-ln    is    a   tic,                  ad  seet teas.-                                             L`A"r.'
-jP 5 .                            ---A.                                                            lct eeW es.l VAt testes oa- Vad f-. iapa.1 a dSet  -4 l.erslriataie.at;
sa.pe,taIretoe sttee"a  d-cci   Padeeata. ceere  ..                                      till,4 [irn, ad IW Si ens,  lie-.. en  ld a. CXerntteie   et
4apte.       Nrlssgcc  A. stsk.  ace sepimad eiatSl. ucLee  itaid. sasad.                    cSrlestls1s .me-seleetsc rcte Saat c. painltleet. ad L-,g tel- ses.  a
q-es"tee  aaS  It 555d prca.Ilcr.    IA-.te i S1eerItl.-.  bee teef-te  eacles  sue tre   -eet-I ssets.
-ata-n  aatletadia hr 'M heeed a  phmLt "tititt  seeds Set stee-                                             ftr L-       l    -. bst  ar pmatt.  eas,IS ad S1 ca   ett
-eselete  ada belst  stdrls  ste1se  tenteSete. hLd  alis...crtlgmePtsetat   leiseegd Is-SIl
ege Sai  Ws   tetec   1ralsa.ad cm las 55eiat tr east
sssseSt.11 eS-Sttee aesillested by  M em.-Ied. Set  &.Im-                                hta-    L.s.i
ste S.   e ace  Vi sas  rP',.l ret sq d Ii) set  at a-Iae
pets. reale.. e-etC IJ.   i  rem  e-ll  he Valaaci  t.as.  Them
-assdea.da e=    set ties_ etasesa . S P-V pre    es  , eas  pcse.  a. IS   rn                   ktT1iji             s    Wr  cart  rpreimec.  seare   S  pcsers  cae.
lee' Csrr  eesc  erc  reles   oSes . -- cee t.pst,  S5tdAtets taect                                                        a em   i   il  se     teshIs .            e  sas
darea  fue  ceet stet-  sta rrtr   lieu-ti. 1419 aad  lsaerts5Iedcaesc  dL.c  Ies  -emis  t-astsritemt   tS
Seat.                   taa,gal) 0           1dite prR -d1                                eittedch
tecaras  asdsried ir   itt  seilmu  ses, ses a   ieu    ..             seatec   Its  .5 the tateo,SVa  Icc t -nim se ase   P              it  te
IsSee IIeI,clila  raels -     lse        - n ti d`c-     e Ite..te ..O.,e
,aaee,   `41 it   cetIect  at  meait.lee)     - tt.irlte  eat.r. s
see Oaepi   9I s dleS    cnt   - irsr   -er  -   ssr-ied leerea l   cetteI. ad rines cA   cttcs
eaana,adfie   te, ct        a  eta-  Ste p-as d lae,       et._. c5.4..  a                                                                                I-  l41AL
ee-se.  paSs  seasu_  - aa           e  -eetd 1ta  east se   WI suen
Se. ... e..e V q he l scaitdleda     a- hel  erteilede.ea.ptIs    .   PI5 the
et"Yashe         ll"osle.im !            al5dct.stsee    elc
p-m.. I   t dee at la,-peccI fepteme  S  eaiaie Z-  -et  estp-I   cal eess
ea -t-.         , c  eeri  at. ccl,Im    retet'i"  aceS   hr smcc  -ipce
petmeSLdVaSe a  ile by   cnecs `enssse    leenF dlpee.   eet14          I e



363C10- Sf15  K5100   lifa 30?T                                                                                  A.:4
a:11a                       mactam                        Siam,~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .. . ................... ......
hism    1135          i     t l     ;IIC 2    9 a ltn     im            uq11 o1"      toUt-O  19926-   5913.    'il-                  2.'!       11     aff2     I 
30393 p  TUft WEE'  .1.37    -6193  0.01  3.11    -LU    4.66    -1.01    -3.11    -LIZ                  .        .        .        .              -.l..... - ---------   -------  - .:.-.
92'                                           9L1.   1316.6   31133       1.1Sl     43 I- 11.2 032  6921?   396.1   213.2                6.30     F.MP     3.21    Li               002.01it-.        ;.
Wm"  111 It.. VI,9.2                                   13.4    31.3    33.31      196M   53.33    13.n  1 39.66       2.4 ?i .U0    36.24    -1.26    1.-2                           1.   :A.,'  .   9.    ,:.-
grall  LI. WS,-                              Las      WN    M"I    Las    20.2?    23.92    33.13   IL%    an                           Leo    it, es.      0      411A LIe iii...'    I'.15                   1
SWIRE    IIII611                               4.46     L -     -4 7.31    -6136  V.33    19.201  LU         33L41    IL1S                 .                                          :.o.    -i.A      ! ..    IJ.:
D3ISUEO                                       ILlS  360.17   113.19    m".1    147.3   229.2?   366.93   236.6    21L.21                 6.31     all      G."      a.as            s.:.   ?I.::    ?L.         &. %
IwflOSi                                       21.2     36.2,4   41.29    3LlS    63.23    31.1?    3:I6    21.31   13.1                  LU      6.54    -LII       '.6 VA7:.5.    t.l.   9I.2    :i. *6
NlMRm. isoma                                  IL"      W6.4     @6 .46 W         11.221    15.3     61.73   416.4    ILlS                LEO0   2LIP    :.a         41.41            11.7'    L3.11   26.:    .;.:'
7122  3ffo                                   -3.1    -LW       -4.11    -2.91   -33.32  -36.1    -11.26   -11.23    -aul               51.64    11.1  139.61L    I.E                -2.3:     :    : -.3:    -:4::
mmUst. m mt                                   1L3      2.41    17.21    36.26    37.21    amI       23.53     uLV    SLaT               1.1      9.31   -kin    u3.I.                ii.:2    :ia      1L.S4    16*.
ADIDKTUW                          11~~~~2.0'    2z.Ii   253.2    U3.S3    91.23    i1'    2'.2.9    17.6? 261                2.25     l.a6     2.2* ; . iL                :2        2       1.2       .I
It'?'I9239                               Mr,   11.11    19.1    21.1.1111.   16.3    1?70    17.05  ama:                   .61       .0     Lit    :.3O    ..Sox                          ,      !'i
156.215                                       II       0.67   160.31  5111.923    .1.3   IC. 3    263.32   i'.311  116.191              1.00     3111415                            -         -i6     276      22
Wm u     It 1:.f   .We-'IDW Un                            glL  Psi231w~   Ma. hal -.!ID
*1161lOS                                       iC        EV      in               4313      350     TloS       fl
.41r25   im                                     lot6:6MI2 12  :17  3      1353      79311    3911     s       gm .911a11
CUr.. LM 91.1..-                                30       IF.,    UN92    I96i6    213r    2'31    29112  202           gm
ansi mis                      13.13    16.2.  326.1~~~~~~~~oau1 IaN  16..2  low     9g3   tILE    tILE.
mw CUg .Kt.                                            1.9iS   113M.23=          10.3     9.2?      1:0S    aI1   33.0.
U. EthiC                                       til    23.3   096.1    Elk!'   39.9    6SRI?          a"       4123
531130IC  DM121                               Mna  G31K    Poo."    l6.13    22.62    23.3          23.?*    10      IM
mm13 v   mm001                                16.1     0LIII  to.17   11.51    24'9   2..1    IL3.40                  g.l
530161 03071la110 .                            121    33.69    92J4    22.92    32151   b%iT    16.06
53012  clai2                                 -2.1      -LI111   -.7.    1.56.0    r?.6     4.1      -L?'
613552h 1  SiMTM                               Ric3IN92.9                  ..0%2 129 X               ILI
now1                                             2115411 Li      *.1       2!r   35*        hl 
CAPTA     61n  ITocwLA     4L19   27.42    a3.2    93.63                                                                                                           3.11T
W3116f10131335                                -.2 .39    31.11  .146.29    :.64,                                                                                   6..4.4
Xa.  isLF OM   PTEM                               .      ia      3.1    9.1    1.3                                                                                  39
Om20                                             -1    M%2    6.3         3.9      31.                                                                             6..
S9013  11ri                                           2163 39.6    216.1361298.6                                                                                 17.96
OIWII 4mm3           o                               u.ZK   149.24   I97N  32W.22                                                                                 79
iSK   il                                          21 10 135 1                       112 1 006    W&  Mlt   0041m          mi60302                1 S I          O                                 6 
L.Itc,ina                                 13LU    Q4.3900  2r1          29631   390:4630%6                                                     3         la339                              51
me09                                                   IL J2. 1.9?              22%.27    261                          .70:U                             3.723.2 t11
21  293 17300 IS UT 01131Sf 264  232W  ml   Po19 621632530M1 9035.0                                                                                                                         1110
2' PuT 5971 1245w le4.e ii   Lus                                                                                        Lw@051356mm maxim 
-t       - m auls   mule.4&7                                                                                                                                :.t     111                                0.1    bo1
01?m in it         a       o   ss   65           3  1.1                             "      74                          .                          .6     II                                      1 16.
mOo  10'. ui11tmv V  rEn~~ 10306 3591m.11 n 19 sour musts64                                                                                     91111.1    lb.
52.0m901 4ow



- 30 -
WVE u "tflatl,D                      ts m?l ti nittt i                                                          Sfit I
f      Iib I Il Al *t A  nr   ictles                                                                NM  I w  5
1913  l  11111    im        US  m      1um4    [inwa    timo" 
Sell-,~itllZ                                                                                       erl IF   IMI
~~~~~~~~~__...  _...._. .................._.
ct  t     Nit      lmt li2                                   matt  1   
SiSlil~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o lYtE IFE   IN    i                                                  13    94   Wf  1
EIlltiE 1'i mi   mIii                            3117      193    22        2        2734    2224    2130    15             MU
gusts   gmjsvII       z                          3M?F VS)  S 9S 0 At         344mo    2342    228191b   352M       29794 4t*12
MIE E SOUS                                       -24      -111?    -225    -44111      32         135    I24       212?        49
EI Fact. irn                                     -Hn    -am5    -mu    -7 tu    -               4MI    -a   -Ml    -In?7   -lisis
.I21IESS' 0i4 tiW1                              -'"      -2532    -3413    -m2   -11214    -ml   -liE!    -[ll   -12244
ClOEXt   il   SaE                                -1244    -454    -223   -12564    -431?          45       3145     -470    -?274
umvaf. mmiii isisMiwi                              11       IN1      21:4     21ip       79       314       30       504       III
1551  55. an l     tiop 1l1G, NT                    l         1      4514     9125     744 I3tn  2?4                351       1175
1!U04R5E565                                      re3     #2       gm       2329     25520      WIN2    7221        2421 141
liaeSyS  U,                                              alI;0    4524      "It      3012 al12           411      n18        7,t
IN' InEr                                           --        --    -1J        -l15      222      lON       54       1204      -44
tC  E CmIhi                                        43      4214     256       I7u 2    -1444    -4n       -5314    -1404    -gqt
CHIC  til OEEViES *-NCREA                        -142      -115    -2523      -i1i     on       -45       -222       504    -11i
SWtttLLAlllt                                        e        ---   14   II   --    -                                -           -
.. ... . _. .. ... . ....._. ....
IMLIC Ul. AN   L.. 1L05A
h811i)                                         le.   :1o.e4    Utli  2t21.N   W2S.*2   13.3
DINER tI.LlTIIl l2 12.40   .;:.f                                     t.41   211 .50  244.2       1.2
nonE.t                                           I'."    2i5.II   149.91 0 4     1 1.44   gs.u    MM.M
StIitERt                                         I.H0   1H7.0t     05.0   209.3    247.24   L1.7t
RANKS AuD FteIEL  l ;Tralm2.S :?c4.  2:H.4   419 .50   234.32  DAM.N   5$5119.4
zsr. An DENS H9e11
---. ---. --- ---
POLX DtPI. WltltIIICM IIIID DlStlS            =.;7   1           3DI.X0 C13L 4  50N       *d A t1 7                                                                           Ellt SL Kg?
IIE 1SO PD LIC 27                              224.44   8291.70  3 .o  474.46  4M.50  oW0.3JO                                                                            OS2Tl I#iS  in P112S
"I1101S 1  rULEC  EIT                           475.4    -Ut7  4601.70  3a%.2 2 32s,91 SID0C_
PrteL   DENP S ItCE  10             !      *      20J4  IJ82.46  flU    Bw.710:4 tin.4   na.0                                                                                  a  Ut. it, I
imJ      (a Clis  DieiwS D                                                                                                                             tlt       L.T.
rutsC 39? SitC IIt,                       23.2      23.2S:9   1.1  23c     4    33.97    34.57                                                         S                              TIIL:IS   flI
lOU                                       2510     4.34
aEW   TEIIIti n F P  Lp e  EtME tOtES                                                                                                                   utW  DF. SO s                            UN3    21.P
* ITI      I tS 1OF p rtW  Su;                 1.40    10.20      11.40    14.00    14.2      23.41                                                 ru  t ;tuon                              3*        11.32
- .1. AN IL                                                                                                                                     ShiMa
a.  94VEW0101311IM   OF  5N4LO                   ---     a.46     K."       Li0      4.96      L.0
lIYO)                                                                                                                                        TDIUI                                     44732   1t40.04
..  IPII   L  AN  P  1. IS                    I 2 .2     0 t2     4.15      5.74     5.35      6.34
I.  11  Mt SENIMS  S I F                      7.40      7.34 J     .2 .        3 8    .49     4.41
POILX DEPTt S  XES
A/  M1L rimstE  FEFEI To  EDlEl so tX  TfJI PgL2BT DELV   [PLISI.
.. NOT AVlIILILE SEMMCTELY liIt INCKIID 10 TRE TOT4
uS  gm OF UtSm. on. 'm uTX' ESinTS.
mc1E1 zu.zu



- 31 _
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (aS of February 28, 1985)
Loan                                                              Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                Purpose              Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                    3,495.2
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                 Agriculture               56.0          1.3
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Small-scale Agri.         60.0          4.7
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                92.0         48.3
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Industry                 175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Small and Hedium
Scale Mining           40.0         19.9
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Irrigation               160.0        147.9
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                23.0          5.6
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                Water Supply             125.0         77.7
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                Railways                 150.0         48.7
1945      1981      NAFINSA                 Rainfed Agriculture    264.6          110.4
1964      1981      BANPESCA                Port Development          10.0          6.6
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                Urban Development II   164.0          119.8
2042      1982      NAFINSA                 Technical Training        90.0          7.7
2043      1982      NAFINSA                 Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        121.6
2100      1982      NAFINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0           61.7
2142      1982      NAFINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry              152.3        117.4
2154      1982      NAFINSA                 Pollution Control         60.0         49.4
2191      1983      NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.        48.4         41.8
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                Urban Enginering           9.2          6.4
2262      1983      NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing          115.0         94.5
2281      1983      BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply       100.3         90.3
2325      1983      NAFINSA                 Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0        135.8
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT               Export Development       350.0        296.5
2428      1984      BANOBRAS                Highways                 200.0        168.2
2450 2/   1984      BANPESCA                Ports                     76.3         76.3
2454      1984      NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0          139.9
TOTAL                                           6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1 342 5
Total now outstanding                            5,4
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                     0.0
Total now held by Bank 31                        5,488.8
Total undisbursed                                            2,031.7
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/  This loan became effective on March 8, 1985.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                    USS Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958159  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1              Industrial Equipment          0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Hexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul            0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1            Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                           2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                      Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1        Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Constkuction Equipment          -      2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1       Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./T       Textiles                     12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                  /2      /2     /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                       15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper               10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                 19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3       Cement                      168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                         -      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -          18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                  25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                      Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3              Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                 59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                     Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories            3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility          Industrial Equipment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                       Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                    16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                    705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment, and Sales
540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                          165.3   26.1  191.4
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                 150.9    6.5  157.4
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/I    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timerable for Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:  About 22 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:  SCT
(c)  First Bank mission to review project:  July 1982
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  February 1984
(e)  Negotiations Completed:  March 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1985
TI. Sp ecial Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) the Government would carry out a review of the transport
investment priorities in the State, and a road master plan for
Chiapas to be completed by December 31, 1986 (para. 44);
(b) the Government would undertake a review of the construction
and maintenance practices regarding rural roads in the State
under the jurisdiction of SCT and SARH to be carried out by
December 31, 1987 with a view to further rationalizing rural
roads designs, specifications, construction methods and
maintenance practices, and assigning of maintenance
responsibilities between agencies (paras. 48-49);
(c) the Government would provide adequate resources to meet rural
road maintenance requirements (para. 49);
(d) the Government would update annually the rural roads inventory
(para. 49);
(e) the Government would carry out a study of rural transport
services to be completed by December 31, 1986 (para. 50);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) the need for SEDUE clearance of subprojects prior to declaring
eligibility for Bank financing (para. 75);
(g) procedures to be followed for the annual technical and
economic preparation and evaluation of the rural roads
construction and rehabilitation program (para. 69);
(h) local procurement procedures for civil works and consultant
services (para. 63); and
(i) implementation schedule for the project (para. 68).



__                TABASCO                                                                                                                                                          TABA'-
VERACRUZ
-17.
16 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                     --_s NOd DiD / a oras FosnaSa a* ..en, 0
940~~XE~                                                                                                                                 \'  ,930  E92
CoK- X o m) G C vc
~~~~~~~~~~~I    J D                                                                                                         r
VJI. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Mo> Fl-                                   .C      1 os
94b=                                                                 93Uo9
._ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             h        dI I-



,0 ,IBRD 18421
1 CAMPECHE
TABASCO
MEXICO
CHIAPAS RURAL ROADS PROJECT
1-p.d. P- 5                                           PROJECT:
j                             -      Rural Roads -tnitial Year's Program
_ . SCT Identification No for Rural Roads
EXISTING:
Paved Roads
\___-   Gravel Roads
Earth Roads
Sea Port
*  Railroads
Rivers
/  \  +  Ai rports
Mountainous Arecis
-- cte Bouncluties
Ifiternotioncil Boundciri,
~~~~~~~~LI
16
GUATEMALA
90
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MtETERS                                                               N
- u    80    too
40         60                                      AAEXICO
MAILES                                                    MXC
15-
ai.as SUN ad ttVr AIV hte dwwce of
ao ae U =t VW frw ea -.                                      Me'Ael. Cav
d,,t w .cor,ICnc. ot tm Xd.w                                                                      r
--JBELIZE
-, C-.=A1'AS
GUATEMALA
SEPTEMBER 1984






