Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2029a-CR
FILE COPY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 25, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Costa Rican colon ¢
08.6           =  US$1.00
1.o           =  us$o.116
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAAFIID         Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for
Industrial Development
CABEI           Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM            Central American Common Market
CAT              Tax Credit CertificAte
CBCR            Central Bank of Costa Rica
CET             Common External Tariff
CIEX            Certificate for Export Increases
CODESA          Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo (Costa Rican
Development Corporation)
COFISA          Corporacion Costarricense de Financiamiento Industrial S.A.
(Costa Rican Industrial Finance Corporation)
FODEIN          Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial (Industrial Development Fund)
IDL             Industrial Development Law
MEIC            Ministry of Economy, Industry and Commerce
OFIPLAN         Oficina de Planificaci6n Nacional y Politica Econo'mica
(Office of National Planning and Economic Policy)
SIECA           Secretariat for Economiq Integration in Central America
GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. * Main Features  .....  .... ... . .......................                 I
Economic Setting .................................                     1
Sectoral Structure . ......... .             ...................... .  1
Industrial Employment  ........ . .  ..................... .... .      3
Industrial Exports  ...............................                    5
B.    Industrial Policies  ..............................                    5
General Characteristics  .............. .           ...........        5
Tariff Policies ............................................           6
Export Incentives  ......... ................. .....                   6
Industrial Strategy  ...........................                       7
C.    Industrial Financing  ......... . ..  ..............   . . .............  8
Financial Institutions  .. .          ....................             8
Interest Rates  .................             ..................      10
D.    Outlook for Industrial Growth .............             .......       10
General Prospects  . .............................. .                 10
Investment Requirements  ..........................                   10
Constraints and Project Implications  ........*....                   11
II.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   General .         ...........................................          12
Antecedents  ........ ..............................                  12
Project Objectives  ........  ............................. .         12
Institutional Structure ............... .. .                          13
B.   The FODEIN System  ....... .........................                   14
Nature and Objectives  ............................                   14
Organization and Staff  .....             ......................      14
Resources and Financial Prospects  ............             ...       15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Costa Rica during February 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Mirski,
and J. Nogales.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
C.   Financing of Subprojects .........................    17
Type of Subprojects ............. .. ................    17
Lending Terms .................. ..................    18
Guarantees     ................... ....................    19
Subprojects Review and Supervision ..       .............   20
D.   Intermediary Institutions ........................    21
Eligibility Criteria ..............................    21
Present Capabilities ..............................    22
E.   Technical Assistance Needs ................ .......    22
Staff Training ............................ .......    22
Consultants for FODEIN ............................    23
Assistance to Beneficiaries ............... ......    23
III.   THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   General Description ........................ I......    24
Amount and Terms          ..................................    24
Approval Limits for Subprojects ............   ......    24
Procurement .......      ...............................    25
Disbursements ....       ................................    25
B.   Benefits and Risks ...............................   25
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....       ............   26
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   FODEIN:  Operating Policies and Procedures (draft)
2.   FODEIN:  Regulations Implementing the Operating Policies
and Procedures (draft)
3.   Operating Policies and Procedures for the Financial
Intermediaries (draft)
4.   Supporting Tables
Table 1: Industrial Investment Requirements, (1977-82).
Table 2: Industrial Investment and Financing in 1976.
Table 3: FODEIN: Projected Approvals and Disbursements
(1979-83)
Table 4: FODEIN: Projected Balance Sheet and Income Statement
(1979-83)



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES (Continued)
Table 5: FODEIN: Projected Uses and Sources of Funds (1979-83).
Table 6: FODEIN: Expected Subprojects: (A) Sectoral Distri-
bution and (B) Expected Employment Impact.
Table 7: FODEIN: Expected Size Distribution of Subloans
Table 8: Estimated Economic Rate of Return of Industrial
Subprojects.
Table 9: Estimated Disbursement Schedule.
5.   Documents Available in the Project File.
MAP






COSTA RICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Main Features
Economic Setting
1.01      Costa Rica, with a population of about two million and growing at
a rate of about 3% a year, has been successful in achieving a sound balance
between high per capita GNP exceeding US$1,000 and social development.
The distribution of income is fairly even and steadily improving, although
there are still substantial urban-rural disparities. The country's economic
and social development performance during the last several years has been
impressive. Agriculture has traditionally been the most important sector
of the Costa Rican economy and the main source of employment and export
earnings. The rapid growth of the agricultural production of 5.4% per year
in real terms during the last 15 years exceeds that of most other countries.
1.02      Manufacturing industry has been the fastest growing sector in the
Costa Rican economy, with an average annual growth rate of 8.1% in real terms
in 1972-76 and 11% in 1977. 1/ This compares favorably with growth rates
for the rest of the economy of 4.9% in 1972-76 and 6.3% in 1977. 2/ Manufac-
turing now accounts for 20% of GDP, 12% of the labor force employment and 27%
of total exports. The fast growth of the sector, and in particular of its
exports (para. 1.09), has been made possible in part by the existence of
the Central American Common Market (CACM), generous fiscal incentives to
industry, tax credit certificates for non-traditional exports, and absence
of restrictions on private foreign investment in Costa Rica. To sustain
continuing rapid growth, it will be necessary to provide the sector with
long-term financing--presently almost non-existent--and to apply a more
selective policy in granting fiscal incentives, which would focus more on
the development of efficient enterprises based on the country's comparative
advantages.
Sectoral Structure
1.03      Costa Rican industry is still in an early stage of development.
Agroindustries enjoy comparative advantages, but import-substitution indus-
tries with a high component of imported raw materials have been increasing
their importance since the establishment of the CACM in 1960. This trend,
however, seems to be levelling off, due to policies of the Government in
the past few years favoring agroindustrial activities. Most industrial
1/   Preliminary estimates:  Central Bank, February 1978.
2/   Bank estimates.



enterprises are located around the capital city, San Jose. These, together
with industrial enterprises in other urban centers within a thirty kilometer
diameter of the capital, account for about 90% of the tota:L industrial
employment in the country. To avoid excessive concentration of industries
the Government plans to provide incentives to export industries located
closer to sea ports (e.g. Puntarenas and Limon) or close to agricultural
resources.
1.04      Most industrial enterprises in Costa Rica are relatively small and,
with very few exceptions, are privately held. According tc) the 1976 indus-
trial census, about 70% of the total number of 2,867 industrial enterprises
have less than 10 workers and only 10% have more than 50 workers. There is
no uniform definition of small-scale enterprises (SSE) and very little is
known about the enterprises at the lower end of the spectrum. 1/ Based on the
experience of a recent IDB loan (para. 2.02), most enterprises with annual
sales below US$350,000 equivalent have no or only very limited access to
institutional credit because of their relatively small size and lack of
collateral. To induce banking institutions to finance these enterprises,
special guarantee features and financial margins have been built into the
proposed project (paras. 2.23 and 2.29).
1.05      The production of consumer goods, mainly for the domestic market,
represents about two-thirds of industrial value added. Food, beverages,
and tobacco account for about 70% of consumer goods production. Intermediate
goods, composed mainly of wood, leather, chemicals and non-metallic mineral
industries, constitute about 27% of industrial value added. The share of
capital goods industries, mainly assembly plants, in total industrial value
added is only about 5%; most inputs for these industries are imported and
high protection has been a common denominator for them. Overall, the compo-
sition of the industrial output has not experienced major changes since 1960,
except that the relative share of food, beverages, and tobacco has been de-
clining in favor of the chemicals, petroleum and rubber subsectors (Table
1.1).
1/   In 1976 the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Commerce (MEIC) set up a
special office to provide technical assistance to craftsmen and very
small industrial establishments which have less than ¢250,000 in fixed
assets (including land), employ less than 20 workers, and whose owners
effectively participate in management. However, the office has been
handicapped by a small budget and lack of specialized staff.



- 3 -
Table 1-1: STRUCTURE OF INDUSTRIAL VALUE ADDED
(in percentages)
Average Growth
1960   1972   1974   1976   Rates 1972-76
Food, beverages and tobacco           58.2   45.9   45.5   44.8          7.4
Textiles, clothing & leather          12.6   12.0   11.6   11.6          7.1
Wood products                         11.9    6.9    8.6    9.0         15.5
Paper products                         2.9    4.7    4.6    5.2          7.5
Chemicals, petroleum, rubber           5.7   14.3   15.6   14.4          8.2
Non-metallic minerals                  2.7    5.5    3.4    5.0          5.9
Metal products                         5.2   10.0    9.5    9.5          6.7
Other                                  0.8    0.7    1.2    0.5          2.9
Total                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          8.1
Source: Central Bank and OFIPLAN.
Industrial Employment
1.06      Industrial employment has been growing at 6.5% p.a. on average since
1972 and this rate should continue with the expected growth of the sector of
7.5% p.a. The most labor-absorbing subsectors have been wood products,
textiles, leather, and non-metallic minerals, while paper products and
chemicals have a relatively small employment effect. The food and beverage
industries have also had a low direct impact on employment, but their linkage
with the agricultural sector makes them attractive for the overall employment
generation.
1.07      Compared with other CACM countries, Costa Rica has relatively
skilled labor but also higher daily wages and social charges (23% higher
than Nicaragua and 55% higher than El Salvador), as shown in Table 1.2. By
encouraging production for exports, especially to third countries where
labor costs are higher, the development of labor-intensive industries would
still be advantageous and have a favorable impact on employment. Also, a
stronger direct employment effect might be achieved by assisting in the
development of smaller enterprises which tend to be relatively more labor
intensive. Thus, by helping to provide term credit to export industries
and facilitating financing of smaller firms, the proposed project is
expected to have a positive impact on employment.



- 4 -
Table 1.2: INDUSTRIAL DAILY WAGES IN CENTRAL AMERICA, OCTOBER 1974
(In US$)
% social charges
Wages     Social charges      Total          in wages
Costa Rica             2.42            0.95           3.37             39.3
El Salvador            1.63            0.54           2.17             33.1
Guatemala              1.99            0.64           2.63             32.2
Honduras               1.99            0.46           2.45             23.1
Nicaragua              2.16            0.58           2.74             26.9
Source:  IBRD, Agricultural Sector Survey of Costa Rica, July 1975.
1.08      The expected employment growth of 6.5% p.a. would mean an increase
in Costa Rica's industrial labor force from the estimated 85,700 workers in
1977 to 117,400 in 1982, i.e., by about 32,000 jobs, equivalent to more than
one-third of the existing industrial employment. The subsectors of textiles
and leather, and metal products are expected to generate abouat 14,600 jobs or
46% of total new employment. Table 1.3 shows the breakdown of expected
employment growth in the sector.
Table 1.3:  INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT PROJECTIONS (1977-82)
(in number of jobs)
Average
Annual
Total Increase         Growth
Subsector                     1977      1982     No. Jobs        %       Rate (%)
Food and beverages           19,800   23,917       4,116        13.0        3.8
Textiles and leather         23,900   30,678        6,778       21.4        5.1
Wood                          9,600   11,512        1,912        6.0        3.7
Paper                         1,700    2,688          988        3.1        9.6
Printing industries           4,300    7,426       2,946         9.3       10.9
Chemicals                     9,100   13,371        4,271       13.5        8.0
Non-metallic products         4,000    6,234        2,234        7.1        9.3
Metal products               11,700   19,538        7,838       24.7       10.8
Others                        1,600    2,190          590        1.9        6.5
Total                   85,700  117,374      31,673       100.0       6.5
Source: OFIPLAN, MEIC. Bank estimates.



-5-
Industrial Exports
1.09      Over the last decade, the industrial sector has become an important
source of foreign exchange earnings. Non-traditional manufactured exports
(excluding processed coffee, sugar, and beef) increased from US$19 million
in 1965 to US$192 million in 1976, at an average growth rate of 23% p.a.
Exports of textiles, leather, chemicals, and metal products have been growing
even more rapidly. While two-thirds of industrial exports still go to the
CACM countries, non-traditional exports to countries outside the CACM have
been growing much faster than the rest, 1/ largely in response to incentives
provided by the Government (para. 1.16). Although the volume of exports
outside the CACM is still relatively modest (US$66 million in 1976), the
outlook for their further growth is good.
1.10      Presently, manufacturing production is heavily dependent on inputs
obtained from outside the region. However, this situation is gradually
improving through the Government's efforts to increase non-traditional ex-
ports, especially those based on domestic raw materials. Improved project
appraisal techniques, which are expected to result from the proposed
project, should help in this respect.
B. Industrial Policies
General Characteristics
1.11      Since the early 1960s Costa Rica's industrial policy has been
largely determined by a regional import-substitution strategy in the context
of the CACM.  The main policy instruments have been the Common External Tar-
iff (CET) and the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives to Indus-
trial Development (CAAFIID).  In addition, some incentives of the 1958 Indus-
trial Development Law (IDL) have remained in effect.  The result of this
strategy was fast development of some intermediate industries, notably chemi-
cal products, and specialization in production for the domestic and regional
markets, with little regard for exports of manufactured goods outside the
CACM. At the same time, the virtual absence of import duties on capital
goods, which is a common feature among CACM countries, has contributed to
frequently low capacity utilization of industrial equipment. In recent
years the limitations of this one-sided approach became increasingly evident
as competition among the CACM countries to attract investment grew stronger
and the easiest import-substitution possibilities were exhausted.
1.12      Realizing the shortcomings of the past policies, the Government
of Costa Rica has recently started to provide incentives to export indus-
tries, thereby somewhat alleviating the problem. Also, a new attitude has
emerged among Costa Rica's industrial policy makers which emphasizes the
1/   Non-traditional manufactured exports to CACM grew at 12% p.a. during
1974-76, and exports to third countries at 30% p.a.



- 6 -
development of resource-based industries with comparative advantages in the
world markets while still recognizing the possibilities offered by the CACM.
however, this new focus on expansion and diversification of manufactured
exports with high domestic value added outside the CACM has not yet been
translated into a revised set of industrial policies. The supra-national
character of the CACM policy framework, which requires agreement by all mem-
bers for any changes in the incentive legislation, is partly responsible for
the rigidity of the system.  The adoption of a more outward-looking indus-
trial sector strategy would require substantial changes in the tariff struc-
ture, fiscal incentives and incentives to exports outside the CACM, both at
the national and CACM levels (para 1.29).
Tariff Policies
1.13      Costa Rica's present tariff structure originated wiLth the estab-
lishment of the CET for the CACM, which resulted in a substantial increase
in the tariff rates for consumer and intermediate goods and a small reduc-
tion in the rates for capital goods. In addition to the CET, a "temporary"
30% surcharge on import duties was established by the CACM in 1968 (San Jose
Protocol) and extended for another 5 years from 1973 to improve the balance
of payments of the CACM countries. However, in 1977 the surcharge was ex-
tended again for an additional 5 years despite considerable improvements in
the countries' balance of payments situation.
1.14      The resulting nominal tariff rates on many industri.al products are
high and uneven, varying between 8 and 80% for subsectoral averages. They
are made up of a combination of ad valorem rates and specific duties based
on unit weights. Effective protection rates are even higher and more uneven
(Annex 4, T-8) and provide non-uniform incentives which can ]lead to serious
inefficiencies. The Costa Rican Government is conscious of the problems and
is advocating a review within the CACM.
1.15      Duty exemptions on imported equiment and raw materi'als are the main
form of fiscal incentives to industry. I/ They are granted by the MEIC and
have become an integral part of the protection system. 2/ Their value is
estimated at about US$30 million per year, or about 1.3% of GNP in 1976.
Although the Government has been trying to become more selective in granting
these exemptions, it has not been able to do so due to competing incentives
granted by other CACM countries. This problem can be resolved only in the
framework of the CACM.
Export Incentives
1.16      Since 1972 the two most important incentives to increase non-
traditional exports outside the CACM and Panama have been the Tax Credit
1/   Reportedly, income tax holidays are being granted less frequently and
are more strictly administered.
2/   Contracts with MEIC specify the amount and duration of the exemptions.



- 7 -
Certificate (CAT) and the Certificate for Export Increases (CIEX). Both
are freely negotiable documents that can be used for payment of any govern-
ment taxes. They can be issued to companies owned by Costa Rican citizens and
by foreign individuals with five years of residence, and to companies whose
equity is at least 60% owned by the Costa Rican nationals. CATs amount to 15%
of exported FOB value and, because they are tax-free, represent an equivalent
incentive of 25% on FOB value for the average tax rate of 40%. CIEXs amount
to 10% of the increase in FOB value of exports of the preceding year. Both
these instruments help limit the anti-export bias of the existing protective
system. Until now CATs have been largely responsible for the impressive
increase in industrial exports. The impact of CIEX, which became effective
only in 1977, is expected to be felt this year.
Industrial Strategy
1.17      The Ministry of Planning (Oficina de Planificacion Nacional y Poli-
tica Economica (OFIPLAN)) has recently issued the National Five-Year Plan for
1978-82. The stated objectives for the industrial sector appear reasonable
and well oriented towards improving the sector's efficiency. The plan expects
that the development of industry will be carried out mainly by the private
sector while the Government will finance infrastructure services, provide
fiscal and credit incentives to efficient projects, and participate, directly
or in joint ventures, in large investments to exploit energy and other natural
resources and to develop certain basic industries (i.e., aluminum).
1.18      The main objectives of the Five-Year Plan, which have been reflected
in the proposed Bank project, are the following: (a) to help the sector
achieve a growth rate of 7.5% p.a. which, while slightly below the average of
8.1% during 1972-77, is quite reasonable, (b) to increase manufacturing
exports, especially outside CACM, (c) to establish more selective mechanisms
for providing benefits to import-substitution industries, (d) to help develop
small-scale industries, and (e) to promote more intensive use of natural
resources and domestic raw materials, mainly through the development of
agroindustries. Additionally, the plan encourages further diversification
and geographic decentralization of industries and intends to strengthen the
CACM.
1.19      The plan assigns high priority to agroindustries because of their
positive impact on: (a) sectoral value added, (b) direct and indirect employ-
ment, (c) the balance of payments through exports and smaller import require-
ments, and (d) decentralization, due to a natural tendency to establish
processing plants near sources of raw materials. Assembly industries of
durable consumer goods are also considered important because of their employ-
ment impact, although the plan recognizes that protection of these industries
needs to be gradually reduced to improve their efficiency.



- 8 -
C. Industrial Financing
Financial Institutions
1.20      The national banking system.  Costa Rica's financial sector is
divided into two systems: (a) the national banking system, and (b) finan-
cial institutions outside the national system. The national banking system
consists of CBCR, four nationalized commercial banks, and the Corporacion
Costarricense de Desarrollo (CODESA), a public development finance company.
The four state commercial banks, which are multifunctional and compete
for business like private institutions, provide about three-fourths of
all industrial credit in Costa Rica. They are the only banks allowed to
receive demand and time deposits and, together with CODESA, have access to
CBCR's rediscounting. All four banks are financially sound and reasonably
profitable institutions. Their total assets have been growing at a healthy
pace at 16.7% p.a. in nominal terms during 1971-76, which exceeds the average
inflation rate of about 13% 1/ during the period, and reached 98 billion
as of December 31, 1976. Their combined net profits amounted to V31 million
in 1976, equivalent to 11% on average equity, and are expected to remain at
that level in the next few years. The two largest banks, Banco Nacional de
Costa Rica and Banco de Costa Rica, jointly account for 80% of all industrial
credit extended by the four state banks as shown on Table 1.4.
Table 1.4: EVOLUTION OF STATE BANKS' INDUSTRIAL FINA1NCING
(1973-76)
(in ¢ million, in current prices)
1973            1974             1975             1976
.A     B        A       B        A        B       A       B
Banco de
bosta Rica         40.7   37.1    83.7    95.6    83.8    34.4    90.7   45.5
Banco Nacional
de C.R.            37.8   50.6    63.9   142.1    89.2   133.6   131.9  (10.8)
Banco Anglo
Costarricense      19.0    7.3    15.8    42.1    38.4    31.9    27.0    0.8
Banco de Credito
Agric. de Cartago 12.8    2.2    10.9        8.2    13.3    27.7    35.8   35.0
Total         110.3   97.2   174.3   288.0   244.7   227.6   285.4   70.5
A  =  Annual disbursements for fixed assets purchasing.
B = Annual net increases in working capital portfolio.
Source: Central Bank.
1/   Including the exceptionally high inflation rate above 30%, in 1974.



- 9 -
1.21      CODESA was established in 1972 as a predominantly government-owned
development finance corporation, 1/ for the purpose of developing or moderniz-
ing productive enterprises. Its organic law makes it a part of the national
banking system. Since its inception CODESA has been mainly involved in the
promotion of a few very large enterprises which it owns or controls. As
of August 31, 1977, CODESA's portfolio consisted 70% of equity investments
and 30% of loans, largely to CODESA's industrial subsidiaries. As a result,
CODESA has become mainly a holding company, devoting most of its management
and staff time to running or supervising its subsidiary companies. CODESA has
been planning to set up an autonomous banking subsidiary which could partici-
pate in the proposed credit scheme.
1.22      The Central Bank (CBCR), established in 1950, is responsible for
monetary and credit policies which it implements partly through a rather
complex system of interest rates but mainly through setting ceilings on
the amount of credit that each commercial bank may extend for particular
economic activities. Rediscounting is used as a method of extending CBCR's
credit within the allocated ceilings, but not as an instrument of monetary
policy. Reserve requirements were increased in 1977 from 20% to 30% for cur-
rent deposits, and from 10% to 15% for time deposits, in order to absorb
some banking liquidity, but the monetary impact of this measure has been in-
significant. Since an amendment to its organic law in 1970 CBCR has become
more active in the development field and has been administering several lines
of credit for productive sectors, including three Bank-financed agricultural
projects. Using several foreign credit lines, it has financed equipment pur-
chases for the industrial sector and administered the 0360 million Export and
Tourism Promotion Fund, whose resources are now mostly disbursed. By assuming
responsibility for financing and administering the proposed project (para.
2.07), CBCR would substantially enhance its position with respect to industrial
sector development.
1.23      Institutions outside the national banking system.  The financial
institutions outside the national banking system consist of 4 private for-
eign banks and over 30 private financieras, which together account for about
23% of total industrial lending. Foreign banks provide only 3% of industrial
loans. The private financieras may not receive deposits but have been active
in intermediating foreign bank loans and mobilizing domestic resources through
sales of their obligations to the public. The largest and most active is
Corporacion Costarricense de Financiamiento Industrial, S.A. (COFISA), with
total assets of 0323 million as of December 31, 1976. COFISA, a private DFC,
has good management, operates efficiently, and could probably meet the tech-
nical criteria of the proposed system, but could not be accepted under the
current application of the existing banking law (para. 2.06). Banco Popular,
a semi-public corporation which functions as a workers' and community develop-
ment institution, is currently not considered as a bank by CBCR and would also
not be eligible to participate at present.
1/   According to its charter CODESA may have private shareholders.



- 10 -
Interest Rates
1.24      The interest rate structure in Costa Rica is complex.  There is
no interest on current and time deposits of up to 6 months. Savings accounts
pay 6% p.a. Time deposits up to 12 months earn 9% p.a. interest, which in-
creases by 0.5% every 6 months to reach a maximum of 12% p.a. for deposits
kept over 42 months. Lending rates of state commercial banks and CODESA vary
between 8% and 14% p.a., 1/ depending on the end-use and the source of funds.
Most industrial and other productive loans are made at 12% p.a., and this rate
would be used initially in the proposed project.
1.25      The historical rate of inflation in Costa Rica has been quite low,
averaging 2.5% p.a. between 1965-72.  Inflation rose rapidly in 1973 and ex-
ceeded 30% in 1974; however, the Government was successful in reducing it
rapidly to 4.4% in 1976. With the estimated rate of inflation of 8-10% in
1977, most lending transactions are contracted at positive rates in real
terms. There are, however, some exceptions as a result of ithe Government's
policy to provide loans to very small productive units (withl annual sales of
up to US$4,000 equivalent) and for short-term pre-export financing, at 8%
p.a., i.e., very close to or below the inflation rate. Since the selective use
of concessionary interest rates could affect the financial mnarket and resource
allocation, it has been included in the ongoing Bank dialogule with the Gov-
ernment concerning economic policies.
D. Outlook for Industrial Growth
General Prospects
1.26      Prospects for continued rapid growth appear reasonably good for the
industrial sector, and it seems likely that the rather conservative government
estimates for the sector's average growth of 7.5% p.a. during the next 5 years
will be achieved. Textiles, leather, chemicals, non-metalliLc minerals and
metal products should grow fastest given their good export prospects, access
to domestic raw materials or labor cost advantage in relation to world mar-
kets, while the food and beverages subsector is expected to grow slowest.
Investment Requirements
1.27      Based on 1976 data, total industrial investment required to achieve
the expected growth rate of 7.5% p.a. for the sector during the 1978-82 period
would average about US$230 million (in 1976 dollars) per year 2/ (Annex 4,
1/   Financieras may charge up to a maximum 20% p.a.
2/   Bank estimates based on projected investment in fixed aLssets (including
replacement equipment) plus increases in working capital requirements.
These estimates are based on present capacity utilization factors and
capital-output ratios.



- 11 -
T-1). Of that total, annual purchases of fixed assets would amount to about
US$195 million (85%), and increases in working capital US$34 million (15%).
The foreign exchange component of total investment requirements would be
about 68% of total investment costs.
1.28      Industrial profits, new equity and depreciation funds are expected
to finance about US$160 million per year in 1978-82, equivalent to 70% of
total industrial requirements, in line with historic patterns (Annex 4, T-2).
In addition, about US$340 million in new industrial credit would be required,
at a rate of US$68 million per year on the average, for financing of about
30% of total industrial investments.
Constraints and Project Implications
1.29      There are two major constraints to the industrial sector's growth
resulting from: (a) lack of an adequate mechanism to evaluate industrial
projects, and (b) scarcity of long-term credit. The first problem affects
the proper allocation of fiscal incentives and financing in line with the
Government's development program. It has special significance within the
context of the CACM because of the high import duties on finished goods, the
generous duty exemptions for capital goods and raw materials imports, and tax
holidays on personal income and corporate profits, which are competitively
applied by individual countries of the area. 1/ Generally, loose administra-
tive procedures for granting these exemptions have led in some industries to
the coexistence of high financial profits with low capacity utilization. 2/
While the CACM tariff structure has to be analyzed at the regional level for
Central America, the establishment of a rational and efficient mechanism for
the selective granting of incentives, including long-term credit, is an urgent
need in Costa Rica. The Bank's Industrial Integration Survey mission to the
CACM countries in May 1978 will provide an opportunity to review the problem
at a regional level and to exchange views with the Government of Costa Rica
regarding specific sector policy issues, including fiscal incentives. Further
exchanges of views on credit policies are expected in connection with the
implementation of the proposed loan.
1.30      The second constraint, the scarcity of long-term credit, has been
responsible for the low financial leverage of industrial enterprises whose
average debt-to-equity ratio is 0.4:1. It has been deterring a higher in-
vestment level in the sector, in particular affecting the development of new
projects and the expansion of smaller enterprises. The establishment of a
permanent fund for term credit to industry, with special facilities for
smaller enterprises, is a major objective of the proposed project (para. 2.08).
1/   In August 1977, the CACM countries agreed to leave it to individual
governments whether to give tax exemptions on personal income and
corporate profits that previously had been part of the common incentives
included in the CAAFIID.
2/   Estimates vary but the general indication is that, on the average,
less than 60% of installed capacity is used in an average year ("Eco-
nomic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica," Report No. 1666-CR,
November 17, 1977).



- 12 -
II. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. General
Antecedents
2.01      The proposed project would represent a renewal of Bank support
for Costa Rican industry, which had not been assisted since the early 1960s
when the Bank made two loans to finance industrial machinery and equipment:
No. 254-CR for US$2 million in May 1960 and No. 269-CR for US$3 million in
August 1961. Both loans fulfilled their objective of assistiLng efficient
enterprises, but they were not designed to build up a permanent institution
and whatever centralized technical capability for project appraisal had been
built up in that connection has since disappeared.
2.02      The project envisaged for Bank financing would complement ongoing
or planned lending programs of IDB and USAID. In 1976 the IDB made an
industrial credit loan of US$8 million to Banco de Costa Rica--one of the
proposed credit intermediaries--of which US$3 million were reserved for
smaller enterprises with annual sales below US$350,000 equivaLlent. The major
portion of the loan has been fully committed, but the part for smaller enter-
prises has lagged, mainly due to the inadequate collateral which these enter-
prises can offer. The experience gained with the IDB loan has been used in
designing an incentive and guarantee scheme for lending to smialler enterprises
included in the proposed project. USAID is preparing an urbaLn development
project which is to include financial and technical assistance to small
craftsmen in the San Jose area, who are outside the scope of the project
proposed for Bank financing.
2.03      For several years the Bank's efforts to provide additional credit
to industry in Central America has been focussed on the Central American Bank
for Economic Integration (CABEI). However, mainly because of legal problems,
these efforts have not been successful and the Bank has recently begun to
consider providing assistance to industries through financial intermediaries
in individual CEntral American countries, while continuing its efforts to
utilize the institutional facilities of CABEI. In this context, sectoral and
project preparation missions visited Costa Rica between September 1975 and
March 1977 and, following the Government's request for Bank assistance to the
industrial sector, the present project was identified in June 1977 and
appraised in February 1978.
Project Objectives
2.04      The main objective of the proposed Bank assistance to the industrial
sector of Costa Rica is to give technical and financial support to the Govern-
ment's realistic program of industrial development for 1978-82 (para. 1.17).
The Government foresees achieving its objectives of increased production,
exports and employment by continuous development and increased efficiency of



- 13 -
the manufacturing sector through the provision of term credit and more
selectively applied fiscal incentives. Considering that the economic returns
on investment can be increased through a more careful screening of investment
proposals, the proposed industrial credit project is intended to assist Costa
Rica in building up an institutional set-up for financing efficient subprojects
in the private sector, both for export and efficient import substitution,
and ensuring their satisfactory execution. Labor-intensive activities and
industries with comparative advantage, normally those using intensively natural
resources, are expected to be favored as a result of the economic evaluation
and the systematic appraisal process which would be used by the financial
institutions. Special arrangements included in the proposed set-up should
also facilitate participation of smaller enterprises that are generally
believed to be especially efficient in employment creation at low cost.
Institutional Structure
2.05      The project would consist of a two-tier credit system.  An indus-
trial development fund, Fondo de Desarollo Industrial (FODEIN), would be
established in CBCR to make loans for industrial subprojects through qualified
intermediary banking institutions. It is expected that the system would
comprise up to five intermediaries, namely four state commercial banks and a
subsidiary of CODESA, but two intermediaries would be sufficient to make the
system operative. The intermediaries would be responsible for the appraisal
and supervision of industrial subprojects and for making industrial subloans
using their own and FODEIN's resources. They would service their debt from
FODEIN, irrespective of their collections from industrial beneficiaries. The
nature and operational criteria of the scheme are discussed below.
2.06      Direct lending to individual institutions was considered as an
alternative to the fund approach, but is not recommended for the following
reasons. Firstly, since all state commercial banks are actively engaged
in industrial financing, the monetary authorities support the proposed
two-tier system which would maintain competition among the participating banks
and strengthen their technical capability. Mainly for this reason, the
alternative of working with only one state commercial bank--following the
precedent of IDB loans to Banco de Costa Rica--was not adopted. Secondly,
the only public development finance institution in Costa Rica, CODESA,
is heavily involved in the promotion and management of large state-owned and
mixed enterprises, and would not qualify for a direct loan while its future
is still undecided. However, if CODESA should set up a subsidiary or a
separate banking unit, which would meet FODEIN's criteria (Annex I), such
unit could participate as an intermediary in the proposed project. Thirdly,
COFISA, the only important private development finance company (para. 1.23),
does not belong to the national banking system and may not, under the applica-
tion of the present law, rediscount its loans with, or borrow from CBCR.
Should the law be changed or its application widened so that COFISA or any
other private finance institutions gain access to CBCR's financing, they
could also be qualified as intermediary under the FODEIN system.



- 14 -
B. The FODEIN System
Nature and Objectives
2.07      FODEIN would be established in CBCR as a special fund of indefinite
duration with separate accounting, staff and permanent resources allocated
to it by CBCR. Its accounts would be audited by the Auditor General Office
which audits other accounts of CBCR and state commercial banks and which is
acceptable to the Bank. FODEIN's operations would be conducted pursuant to
the operating norms and criteria (Annex I) and regulations (Annex II) which
were tentatively approved by the Board of Directors of CBCR in February 1978
and which would have to be satisfactory to the Bank. FODEIN's draft operating
policies were reviewed and found satisfactory during loan negotiations. The
establishment of FODEIN, pursuant to its operating norms and criteria and
regulations, formally approved by its Board of Directors and satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2.08      FODEIN would have two major objectives, which should help alleviate
the main constraints to sectoral growth, namely: (a) to provide financing on
adequate terms to export-oriented and efficient import-substitution industries
with export potential, and (b) to establish the effective institutional
set-up, including capable intermediaries, which would efficiently appraise,
finance and supervise industrial projects. FODEIN would also provide
inducement to financial intermediaries to extend term financing to smaller
enterprises.
2.09      Following the Government's goals to develop efficient industries
and to increase non-traditional exports (para. 1.19), FODEIN's evaluation
criteria for subprojects would stress financial and economlic soundness,
balance of payments impact, and employment contribution. Since export
opportunities to other CACM countries are rather limited due to product
similarity and relatively high wages, the expansion of exports outside
the CACM would be one of FODEIN's major goals. Financing rould primarily
be for manufacturing projects, including associated services such as repair
shops, with the share of agroindustry expected to be significant. Tourism,
which receives special financing, and local construction firms, whose
financial needs could be met by the existing credit of commercial banks,
would not be financed by FODEIN at this time.
Organization and Staff
2.10      At present CBCR's Development Credit Department administers
several credit lines for industry or agriculture, including the US$18.0 mil-
lion Bank loan (Loan 1410-CR) of June 1977 for Agricultural Credit and Rural
Development. Due to the importance and complexity of FODEIN's functions,
CBCR's management has decided to establish a separate administrative unit
which would either be attached to the Development Credit Department or become
a separate department within the Economic Affairs Division of CBCR.



- 15 -
2.11      In addition to administering FODEIN, the new administrative unit
could also assume responsibility for the existing tourism and exports promotion
fund and foreign credit lines for equipment financing, all of which are being
handled by CBCR. Following the establishment of FODEIN all .aew finiancing of
export industries under the export and tourism promotion fund would be dis-
continued. Financing of individual equipment items under foreign credit
lines, mainly of the medium-term suppliers' credit type, would continue
following the existing CBCR criteria 1/ and provisions of the respective
agreements.
2.12      The FODEIN unit would be headed by a director selected from the
senior professional staff of CBCR and approved by CBCR's Board of Directors.
Its initial staff would consist of at least an engineer, an economist, a
financial analyst, a statistician and two secretaries. As CBCR may have a
problem in securing permanent services of experienced senior professionals,
it would have to contract the services of two consultants (an economist and
an engineer) satisfactory to the Bank and with experience in project appraisal
and supervision, to assist and train FODEIN's staff (para. 2.41). The estab-
lishment of the FODEIN unit, its adequate staffing and hiring of both consult-
ants would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2.13      Under existing procedures all individual industrial financing opera-
tions of CBCR are approved by the Deputy Director of the Development Credit
Department. For FODEIN financing, the approval authority would be placed at a
higher level in order to improve review standards, and involve top management
of CBCR in operational and policy issues related to industrial lending. For
this purpose CBCR's management would establish a Credit Committee consisting
of the manager of CBCR, the Directors of its Economic Division and Development
Credit Department and its legal counsel. FODEIN's Director would participate
in the Committee's meetings without vote. The functions and procedures of
the Credit Committee were discussed at negotiations and would be reviewed by
the Central Bank and approved by the Board of Directors of CBCR prior to effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan. The Committee would consider all subprojects
for FODEIN's financing over US$250,000 equivalent. For smaller amounts, the
authorization by the Director of FODEIN's unit would be sufficient. In
addition, the Committee would review all requests for rescheduling of previous
FODEIN financing operations.
Resources and Financial Prospects
2.14      Resources.  Initial resources of FODEIN would consist of CBCR's
equity-type contribution to FODEIN's permanent resources of US$15.0 million
equivalent and the credit component of the proposed Bank loan of US$14.9 mil-
lion (para. 3.01), i.e., a total of US$29.9 million. CBCR's Board of
I/   Benefiting firms must provide evidence that: (a) value added amounts
to at least 60% of production costs, or (b) exports constitute at
least 60% of production, or (c) domestic raw materials represent at least
35% of all raw materials used.



- 16 -
Directors, which has virtually the same membership as the E.conomic Council,
Costa Rica's highest monetary authority, has decided to allocate the entire
amount of CBCR's contribution to FODEIN's account, to be held in CBCR without
interest and drawn as needed. This contribution would be made available in
full to FODEIN prior to effectiveness of the proposed loan. In addition, CBCR
would assume the obligation for repayment of the entire Bank loan (US$15.0
million) as well as for payments of interest and commitment fee, and use the
proceeds of its credit component to increase FODEIN's permanent resources.
CBCR would also take all necessary actions to prevent any reduction in FODEIN's
resources, which in the opinion of the Bank might impede the carrying out of
the project.  These arrangements were confirmed during loan negotiations.
2.15      Financial intermediaries would provide to subloans from their own
funds an equivalent of at least US$4.3 million, representing one-seventh of
FODEIN's financing. In addition to this mandatory contribution they would be
expected to arrange for conventional short-term working capital loans in the
amount required by subprojects. Assuming that FODEIN and its intermediaries
will finance on the average 70% of subproject costs (para. 2.27), with the
balance to be covered by the beneficiaries, the total investment resulting from
the project would amount to about US$49 million as summarized in Table 2-1.
Table 2-1:   SOURCES OF FINANCING
(In US$ Million)
Total
Local    Foreign           Contribution
FODEIN:
CBCR (equity)                        15.0         -            15.0  (30.7%)
IBRD Loan (credit component)           -         14.9          14.9  (30.5%)
Intermeliaries (minimum)                    4.3         -             4.3  ( 8.8%)
Beneficiaries (average)                    14.7         -            14.7  (30.0%)
Total                                34.0        14.9          48.9
(69.5%)    (30.5%)        (100.0%)
2.16      FODEIN's permanent resources of US$29.9 million equivalent would
provide FODEIN with a strong initial financial base. This is considered
necessary to induce the financial intermediaries to participate in the system
and upgrade their technical and administrative capabilities to appraise and
supervise industrial projects. It should also enable FODEIN to have an impact
on the amount and quality of term credit for industry both for financing
of fixed assets and permanent working capital. On the basis of industrial
investment estimates and projected disbursement by FODEIN and intermediaries,
the system would provide approximately 12% of the total new credit required
by industry over the 1979-81 period (para. 1.28) and about 4% of the total
investment needs of the sector over the same period (Annex 4, T-1 and T-3).



- 17 -
2.17      Projected operations and results.  Assuming that the amount of
new industrial credit would be about US$68 million equivalent per year
(para. 1.28), FODEIN should be in a position to commit, on the average,
about US$11 million equivalent annually and disburse about US$8 million
equivalent per year during the initial three years of its operations (Annex
4, T-3). On this basis, all its initial resources, including the proposed
Bank loan, would be committed by the end of CY81 and disbursed during
CY82. By then FODEIN would need to secure additional resources for project
lending from the Bank, CBCR or other financial institutions to at least
maintain the expected disbursement level of about US$15 million per year
after the first three years of operations.
2.18      FODEIN's financial projections are presented in Annex 4, T-4 and
T-5). Because of CBCR's contribution and its capitalization of the proposed
Bank loan, FODEIN would have no long-term debt, at least during the first
three years of its activities, and its liquidity would be ample. In this
situation FODEIN would generate by 1982 a gross annual profit of about 6.3%
on its average portfolio. It is not clear at this time whether FODEIN's
income would be subject to the same 50% mandatory distribution to the Govern-
ment which CBCR has to pay. CBCR will seek an exemption from this distri-
bution, but even if FODEIN were required to distribute part of its income,
its resource base would not be affected significantly (Annex 4, T-4).
C. Financing of Subprojects
Type of subprojects
2.19      The resources of FODEIN would be used for partial financing of fixed
assets, permanent working capital, preinvestment studies, as well as training
and other forms of technical assistance required by subborrowers. Second-
hand reconditioned equipment would be financed provided that an independent
appraisal by experts acceptable to FODEIN had been carried out.
2.20      Pursuant to its operational norms and regulations, FODEIN would
finance only specific projects which are technically viable, financially sound
and economically justified. Considering the newness of the proposed system,
no detailed list of specific industrial projects seeking FODEIN financing can
be compiled at this time. However, about one-half of FODEIN's financing is
expected to go to the food and beverage subsector, followed by textiles and
leather, and chemicals at about 13% each. These activities would account
for about 64% of the total employment generated by FODEIN's financed sub-
projects, which is estimated at 4,100 (Annex 4, T-6).
2.21      It is expected that a major part of new industrial establishments
to be financed by FODEIN would be processing industries based on local raw
materials from agriculture, which show the brightest prospects for the in-
crease in export earnings (para. 1.19). Another likely source of projects
for FODEIN's financing are labor-intensive export industries, of which
clothes, footwear, and electrical products are probably most promising. These
products are often manufactured by "maquila" industries working under process-
ing contracts mainly for the US market.



- 18 -
2.22      FODEIN financing would also include, especially in the case of
expansion of existing plants, industries based on imported raw materials,
mainly chemicals, fertilizers, metals, and mechanical and eletctrical compo-
nents. Presently these industries account for about 45% of the total indus-
trial value added and sell a large portion of their total output in foreign
markets. 1/ While many of these industries producing for domestic markets
are thriving behind high protective barriers, some should be sufficiently
efficient to compete abroad. The project appraisal techniques t6 be applied
under the FODEIN system, in particular the ERR calculation and the balance
of payment test (Annex 1), should help identify and select efficient and
economically justified projects.
Lending terms
2.23      FODEIN's financing, including the proposed Bank loan, would be made
for 2-15 years, depending on the nature of subproject and cash flow of
the borrowing enterprise, and would include an appropriate grace period for
the principal repayments not to exceed 3 years. The bulk of the funds would
be lent to financial intermediaries at 9% p.a., for relending to the indus-
trialists at a minimum interest rate of 12% p.a. Intermediaries would thus
have an interest differential of 3% p.a., which is considered adequate.
However, to induce the intermediaries to lend to smaller enterprises whose
equity and annual sales do not exceed US$150,000 equivalent and US$350,000
equivalent respectively, 2/ FODEIN would charge only 8% p.a. and give the
intermediaries an interest spread of 4% p.a. on these subloans.
2.24      The relending interest rate of 12% p.a. has been set by CBCR as the
highest rate at which national banks may lend for productive purposes. It
can be adjusted by CBCR whenever the situation may warrant it. The rate is
now positive in real terms (para. 1.25). However, since inflation could
increase in the future, the Bank and CBCR would review at least annually the
adequacy of the proposed relending rate within the overall structure of
interest rates in Costa Rica. Agreement on this review mechanism was reached
during negotiations. The first such review would take place about one year
after the signing date of the proposed loan as part of the Bank's loan super-
vision.
2.25      The interest spread for intermediaries of 3-4% p.a. is not large,
particularly taking into account that they have to establish new project
units (para. 2.34). A loan portfolio in excess of US$1.5 million would be
needed to cover the administrative costs of each of these units. However,
since national banks are expected to promote development activities and
since in the longer run the project units should be profitable, the interest
1/   In 1975 chemical and fertilizer industries exported 32.42 of their
output, mainly outside the CACM area, and the metal and machinery sub-
sector exported 28.2%.
2/   Based on past experience including the IDB loan (para. 2.02), the enter-
prises below these limits have only limited access to banking credit.



- 19 -
spread is considered satisfactory. It is acceptable to CBCR and the potential
intermediaries, which would also be allowed to charge a small one-time fee
for technical assistance and supervision of subprojects.
2.26      All subloans would be denominated in local currency units (colones),
and CBCR would shoulder the exchange rate risk of the proposed Bank loan.
Since CBCR would also assume the obligation to pay the Bank's commitment fee,
this charge would not be passed on to the subloan recipients.
2.27      According to FODEIN's operational criteria, FODEIN and the inter-
mediaries would jointly finance up to 65% of the total cost of new projects
of larger enterprises, and up to 80% in the case of smaller industrial units.
These percentages could be exceeded in financing expansions of existing plants
provided that the debt-to-equity ratio of the enterprise, including the sub-
project, does not exceed 2:1. In each case, the participation of the financial
intermediary would be at least one-seventh of FODEIN's financing.
2.28      FODEIN's overall financing to one project, enterprise or corporate
group would be limited to 15% of its permanent resources. FODEIN would not
lend more than US$2.0 million equivalent for any single subproject and this
amount would also constitute the upper subproject limit for the use of
proceeds of the proposed loan. However, with the mandatory participation
of the financial intermediary, the corresponding subloan could amount to
about US$2.3 million equivalent.
Guarantees
2.29      In addition to a higher interest differential for the intermediaries
in the case of smaller enterprises (para. 2.23) FODEIN would also establish a
guarantee scheme to reduce the risk of default, which seems to be a major
obstacle to increasing bank lending to smaller industrial clients. Under this
guarantee scheme FODEIN would, upon request of the finacial intermediary,
guarantee 30% of the outstanding principal amount of the intermediary's subloan,
including FODEIN's financing. The actual amount of FODEIN's payment under the
guarantee would be determined in each case after the judicial process against
the subloan beneficiary has been initiated. The proposed level of guarantee
is considered adequate by CBCR and all potential FODEIN intermediaries 1/ but,
if necessary, it could be adjusted in the future with Bank concurrence. For
its guarantee FODEIN would charge the beneficiary (through the intermediary)
a one-time fee of 1-1/2% on the original subloan amount. The scheme is
expected to be self-supporting and FODEIN would have sufficient permanent
resources to cover any temporary excess  payments without reducing its lending
activities. 2/ However, to eliminate any risk for FODEIN, CBCR would be respon-
sible for FODEIN's guarantee obligations. Establishment of the guarantee
scheme would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
1/   Assuming that the cost of a new project is ¢10, the intermediary's loan
could cover up to ¢80, and FODEIN would guarantee ¢24 (i.e., 30% of V80).
Thus, the value of the project pledged as collateral plus FODEIN's
guarantee would provide the security coverage of 1.55 (124 t 80 = 1.55),
which is normally considered to be adequate in Costa Rica.
2/   No funds of the proposed Bank loan would be involved.



- 20 -
Subprojects Review and Supervision
2.30      The analysis of subprojects for FODEIN financing would be carried
out in two stages:
(a) appraisals carried out by financial intermediaries;
and
(b) review of appraisals by FODEIN.
Each subloan application for FODEIN financing would be appraised by the
respective intermediary, following the appraisal guidelines to be provided
by FODEIN. Since there are in existence a number of consulting firms in Costa
Rica and larger industrialists are accustomed to use their services, it is
expected that loan applications would frequently be supported by feasibility
studies, which could also be financed by FODEIN. A copy of such a study would
then accompany the intermediary's appraisal report.
2.31      In the case of small loans up to US$50,000 equivalent the inter-
mediary would only be required to determine the viability of the firm and
its investment plan. In order to assist small enterprises in preparing their
loan applications, the participating intermediaries would be encouraged to
help subloan beneficiaries in locating and financing individual consultants
to prepare a simple viability study whenever necessary. An outline of such a
study has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. E;ach participa-
ting intermediary would have a sample list of qualified individual consultants
willing to render such services at modest cost. FODEIN's function would be
to assure an appropriate and complete analysis of each subproject. FODEIN's
staff would focus on checking and, if needed, assisting the intermediary in
improving the economic analysis of subprojects. The intermediaries' appraisals
would be expected to cover all major technical, financial and economic aspects
of subprojects including their impact on the balance of payments and employment,
as well as the financial position and capability of the borrowing enterprise.
In case of subloans over US$250,000 the analysis of subprojects would include
calculation of the economic rate of return (ERR); for subloans below US$250,000,
only a simplified calculation indicating the economic efficiency of subprojects
for a typical year would be required. FODEIN would also review the proposed
procurement list to assure that the proposed equipment is appropriate for each
subproject, that prices are reasonable and that the beneficiary had solicited
several offers for items in excess of US$50,000 each whenever called for.
This review is important to assist subborrowers in procuring the most suitable
items.
2.32      Financial intermediaries would be expected not only to follow
up on subloan repayments but also to undertake systematic supervision of all
their subprojects, including selected visits to project sites. Each bene-
ficiary would be required to submit to his intermediary bank periodic progress
reports and, at least annually, financial statements. The main function of
FODEIN would be to review the supervision plans of the intermeidiaries and to
monitor their follow-up work, mainly by reviewing their mandatory semi-annual
reports. In order to check on the intermediaries' supervision work and have



- 21 -
a better understanding of the problems encountered by industrial benefi-
ciaries, FODEIN staff would occasionally visit selected project sites,
and, when appropriate, could recommend improvements and technical assistance
through qualified consultants. For this purpose, the agreements between
FODEIN and the intermediaries, and the loan contracts between the latter and
the beneficiaries, would provide for access by FODEIN's staff (as well as
Bank staff) to subproject sites and to the information relevant to the
execution of subprojects. FODEIN would submit to the Bank semi-annual
reports on its review of the intermediaries' supervision work.
D. Intermediary Institutions
Eligibility Criteria
2.33      FODEIN financing would be limited to financial institutions which
would be acceptable to CBCR, meet FODEIN's eligibility criteria, and agree
to follow the prescribed norms of operation. Under the present banking law
only four state commercial banks 1/ and CODESA would be eligible candidates.
Should the law or its interpretation be changed to grant private institutions
access to CBCR's credit, additional banks or financieras such as COFISA might
become intermediaries of FODEIN (para. 2.06).
2.34      To qualify for FODEIN credit each participating commercial bank
would have to establish within its organization a separate project unit spe-
cialized in the provision of medium- and long-term credit. Each project unit
would have permanent, equity-type resources, separate accounting, and be sub-
ject to an independent audit. The total debt of each unit could not exceed
its permanent resources by more than 7:1. 2/ Each intermediary bank would
be expected to adopt special operating rules for the unit acceptable to
CBCR and the Bank (Annex 3). As a condition of loan effectiveness CBCR
would submit to the Bank the names of at least two intermediaries which would
be eligible as FODEIN's intermediaries and would establish organization,
staff and financial set-ups called for under FODEIN's operating policies and
regulations.
2.35      Each unit would have to count on an adequate professional staff
for: (a) appraisal of subprojects for term financing and their supervision,
and (b) provision of advice and technical assistance that may be necessary
for the preparation and implementation of these subprojects. The staffing
pattern and the staff of each unit would have to be satisfactory to FODEIN.
While ultimately it would consist of at least three professionals (an engi-
neer, an economist and a financial analyst), initially some contractual ser-
vices could be used by the project units.
1/   These are:  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, Banco de Costa Rica, Banco
Anglo-Costarricense, and Banco de Credito Agricola de Cartago.
2/   This ratio corresponds to the mandatory minimum participation of
intermediaries in FODEIN financing.



- 22 -
2.36      To join the FODEIN system CODESA would have to set: up a subsidiary
or a separate development banking unit which would lend to private or mixed
enterprises. This unit would operate under a separate policy statement to be
approved by the Board of Directors of CODESA and satisfactory to FODEIN and
the Bank. A draft policy statement for CODESA's subsidiary is contained in
the Project File (Annex 5, 13).
2.37      The rather stringent requirement of separately funded units of
commercial banks is designed not only to promote project lending and dis-
seminate proper appraisal techniques, but also to initiate the build-up of
a development-oriented system of multifunctional banking ins-titutions.
This approach is feasible in Costa Rica, given its banking law which permits
separate capitalization of specialized units of state banks and the willing-
ness of these banks to develop separate facilities for term lending.
Present Capabilities
2.38      Because of their relatively large volume of industrial lending
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica and Banco de Costa Rica already have separate
industrial units although without permanent resources, while the other two
state banks handle industrial loans jointly with other credit operations.
Banco de Costa Rica, following the requirement of IDB loans, has professional
staff to undertake appraisal of industrial projects and, undoubtedly, is best
prepared to participate in the FODEIN system. Yet, in all these institutions,
including Banco de Costa Rica, short-term working capital and personal loans
as well as financing of industrial projects are handled by the same personnel
(loan officers or analysts) and are approved primarily on the basis of col-
lateral. Generally, project analysis is not given proper weight in the loan
approval process.
2.39      CODESA has a large professional staff of 25 persons (including
10 engineers), who are evenly divided between the operations and evaluation
departments. These professionals work either on the preparation of projects
promoted by CODESA, or in the control and management of CODESA's own enter-
prises. In spite of a high turnover of professional personniel--attracted
by better pay and benefits in the private sector--the quality of CODESA's
professional staff is quite good in general. Some of this staff have adequate
experience in project appraisal and supervision and could be transferred
to CODESA's development banking unit if the latter is organized.
E. Technical Assistance Needs
Staff Training
2.40      The proposed scheme would require qualified staff for both FODEIN
and its intermediaries. At present neither CBCR nor its potential inter-
mediaries, with the possible exceptions of CODESA and Banco de Costa Rica,



- 23 -
have adequate and experienced staff, capable of appraising and supervising
industrial projects and providing technical assistance to the borrowing
enterprises. While some professional staff could, possibly, be reassigned
within each institution, additional professionals, especially engineers,
would have to be hired and a training scheme, consisting of short-term
seminars in project appraisal and supervision techniques, would have to be
arranged. CBCR's management has agreed to assume responsibility-for logis-
tics of these seminars in which Bank staff would participate on an ad hoc
basis. To help prepare and run the seminars CBCR would need to contract
outside consultants who could be financed under the proposed loan. During
negotiations CBCR provided assurance to establish a training program satisfac-
tory to the Bank not later than March 31, 1979 and to carry out such program
in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants for FODEIN
2.41      The principal objective of the consultants' assistance would be to
help the FODEIN department in:   (a) organizing training for professional
staff of FODEIN and the participating intermediaries in the methodology
and techniques of project appraisal, (b) developing appropriate manuals and
guidelines, and (c) supervising and working with FODEIN's staff on project
appraisal and follow-up. FODEIN would need one consultant with economic
and financial background to act as senior advisor to FODEIN's Director on
developing lending operations and policies and be in charge of the training
program, and one senior industrial engineer who would organize and advise
the technical unit of FODEIN. Both advisors, acceptable to the Bank, would
need to be contracted for one year by the time of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
2.42      The total cost of the two senior consultants, estimated at US$120,000
(24 man-months at US$5,000 per month) could be financed under the proposed
loan (para. 3.01). Costs of local supporting staff, materials, and supplies
would be absorbed by CBCR. The terms of reference and contracting schedules
for the consultants were reviewed during loan negotiations. Since the services
of consultants, if possible, should be procured before signing of the proposed
loan, retroactive reimbursement to CBCR would be permitted for the cost of
technical assistance not to exceed US$50,000 (para. 3.05).
Assistance to Beneficiaries
2.43      Financial intermediaries would have primary responsibility for
assisting their industrial clients in project preparation and execution.
Their technical staff would be expected to provide advice on how to prepare
and present projects for FODEIN financing and, in the project execution stage,
to help recognize actual and potential problems and to assist in their
solution.
2.44      Except for occasional site visits FODEIN's staff would not be
directly involved in the supervision of subprojects. However, FODEIN would
help industrial beneficiaries by identifying, arranging and coordinating



- 24 -
technical assistance provided by other institutions. In this respect it
would work closely with MEIC, the Chamber of Industries, the Export Promotion
Center and the participating financial intermediaries to disseminate informa-
tion about FODEIN's financing, and the available technical assistance,
particularly among smaller firms.
2.45      The Export Promotion Center is responsible for assisting industrial
exporters.  It also evaluates applications for CATs and reconmends their
approval by MEIC.  FODEIN would explore with MEIC and the Center the possi-
bility of expediting awards of fiscal benefits to FODEIN's beneficiaries.
Also, FODEIN would arrange that the Center clearly define the! services avail-
able to FODEIN's industrial clients which would be listed in a brochure
describing FODEIN's system and activities, and which would be available for
distribution through the participating intermediaries and the Center.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General Description
Amount and Terms
3.01      The proposed loan of US$15.0 million would be made to CBCR, as
Borrower, at the Bank's prevailing interest rate of 7.5% p.a. and standard
commitment fee of 3/4 of IZ p.a. The loan would be guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of Costa Rica. Up to US$120,000 could be used by CBCR to cover contract
costs of two consultants to FODEIN, leaving approximately US$14.9 million for
relending through financial intermediaries for industrial subprojects.
3.02      CBCR would assume repayments of principal and payments of interest
and commitment fee under the loan.  Subloan repayments and interest payments by
the intermediaries (all in local currency), would be retained by FODEIN and
would serve to increase its permanent resources. Bank loan repayments would be
b 'sed on a fixed amortization schedule. The repayment period would be 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, which would be appropriate on country grounds.
Approval Limits for Subprojects
3.03      The terms and conditions of FODEIN's subloans discussed in paras.
2.23 to 2.28 would also be applicable to financing under the proposed loan.
The limit for FODEIN's financing of subprojects under the loan without prior
Bank approval (free limit) would be US$250,000, except that the first two
subprojects of each intermediary involving Bank financing would also require
Bank approval. In addition, the first two subloans involving FODEIN's
guarantee would be submitted for Bank review. Participating intermediaries
would have no "free limit" vis-a-vis FODEIN, but their applications for
FODEIN's financing of up to US$250,000 equivalent would be reviewed by FODEIN
on an ex-post basis, within 60 days of their receipt. The above approval
'imits are expected to result in the review by the Bank of a representatived
sample of some 20-25 subprojects, covering about 50% of the loan amount. In
' iition, selected projects below the free limit would be reviewed on a
.Jst-approval basis by supervision missions in the field.



- 25 -
Procurement
3.04      The loan funds would finance the foreign exchange costs of imported
and locally procured equipment, materials and services, including the foreign
exchange component of construction contracts. Consulting services would be
open to international recruitment. The financial intermediaries and FODEIN
would satisfy themselves that procurement items were suitable for the
respective investment projects and reasonably priced, and that the bene-
ficiaries had canvassed the main sources of supply and were purchasing from
the most advantageous source.   Whenever justified, items would be procured on
the basis of several quotations, in accordance with standard practice for
DFC-type projects. Foreign equipment suppliers are well represented in Costa
Rica. Since it may be difficult or relatively costly to obtain quotations
from several suppliers in case of small orders, the solicitation of offers
would be expected mostly for procurement items valued above US$50,000.
Disbursements
3.05      Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made to CBCR against
standard documents. The loan proceeds would be used to finance the following:
(a) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, including goods purchased off-the-shelf
from domestic distributors, whenever c.i.f. prices can be established; (b) 65%
of the total expenditures net of taxes for imported machinery, equipment and
services purchased locally; (c) 35% of the total cost of civil works; and (d)
100% of expenditures under the technical assistance component for FODEIN.
Items (b) and (c) are estimates of the foreign exchange components of local
procurement. Retroactive financing of up to US$50,000 for a technical assist-
ance contract is anticipated.
3.06      Expenditures made within 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank receives CBCR's request for subproject approval or disbursement authori-
zation would be eligible for Bank financing. The usual 90-day limit for
DFC-type loans would be extended because of FODEIN's double intermediation,
which is a longer process. The loan should be committed by December 31, 1980,
and disbursed by June 30, 1982 (Annex 4, T-9).
B. Benefits and Risks
3.07      The proposed loan would contribute to fill a major gap in term
financing of private industrial enterprises in Costa Rica. It is expected to
help finance about one-half of FODEIN's subproject financing or up to 100
subprojects with a total cost of about US$25 million equivalent, contributing
about 7% of the new credit required by the industry over the expected loan
disbursement period (1979-81) (Annex 4, T-7). Over the same time the FODEIN
system, including mandatory contributions of its intermediaries, would provide
about 12% of the new credit expected to be used by Costa Rican industry, a
substanitial contribution to the sectoral growth.



- 26 -
3.08      Using the existing system of multifunctional state commercial
banks and, possibly, a new subsidiary or separate unit of CODESA, the loan
would help build up an institutional network of specialized banking units
designed to provide term financing on the basis of project appraisal. In
addition to industry, activities in other productive sectors like agriculture
and tourism could be served by these units and benefit from the new expertise
to be gained under the project.
3.09      The FODEIN  system is not intended to accommodate any particular
size of industrial establishment. Its maximum financing of US$2.0 million
is high enough to accommodate most industrial enterprises and while there
is no lower lending limit FODEIN is not likely to finance subloans below
US$20,000. The bulk of FODEIN's financing would assist enterprises
which are considered to be small to medium size in the Costa Rican context.
However, smaller enterprises as defined in para. 2.23 have been given special
consideration in the proposed system. A higher interest spread for the
intermediaries, the guarantee scheme, and the simplified subloan requirements
and appraisal procedures have been specially designed to accommodate lending
to those enterprises which generally have greater difficulty in getting access
to banking credit. If these measures prove to be effective, as much as
one-half of FODEIN's resources, including the proposed loan, may be used to
finance subprojects costing less than US$250,000 each, including some below
US$50,000.
3.10      Based on the sectoral analysis of potential subprojects, the ERR
of an average subproject is expected to be above 15% (Annex 4, T-8). New
employment directly generated by subprojects financed by FODEIN should amount
to about 4,100 jobs at an average cost per job of US$11,800 (in 1975 prices),
which is quite satisfactory (Annex 4, T-6).
3.11      The loan should also increase the involvement of CBCR in industrial
financing and strengthen coordination between CBCR and MEIC with respect to
monetary and industrial policies. To the extent the loan would assist in
financing of subprojects with good export prospects, it would complement the
Government's efforts to increase exports of non-traditional commodities, thus
helping to diversify overall exports and stabilize the balan,ce of payments.
3.12      The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risks. However, because a new and untested institutional set-up would be
established under the project, initial delays in subloan processing, both by
the intermediaries and FODEIN, may occur. To minimize implemaentation delays
the Bank would supervise the project very closely during the first year,
including participation in the training program for the staff of FODEIN and
its intermediaries.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations CBCR agreed to make a contribution of US$15.0
million equivalent to FODEIN's permanent resources and to make all payments
of principal, interest and commitment charges on the World Bank loan, allowing



- 27 -
FODEIN to retain principal and interest payments on subloans by the inter-
mediaries as part of its own permanent resources (paras. 2.14 and 3.02).
CBCR also agreed to review with the Bank at least annually the adequacy
of lending interest rates of the FODEIN system with the first such review
to take place about one year after loan signing (para. 2.24). the proposed
Operating Policies and Regulations for FODEIN, which are acceptable to the
Bank, were confirmed by CBCR which also restated its determination to
establish within FODEIN a scheme to guarantee loans to smaller enterprises
(paras. 2.07 and 2.29). As further agreed, not later than May 31, 1979,
CBCR would establish a training program for the staff of FODEIN and the
participating intermediaries and would carry out such program in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.40). Finally, CBDR agreed
to take all actions necessary to prevent any reduction in FODEIN's resources,
which in the opinion of the Bank might impede the carrying out of the project
(para. 2.14).
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be that:
(i) FODEIN be established with operating policies and regulations
acceptable to the Bank, and provision be made to guarantee
loans for smaller enterprises (paras. 2.07 and 2.29);
(ii)  An adequately staffed unit be established to administer
FODEIN (para. 2.12);
(iii) CBCR make available its US$15.0 million equivalent contri-
bution to FODEIN (para. 2.14);
(iv)  The credit committee which will approve FODEIN operations be
established with regulations satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.13);
(v) At least two intermediaries be declared eligible to participate
in the project (para. 2.34); and
(vi)  Two consultants, acceptable to the Bank be contracted under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.41).
4.03      With the indicated agreements and assurances obtained, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million, for a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, as outlined in Chapter III.



- 28 -                     ANNEX I
Page 1
Translation from Spanish
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Operating Policies and Procedures
(Draft)
1.   Introduction
The Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial - FODEIN (Industrial Development
Fund) shall be established by the Central Bank of Costa Rica (BC) for an
indefinite period, its purpose being to meet the medium- and long-term financial
requirements of the industrial sector, in accordance with these Policies and
Procedures and Regulations issued pursuant thereto.
FODEIN shall be administered by a Department within the Economic
Division of the Central Bank. This Department shall be responsible for
reviewing the project appraisals submitted to FODEIN by financial inter-
mediaries, for monitoring the technical supervision conducted by financial
intermediaries of projects financed by them through FODEIN, aLnd for supervising
the other functions performed by the administrative units within said financial
intermediaries that handle operations with FODEIN.
2.   Objectives
FODEIN shall finance exclusively projects that are technically
feasible and financially and economically sound.  FODEIN shall utilize its
funds to promote production and increase efficiency in the maLnufacturing
industry and related services, as established in the separate Regulations.
Acting through financial intermediaries, FODEIN shall finance
private and mixed-economy companies by granting medium and long-term loans
(2-15 years) with grace periods of up to three years. The repayment terms
and grace periods shall be tailored to suit the individual needs of each
borrower.
To facilitate access to credit for companies with a net worth of
less than US$150,000 equivalent and annual sales of less than US$350,000
equivalent, FODEIN shall guarantee 30% of the total value of the joint
loans issued by itself and the financial intermediaries.
3.   Resources
FODEIN shall have its own resources and independent: accounts and
shall be adequately staffed to perform its activities effectiLvely. FODEIN
funds shall comprise:  (i) permanent and interest-free contriLbutions from
the Central Bank; (ii) national and foreign loans and donations, (iii) loan
repayment receipts and (iv) operating profits.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.   Purpose of financing
FODEIN funds shall be channeled in the form of loans for partial
financing of the following categories of industrial project costs:
(a) fixed assets;
(b) permanent working capital;
(c) technical/economic studies for the preparation of projects
suitable for financing;
(d) training and technical assistance required for the projects
to be financed.
5.   Participation of financial intermediaries
Loans granted from FODEIN funds shall be channeled through financial
intermediaries which have access to Central Bank funds under current legislation
and which have separate units specializing in medium and long-term lending.
Such units must meet the following requirements:
(a) They will have separate permanent resources and their accounts
shall be audited by independent auditors. The ratio they show
between total indebtedness and permanent resources shall not
exceed the ratio of 7:1;
(b) They shall have adequate staff of their own engaged exclusively
in: (i) the appraisal of projects for medium and long-term
financing; (ii) the systematic and continuous supervision of
projects being financed; and (iii) the provision of the advice
and technical assistance needed to implement the projects
financed;
(c) They shall adopt operating policies and procedures acceptable
to the Central Bank.
6.   Loan Conditions
All loans granted by FODEIN shall be expressed in local currency.
All exchange risks in connection with the funds received by FODEIN shall be
borne by the Central Bank.
The annual interest rate payable by the ultimate borrowers shall
not be less than 12% and shall be established by the Central Bank. The
annual interest rate payable to FODEIN by the financial intermediaries shall
be three percentage points less than that payable by the ultimate borrowers.
In the case of loans to small companies, the rate shall be lower by four
percentage points.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
FODEIN and a financial intermediary may provide joint financing of
up to 65% of the total cost of a new project in the case of large companies,
and up to 80% in the case of small companies (see Item 2). In the case of
expansion projects the proportions to be financed by FODEIN and the inter-
mediary may be higher, providing the company's ratio of indebtedness to equity,
including the project, does not exceed 2:1. In each case the financing
provided by the financial intermediary shall amount to at least one-seventh
of the financing provided by FODEIN.
FODEIN shall be limited in its financing of a single project,
company or group of companies, to a maximum in cumulative loans of 15% of
its permanent resources, after deduction of any losses. FODEIN may normally
provide financing up to a maximum of US$2 million equivalent: for a single
project.
7.   System of Guarantees
The intermediary institutions shall require ultimaLte borrowers to
provide the necessary guarantees, in accordance with relevarLt current
legislation. All collateral instruments issued by the borrowers, as well
as goods pledged as security, may be negotiated by the intermediary insti-
tutions should the borrowers fail to perform their obligations on time.
In the case of companies defined in Item 2, an intermediary
may apply to FODEIN for a guarantee of 30% of the balance of the joint loan
issued by FODEIN and itself, in respect of which it shall paLy FODEIN a one-
time guarantee fee of 1.5% of the total amount of the joint loan. The
amount payable by FODEIN to the intermediary in respect of guarantees shall
be determined in each case after judicial proceedings have been declared open.
FODEIN shall then immediately credit the intermediary's account with the
amount so determined.
8.   Project selection, appraisal and supervision
FODEIN shall finance only specific projects that are technically
feasible, and financially and economically sound and that meet the eligibility
criteria established by FODEIN.
Project analysis shall be effected in two stages:
(a) Appraisal studies by the financial intermediaries;
(b) Review of these appraisals by FODEIN.
In the case of loans for amounts in excess of US$400,000 equivalent,
the intermediary banks shall be required to prepare appraisal studies on the
basis of detailed information furnished by the loan applicants. These
studies shall contain data on the following, inter alia:



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(a) internal financial rate of return;
(b) internal economic rate of return;
(c) net impact on the balance of payments measured by the present
value of the flow of foreign exchange, during the life'of the
project;
(d) investment cost per job.
In the case of loans for amounts less than US$400,000 equivalent the
appraisal studies, which may be less detailed shall indicate for the first
year of full production:
(a) the project's after-tax profit/investment ratio;
(b) value added/investment ratio;
(c) value added measured at international prices to investment
costs, (excluding customs duties and other taxes);
(d) investment cost per job.
In addition to the aspects indicated above, the appraisal studies
shall in all cases examine technical feasibility, marketing and financial
aspects as well as administrative capacity, financial solvency and borrowing
capacity of the enterprise; they shall also include projections of the borrower's
financial position (balance sheets, profit and loss and cash flow statements).
In the case of small companies where the loan application is for
less than US$50,000 equivalent, it shall be sufficient for FODEIN to receive
an appraisal of the company's viability and its project investment plan. The
scope of this type of study shall be established by FODEIN.
FODEIN shall receive loan applications through the financial inter-
mediaries and shall approve the use of funds on the basis of its review of the
appraisals made by the intermediaries. In the case of loan applications for
less than US$250,000 equivalent, the FODEIN review shall be made ex-post
within 60 days of the receipt of each application. In the event that FODEIN,
in the course of such a review discovers that the appraisal had not been done
as required, the loan shall then be financed out of the financial intermediary's
own funds, without FODEIN participation.
FODEIN shall require the intermediaries to undertake the systematic
superivision of the projects financed. For its part FODEIN shall make various
on-site inspections of the projects to check on the supervision effected by
the intermediaries. In any case where it is deemed advisable, FODEIN may
recommend that technical assistance be obtained (in the areas of production,
marketing, accounting, administration, etc.) by the borrower from qualified
consultants; such services may be financed by FODEIN.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
9.        The contracts signed between FODEIN and the intermediaries and
between the latter and the borrowers shall specify that both the intermediaries
and FODEIN shall have access to all data deemed necessary in connection with
the execution of the projects and that they may inspect and supervise said
projects. The intermediaries shall in all cases require that the borrowers
furnish them with financial statements at least once a year and no later than
90 days after the close of the fiscal year.
10. Supervision of intermediaries
FODEIN shall make periodic supervisory checks (semi-annual and
annual) on the intermediaries and shall evaluate:
(a) The operation of the institution and the staffing of its
departments responsible for administering medium- and
long-term loans;
(b) The financial position of the departments administering
medium- and long-term loans;
(c) The efficiency of the project appraisal system;
(d) The efficiency of the system for supervising projecits
and providing them with technical assistance; and
(e) Statistics indicating the use and features of loans that FODEIN has
channeled through them and allowing comparison of the performance of
the different institutions involved.
11.       Following these supervisory checks, FODEIN shall make recommendations
to each intermediary regarding any corrective measures that would improve its
efficiency in development financing.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
Translation from Spanish
FODEIN
Regulations Implcinenting the Operating Policies and Procedures
(Draft)
1.   ObJectives
(a) The purpose of the FODEIN Lending Program, part of the Central
Bank Credit Program, is to provide financing for industrial
projects that are technically feasibile and financially and
technically sound.
The financing, to be channeled through financial inter-
mediaries that meet FODEIN's standards of eligibility shall be
aimed at new or expanding industrial projects geared to exports,
import substitution and efficient growth in domestic production.
FODEIN shall decide on the eligibility of each project submitted
for consideration by reviewing the technical, financial and
economic appraisal reports prepared by the financial intermediary
involved. Such review shall take into account the objectives
established in the National Development Plan, especially with
regard to project impact on value added, labor intensiveness,
effect on the balance of payments and geographic decentralization
of production. Detailed selection criteria are set forth in the
"Appraisal Guidelines", Annex A 1/ to these Regulations.
(b) To facilitate access to credit in the case of companies with
a net worth of less than US$150,000 equivalent and annual
sales of less than US$350,000 equivalent, FODEIN shall provide
guarantees to the financial intermediaries covering 30% of the
balance of the joint loan granted by FODEIN and the finaicial
intermediary.
2.   Administration
(a) Management. FODEIN shall be managed by a Department within the
Economic Affairs Division of the Central Bank, adequately
.staffed to ensure its efficient operation.
(b) Functions and Organization. The Department shall be appropriately
organized for the performance of the following functions:
(i) direction and coordination of operations; (ii) review of
project appraisals; (iii) evaluation of project superivision
activities undertaken by the intermediaries; (iv) supervision of
the departments of financial intermediaries responsible for
1/   To be prepared.



_ 34 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 2
The Department's staff shall be qualified to perform
the said funct-ions effectively and from the outset will include
experts in economic, financial analysis and engineering and will
have the support of other Central Bank Departments.
(c)  Hiring of staff.  Salary levels and staff hiring and promotions
policies of the FODEIN Department shall be subject to the internal
employment regulations of the Central Bank.  However, if the
Department should deem it necessary, the Central Bank may hire
specialized outside agencies (national or foreign) for technical
studies or hire individual consultants (national or foreign) for
certain assignments, such as training. The cost of services
rendered to FODEIN by other Departments of the Central Bank may
be charged to FODEIN's account.
3.   Resources
(a)  FODEIN shall have its own permanent resources and separate accounts,
which shall be audited by the Office of the Auditor General of Banks.
(i) FODEIN's initial resources shall comprise a permanent
interest-free contribution from the Central Bank of
US$15 million equivalent as well as the proceeds of a
possible World Bank loan of about (US$15 million) which
shall be credited to the FODEIN account at the tiime of
disbursement and become a part of permanent and interest-
free resources of FODEIN. The Central Bank shall assume
all obligations to the World Bank in respect of the
repayments of principal and payments of interest and fees
on the loans;
(ii) The Central Bank may in the future contract other loans,
receive donations or use other sources of funds to be
credited to the FODEIN account on whatever terms the
Central Bank may deem appropriate;
(iii)  The net profits deriving from FODEIN operations, which
shall be exempted from the provisions of Article 5,
Law 4845 (October 15, 1971), shall be credited by the
Central Bank to FODEIN's account permanently and fEree of
interest; and
(iv)  All monies repaid to FODEIN in respect of loans shall be
added to FODEIN's permanent funds, available for new loan
disbursements.
(b)  FODEIN shall prepare an annual estimate of expenditures for approval
by the Central Bank, taking into account its needs in terms of staff,
the hiring of outside consultants, training and other administrative
costs, based on an annual program of operations which shall also
be submitted to the Central Bank for approval.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.   Purpose of financing
FODEIN funds shall be channeled in the form of loans for partial
financing of the following categories of industrial project costs:
(a) fixed assets (machinery, equipment, industrial cargo
vehicles, civil works and industrial buildings) both
domestic and imported. The procurement of reconditioned
machinery and equipment may be financed if economically
acceptable to FODEIN;
(b) permanent working capital (initial inventory of raw materials
and spare parts);
(c) technical-economic studies for the preparation for projects
suitable for financing;
(d) training and technical assistance required for the projects
to be financed.
5.   Procedures and Operations
(a) Applications: All loan applications shall be submitted to FODEIN
through the financial intermediaries, accompanied by loan appraisals
prepared by the latter. Each appraisal shall include a list of goods
and services to be financed and their specifications in commercial
terms. Each loan application submitted to FODEIN shall have been
previously approved in principle by the financial intermediary.
All appraisals and lists of goods and services prepared by
the intermediaries shall follow the models included in the "Appraisal
Guidelines" in Annex A to these Regulations 1/ and which FODEIN shall
forward to the Intermediaries.
(b) Review of appraisals by FODEIN: FODEIN shall review the appraisals
made by intermediaries, checking that appraisal requirements have
been met satisfactorily, that all aspects of the proposed project
have been studied and that appraisal methodologies, assumptions and
conclusions are reasonable and in keeping with accepted principles
and standards. FODEIN shall examine goods and services lists,
ensuring that prices indicated are reasonable and that, if the cost
of an individual item exceeds US$50,000 equivalent, at least three
quotations have been obtained, whenever possible.
1/  To be prepared.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
FODEIN shall prepare an appraisal review report for each
application giving its conclusions and recommendations on the
appraisal and the project, supported by its opinions on the
different aspects of the appraisal as indicated in the "Guidelines
for Appraisal Review" contained in Annex B to these Regulations. 1/
FODEIN shall obtain any additional information required to complete
its review satisfactorily, whether furnished by the intermediary or
obtained from other sources. If necessary, FODEIN shall help the
financial intermediary to improve on the project or appraisal by
providing additional information or commenting on specific
aspects of either appraisal or project.
(c)  Loan approval:  Taking the recommendations contained in the appraisal
review report, Director of FODEIN may approve the use of funds for
loans amounting to less than US$250,000 equivalent. In the case of
larger amounts, FODEIN's Director shall submit the application to the
Credit Committee. This committee, composed of the Manager of the
Central Bank, the Director of Economic Division, the Director of
Development Credit and a legal adviser, shall be governed by its own
by-laws, as approved by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank.
The Credit Committee shall consider all applications for the
refinancing of loans previously granted by FODEIN.
(d) Issuing of guarantees: In the case of small companies whose
equity is less than US$150,000 equivalent and whose annual sales do
not exceed US$350,000, FODEIN, at the request of the financial
intermediary, shall guarantee 30% of the outstanding balance
of the joint loan issued by FODEIN and the intermediary, not
including any interest overdue. Equity shall be taken to mean
pain-in capital, legal reserves, retained profits and other
unallocated reserves to cover real or probable losses. The
equity limit shall include the total equity of the group of
companies with which the company in question might be affiliated.
The_,mount paid by FODEIN to an intermediary in respect of guarantees
shall be decided in each case at the time of declaring the judicial
proceeding open in the case of any borrower entity which has been
unable to perform its obligations vis-a-vis the intermediary.
FODEIN shall credit the intermediary's account with the amount of
the guarantee as soon as a decision has been reached on the amount
to be paid in this respect.
FODEIN shall collect a one-time guarantee fee of 1.5% on
the amount of the joint loan issued by itself and the financial
intermediary. The intermediary shall pay FODEIN this guarantee
fee upon signature of its own agreement with the borrower. The
1/   To be prepared.



- 37 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 5
intermediary may finance payment of this fee by the borrower,
from its own funds on whatever terms it sees fit; this financing
shall be over and above the amount of the loan approved to finance
the project.
FODEIN shall meet its obligations in respect of gurantees out
of its own funds and in the event these prove insufficient the
Central Bank shall assume these obligations.
(e) Supervision of projects. FODEIN shall require the intermediaries to
supervise the projects being financed. It shall receive a semi-
annual report from the intermediaries on their supervisory activities,
which will show in a summary form the financial position of borrowers,
any general problems encountered by them, any recommended solutions
put forward and the technical assistance given and proposed by the
intermediaries. FODEIN may, if it sees fit, request information
on the supervision of specific projects and may make on-site inspections
in the case of certain borrowers. Every six months, with three months'
prior notice, FODEIN shall ask the intermediaries for their inspection
program for the next six months.
FODEIN shall prepare half-yearly review reports on the super-
vision work of each intermediary and if necessary shall recommend
corrective measures the intermediaries should take to improve
their supervisory activities as regards monitoring of works progress,
start-ups and post-project operations.
Details of the information required on supervision and the format
for reports to be prepared by FODEIN and the intermediaries are given
in Annex C to these Regulations. 1/
(f) Supervision of intermediaries: FODEIN shall supervise the units
maintained by the financial intermediaries for channeling FODEIN
loans, in order to ensure smooth program operation, assist the
intermediaries in identifying problems liable to impair their
effectiveness in the development lending area and recommend
solutions.
FODEIN supervision shall be continuous in nature taking the
form of frequent contacts, analysis of the periodic information
received from the intermediaries and regular visits by FODEIN
staff.
FODEIN shall focus special attention on the following aspects:
(a) institutional development and the staffing requirements of
the units responsible for channeling FODEIN loans;
1/   To be prepared.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(b) financial position of these units;
(c) effectiveness of the project appraisal system;
(d)  effectiveness of the system for supervising projects and
providing technical assistance;
(e) a study of the characteristics and impact of FODEIN loans,
based on statistics prepared by the intermediariies.
Through its review of and comments on the projecit appraisals
prepared by the intermediaries, FODEIN shall closely monitor the
effectiveness of the project appraisal system and do all it can to
ensure a high standard of appraisal.
On the basis of the semi-annual and annual report sent it by
the intermediaries, supplemented by staff visits to them, FODEIN shall
prepare supervision reports in accordance with the outline contained
in Annex D to these Regulations giving its conclusions and
recommendations regarding the institutional development, staffing
needs, financial position and appraisal and supervision capacity of
the intermediaries.
(g)  Disbursements and control.  Before authorizing disbursements to in-
termediaries, FODEIN shall check that all requirement have been met
in terms of: (a) the conditions of disbursement indicated in the loan
agreements, FODEIN's own disbursement guidelines (Annex E to these
Regulations) 1/ and other legal provisions; (b) whether the items for
which disbursement is requested are consistent with the list of
goods and services approved for the project; (c) whether the goods
and services meet the requirements as regards origin, payment and
procurement dates established in the respective contracts and
whether appropriate insurance coverage has been obtained.
In the case of reimbursements to intermediaries, proof of pay-
ment shall be required in the form of invoices and certificates of
payment, in the case of imported goods, bills of lading shall also
be required. In the case of reimbursement of payments in respect
of services, a statement shall also be given of work progress.
When World Bank loan proceeds are being used, the financial
intermediary may ask FODEIN to effect disbursements direct to the
suppliers on its behalf, in which case it shall send FODEIN the
corresponding invoices and bills of lading. FODEIN shall keep
up-to-date records of the disbursements authorized and effected in
respect to each loan.
1/  To be prepared.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
(h) Promotion of loan facilities: FODEIN shall promote its lines of
credit by a variety of means, including: (a) a brochure describing
the features of its loans, the availability of technical and
financial assistance and the procedures to be followed by potential
borrowers to obtain a loan (b) periodic publications on its
activities, goals and programs and on opportunities in the industrial
sector; (c) meetings with groups of potential borrowers.
FODEIN shall coordinate its promotion and assistance activities
with other institutions connected with the industrial and export
sectors, such as the Ministries, CENPRO and the Chambers of Industry
and Commerce, and explore possibility of expediting awards of fiscal
benefits to its industrial clients.
(i) Work programming: To enable it to perform its functions effectively,
FODEIN shall prepare work programs annually, or more frequently if
necessary, for its lending and supervisory operations and for its
staffing and training needs. Using these programs as a basis, it
shall also prepare financial projections in the form of provisional
balance sheets, profit and loss statements and the use and
source of its funds, and detailed operation budgets.



-40 -                   ANNEX 3
Page 1
Translation from Spanish
Operating Policies and Procedures for
the Financial Intermediaries
(Draft)
The purpose of this statement is to summarize the policies applying to
activities of the project units set up by financial intermediaries for the
purpose of participating in the Industrial Development Fund (FODEIN) of
the Central Bank of Costa Rica.
I.   Objectives
1.   A project unit shall assist with the promotion, financing and
development of efficiently run private enterprises seeking to expand their
operations and profitability, when such endeavors will contribute directly
to national economic growth. As a frame of reference to guide its activities,
the unit shall follow the Government's priorities as embodied in the National
Development Plan. Although the main area of activity shall be the medium- and
long-term financing of industrial and agro-industrial companies, including
services relating to the respective projects, such as industrial transportation,
the following shall also be eligible for financing ....... Financing of
general commerce, personal loans, housing and purchase of land, is expressly
excluded.
2.   The project unit shall assist the establishment and development of
private companies; it shall not provide financial assistance for companies in
which the Governent holds more than 25% of stock with voting power, that are
controlled by the Government in some other way or that operate through some
govermental agency. Enterprises which have access to other sources of credit
on reasonable terms shall not be eligible for financing.
II. Operations
3.   The unit shall operate in the following main areas of activity:
a.   granting medium- and long-term loans, i.e. 2-15 years, with a
reasonable grace period for repayment of principal not exceeding
three years;
b.   guaranteeing payment in respect of the procurement of machinery
and equipment;
c.   providing its clients and their projects with technical assistance;
d.   undertaking other operations approved by the Board of Directors
of (the financial intermediary), with the Central Bank's
consent.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
The project unit shall not make short-term loans for operating capital
or other purposes. Said loan may be handled appropriately by another depart-
ments of the financial intermediary.
4.   The financing to be granted by the Department shall be exclusively
for specific projects and each application shall be considered on its merits.
The financing shall be essentially for the procurement of fixed assets, but
the Department may also finance pre-investment studies and training or tech-
nical assistance contracts that will help to develop or assist the projects
to be financed or already being financed.
5.   The projects unit shall continuously monitor trends in the private
industrial sector and for this purpose shall work with FODEIN, specialized
agencies, research institutes, and other financial institutions in the
promotion of new enterprises or the expansion of existing ones.
III. Financial policies
6.   The project unit shall reach its decisions on financing solely on the
basis of sound financial criteria and shall provide assistance only for
projects that are found to be economically and financially sound and tech-
nically feasible.
7.   The project unit shall endeavor to diversify its lending portfolio
in order to keep risk at a reasonable level. In the case of large-scale
projects that exceed the Unit's financing capacity, it shall endeavor
to find other institutions, local, foreign or international, with which
to co-finance the project in question.
8.   The unit shall do all it can to maintain its revenues at a level
that will at leat enable it to cover its costs and, in keeping with sound
business principle, to establish reserves sufficient to cover its portfolio
risks and protect itself against decapitalization. The unit shall not
assume exchange risks in the event of using foreign resources. While
keeping within the limits established by the Central Bank, it shall set
interest rates, commissions and other charges on its loans and services at
a level enabling it to achieve an adequate revenue level as indicated above.
9.   As a general rule, the unit shall not incur debts in excess of seven (7)
times its permanent resources, including unallocated reserves to cover losses
of all types. Its indebtedness shall be deemed to include guarantees, con-
tingent liabilities and borrowerd funds which have been or are in the
process of disbursement.
10. The unit shall keep separate accounts to reflect its operations in
accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles and
standards. It shall arrange for its accounts to be audited every year
by independent auditors.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
11. In reaching decisions on amounts of financial assistance, the unit
shall take account of all financial requirements of the project and the
financial position of the borrowing company. Its lending and guarantees for a
specific new project may not exceed 65% of the total cost, or 80% of the total
cost in the case of financing for smaller companies. In the case of expansion
projects, its financing may exceed this proportion providing the borrower does
not have a debt/equity ratio greater than 2:1.
IV. Other provisions
12. The unit, in accordance with accepted practices, shall require its
borrowers to post and maintain adequate guarantees, to keep proper records
and accounting systems, and to provide it with all the technical and
accounting information it may require. The unit shall reserve the right,
using either its own staff or other personel assigned for the purpose, to
inspect the companies it finances and their project sites in order to check
on operations, accounts and any other matters as necessary. It shall treat
all information obtained from borrowers as confidential.
13. The unit shall endeavor to develop and maintain a balanced team of
professionals qualified to perform their functions effectively, especially
in: (a) appraising the projects submitted to them; (b) helping borrowers
to prepare their projects; (c) supervising the execution of these projects.
The unit shall pay special attention to the ongoing training of its staff at
all appropriate levels.
14. Any proposal to revise this Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures shall be submitted to the Board of Directors of the participating
bank for approval. Any change shall require the consent of the Central
Bank.



COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 1: INDUSTRIAL INVESTHMENT REQUIREMENTS (1977-82)
(in millions of constant e of 1976)
1977                    1978                      1979                     1980                     1981                     1982
A      B       C        A       B       C         A      B       C        A       B       C         A       B      C         A       B      C
Food, beverages                   568      70    638       603      72    675       643      75    718       677      81    758       711      84    795        750     89    839
Textiles, leather                 161      27    188       168      30    198       173      33    206       180      34    214       197      36    233        209     39    248
Wood                               73      19     92        79      21    100        85      23    108        91      24    115        101     26    127        107      28    135
Paper, printing                    59      19     78        65      21     86        71      23     94        77      26    103        84      28    112         94     30    124
Chamicals                         197      20    217       217      23    240       232      26    258       253      28    281       272      31    303        300      33    333
Non-metallic minerals             148      19    167       162      21    183       176      23    199       192      26    218       213      29    242        237      32    269
Metals, machinery                 115      40    155       125      45    170       137      49    186       151      54    205        171     61    232        190      68    258
others                              6      33     39         5      30     35         6      29     35         7      30      37         8     30      38        10      32     42
TOTAL      1.327    247  1,574    1.424    263  1.687    1.523    281  1.804    1.628    303  1.931    1.757    325  2082    1897    351  2.248
(in US$ million)               (154.3) (28.7) (183.0) (165.6) (30.6) (196.2) (177.1) (32.7)(209.8)  (189.3) (35.2)(224.5)  (204.3) (37.8)(242.1)  (220.6) (40.8)(261.4)
A - Increase in Fixed Assets
B - Increase in Working Capital
C - Total Investment Requirements
Total Annual Average  1978 - 1982 - US$ 226.8 million
Source: Appraisal Mission estimates based on UNIDO's Statistical
Review (COS/721007) November 1976, and Central Bank statistics.
LCPID
February, 1978



COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 2: INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT AND FINANCING IN 1976
(In millions of ¢)
increase in      Increase in           Total                   Domestic       Foreign
fixed assets    working capital    investments    %            component    component
A. Investment
Land                              65                                   65          4.3          65              -
Buildings                        285                 -                285         18.9         185            100
Equipment                        752                 -                752         49.8          77            675
Vehicles                          65                 -                 65          4.3           -              65
Other fixed assets               130                 -                130          8.6          75              55
Working capital increase          -                 213               213         14.1          86             127
TOTAL                      1,297               213              1,510        100.0         488          1,022
(100%0)                   (32%)         (68%)
B. Financing
B.1 Loans
State banks                   215                33                248         16.4
State financieras              70                38                108          7.1
Private banks                  12                 2                 14          0.9
Private financieras            57                33                 90          6.0
Sub-total                     354               106                460         30.4
B.2 Own Funds
Depreciation                  765                -                 765         50.7
Profits & non-equity          178               107                285         18.9
Sub-total                     943               107             1,050          69.5
TOTAL                    1,297                213             1,510        100.0
Source:  Appraisal Mission estimates, based on UNIDO "Analisis de la Estructura del Financiamiento del
Sector Industrial, July 1975 and Central Bank Statistics.
LCPID
February, 1978



COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 3:    PROJECTED FODEIN OPERATIONS:  APPROVALS AND DISBURSEMENTS(1979-83)
(in US$ million)
1979            1980             1981             1982             1983
Approvals                             10.0             12.0             15.0             18.0             20.0
Commitments-                           9.0             10.8             13.5             16.2             18.0
Disbursements 2/                       3.6              8.32            12.4             15.32            17.94
of which IBRD:
Disbursements in the year              2.75             6.50             4.90             0.85
Cumulative Disbursements               2.75             9.25            14.15            15.00
1/ Assuming that 90% of Approvals will be committed during the same year and 10% during the following year.
2/ Assuming disbursements of 40% of commitments during the same year, 40% the following year and 30% the
next following year.  Total disbursements including those of financial intermediaries will be higher by               n
one-seventh.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates.
LCPID
February, 1978



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
T-4 (a)
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 4(a): FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(In US$)
1979          1980           1981        1982          1983
A.   INCOME STATEMENT
1.   Income          F                 - i     61fl. 1, 4,                 -           - f'
2.   Financial Costs              I 11
3.   Spread (1-2)               1- .-a-,-      6l'-I 13     1.4-.  F
4.   Direct Costs                .          -0. .45            -;!  Gc
5.   Indirect Costs                                 ,-'i_ii    .          11i_ . 
6.   Operating Profits           :r    L       4;
7.   Provisions            .-e                                               - Ai4
8.   Depreciation                lIiP I         .-'l 1_,i-' rl  7  I 11
9.   Gross Profits                        1 4    1 .4
10.  Taxes                                            -
11.  Net Profits                     4D
B.   BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
1.   Cash                      -'Fl, A Cn  i    5Q00. c n      1-jn           F , -L- -
2.   Reserve Requirements         Q. Qii Ft. HI                     0I.  I, Ii, -i            
3.   Loan Portfolio (net)    _2, I, -' 'i. ,                  4 i     , 
4.   Interest Receivable          :l 0           'I l_ii       Qi, 0          , 0. Qi oQ
5.   Net Fixed Assets            401 IFIOO                   '- 3_l,   0 CI  -l               LI; -,
6.   Other Assets                 l, 0lf1fl       ll I        0. fliQ      ,,. I'         jI ill_i
7.   Total Assets             :477.      i     .4. Ct,,   !02:34 . 7'n 30i=i. ,7,  413     :E: - 5
LIABILITIES
1.   Short-tern Deposits            1--,1        0. Cl  001-. Cr 0 CI         1,   !       Q         A
2.   Long-tern Deposits         0A. 1 11l, 0. _l 0:AA.i                       A  !         ,I  l
3.   Existing Liabilities         0. Ci          l. Co:        3. ci:'       ,              i
4.   Liab. to be contracted1i55       5-  -451 0E. 069    1464. 77:            Ii -      --  :-2
5.   Other Liabilities            0. l:ll -l. Cl  I A-l. O:i              Cl CH A           QI
6.   Total Liabilities      -l1 1559. 1 56  - 4 , 06       1 4 I 464. 7    -     !-- 
EQUITY lb
7.   Permanent resources    1 5CiCI  . oQ ,  1 50ICICi. C0 A   i:i-i   2 IF             J  i_i,
8.   Retnifted Earnings          36. 456      257. 129      E:9. 7      1592. v'I15,   2  1. I 925
9.   Total Equity            150:36. 456    5257 . 1 291 1         D: 1  _ 459. 1?1  :36_i  9 _ 5
10.  Total. Liabilities and   _4 7, .::1r,r  1 749. 0Ci -'0 2D4. 7'i_ :30547.  :'  4053:3. -15
Equity
a! In years 1979 and 1980, the CB will retain certain amounts of total paid-in capital
which appear as negative liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
b/ Since FODEIN does not have legal personality, it may not have its own capital but rather
permanent resources assigned to it by CBCR.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates.
LCPID, February 1978.



l     r
COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 4(b): FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - BASIC DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS
(in US$ thousands)
1979         1980         1981          1982            1983
Disbursements (gross)                           --i-ll        - .-ll      1 '40t          5320.         l,7940.
Collections on Existing Loan Portfolio         4-00.             11             ,             1-U.           1.
Collections on New Disbursements                 :t,l.       1:37_.        3cI2_:.       526 t               :3-
Annual Provision on Existing Loan Portfolio         lIl          3.                           U l-l.         l-l.
Depreciation of Fixed Assets                       1             fl0.        0*7*.          :-0.
Purchases of Fixed Assets'                        '-.l-.        50.           50.           50.             ,l,.
Cash                                              0-l U.      500..          l5l 0                          --
Other Assets                                       II.           CIf.          IJ*.          1_1.             0.
Repayinent of Existing Liabilities                 lI.           U.            lI.            l               I.
Paid-in Capital Increases                           U.           0 5  l.   49 iI CUU.      C.5 fl.           U1.
Other Liabilities                                   II.         LI.            i.             I.              H.
Other Income                                     I. 75        9.7          11.             1:.'              i
Average Yield on Average Outstanding         ,i-I. 0L9 0    0. 0 i@5      0     ''0. i-3-95            -IL
Loan Portfolio
RTEIOS
Total income as % of ATA                            -         8.5            8.6            8.7           8.7
Gross spread as % of ATA                            -         8.6            8.6            7.1           6.6
Administrative costs as % of ATA                    -         2.0            1.2            0.8           0.7
Gross profit as % of ATA                            -         6.2            7.3            6.1           5.8
Gross profit as % of Average Portfolio              -         6.6            7.6            6.3      .    6.0
NOTE:  InitiAlly, FODETIN will have no liabilities.
Source:  Appraisal mission eitimates.
LCPID
February, 1978                                                                                                =



COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 5: FODEIN: PR)JECTED USES AND SOURCES OF FUNDS
(in US$ thousands)
1979                   1980                    1981                   1982                     1983
SOURCES
Net Profits                                36.5                   220.7                   562.8                  979.1                 1,252.4
Provisions                                  2.7                     6.2                     9.3                    11.5                    13.5
Depreciation                               10.0                    20.0                    27.0                   30.0                     32.0
1-I
New Loans                                   0.0                     0.0                     0.0                     0.0                7,537.3
Portfolio recovery                        360.0                 1,372.0                3,028.0                 5,216.0                 8,003.0
2/
Net Paid-in capital                     3,440.8                 7,051.0                8,972.9                 9,283.4                 1,251.8
Total Sources        3,850.0                 8,670.0                12,600.0                15,520.0                18,090.0
USES
Disbursements                           3,600.0                8,320.0                12,400.0                15,320.0                17,940.0
Increase in Fixed Assets                   50.0                    50.0                    50.0                   50.0                     50.0
Sub-total            3,650.0                 8,370.0                12,450.0                15,370.0                17,990.0
Total Sources less Uses                   200.0                   300.0                   150.0                  150.0                    100.0
Increase in Cash                          200.0                   300.0                   150.0                  150.0                    100.0
Total Cash Level                          200.0                   500.0                   650.0                  800.0                    900.0
1/ Net of repayments
2/ Net of retentions, which amount to USS 143091 56 ir. 1979, US$ 13,758,069 in 1980,
US$ 9,685,222 in 1981 and US$ 1,251,885 in 1982.
Source:  Appraisal mission estimates.
LCPID
February, 1978
a  4



ANNEX 4
- 49 -                      T-6
COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 6: A.  FODEIN   EXPECTED SUBPROJECTS:  SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION
(in US$-million)
Subprojects'                IBRD
Subsector                           total costsl/   %           Financing
Food, beverages                       23.5          48.0             7.2
Textiles, leather                      6.5          13.2            2.0
Wood products                          2.8           5.7             0.8
Paper, printing                        1.9           3.8             0.6
Chemicals                              6.2          12.6            1.9
Non- metallic minerals                 4.3           8.8             1.3
Metals, machinery                      3.7           7.5             1.1
Others                                 0.2          0.4             0.1
TOTAL                             49.0         100.0            15.0
B.  Expected Employment Impact of FODEIN Subprojects
(Amounts in US$ million, in 1975 prices)
Subprojects   Total Assets    Employment
Subsector               Total Cost    per job          Generation       %
Food, beverages             23.5         16,200            1,450        35.3
Textiles, leather            6.5         12,168              534       13.0
Wood products                2.8          5,578              502        12.2
Paper, printing              1.9         15,037              126         3.1
Chemicals                    6.2          9,611              645        15.8
Metals, machinery            3.7         14,761              251         6.1
Non-metallic minerals, and
others                       4.5          7,534              597       14.5
TOTAL                   49.0         11,890            4,105      100.0
Source:  Appraisal mission estimates based on UNIDO statistical review
(COS/72/007, November 1976).
1/ Since FODEIN would finance mainly fixed assets, estimates of the total costs
of subprojects are based on the sectoral distribution of fixed assets.
LCPID
February, 1978.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
T- 7
COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 7: FODEIN:  EXPECTED SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS
(Amounts in US$ thousands)
Range       No.                      Average      Total                IBRD
(Amount)   Projects         %        Amount       Amount       %      Amount       %
10-40          60           26.2          25       1,500        5          750      5
40-80          60           26.2          50       3,000       10       1,500      10
80-200         63           27.5         100       6,300       21       3,100      21
200-320         24           10.5         250      6,000       20        3,000      20
320-560         12            5.2         375      4,500       15        2,200      15
560-800          5            2.2         600       3,000      10        1,500      10
800-1000         3            1.3         900       2,700        9       1,350       9
1000-2000         2            0.9       1,500       3,000      10        1,500      10
TOTAL     229          100.0         131      30,000      1.00      14,900    100
Source: Appraisal mission estimates, based on UNIDO statistical review (COS/721007)
of November 1976.
LCPID
February, 1978.



COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 8:   ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
(in percentages)
d/                  el
a/                  a/                    b/                           Adjusted Value        Estimated
Value Added       Current Assets      Value Added            c/                Added to            Economic
to                 to                 to             Effective             Adjusted            Rate of
Subsector                                 Fixed Assets        Total Assets       Total Assets       Protection          Total Assets        Return(ERR)
Food, beverages                               45.6                 42                 26                 145                 15.7                9.2
Textiles, leather                             42.9                 48                 22                 120                 14.3                7.1
Wood products                                  77.9                37                  49                 55                 45.7               44.6
Paper, printing                                66.6                62                 25                  39                 25.7               22.2
Chemicals                                      56.0                22                 44                  70                37.1                35.3
Non-metallic minerals                          28.1                31                  19                 60                 17.1               11.2
Metals, machinery                              62.0                56                  32                 70                 27.1               23.9
Others                                         73.0                55                 34                 150                 19.4               14.3
TOTAL                49.0                59.0                28.5               95                 20.9                16.3
a/ Appraisal mission estimated based on UNIDO statistical review (Estudio Reifaldi COS/72/007), November 1976.
bh Estimated from the first two columns.
c/ SIECA estimates, SIECA - Brookings Institute study on CACM, 1977.
d/Adjusting Value Added by Effective Protection rates - - dividing value added by (effective protection + 100)/100 - -
and adjusting Total Assets by an average nominal tariff of 30% for industrial assets - - multiplying total assets by 0.7.
e/ Estimated by    assuming an average project life of 10 years and constant flow of benefits.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates.
LCPID
February, 1978.
x



-52-                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
- 52 -                                T-9
COSTA RICA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 9: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE PROPOSED LOAN
Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                    By Quarter       Cumulative
(US$o0O)
FY1979
To:  September 30, 1978                            -
December 31, 1978                            10/a                lo
March 31, 1979                               40/a                50
June 30, 1979                               300                 350
FY19 80
To:  September 30, 1979                        1,000               1,350
December 31, 1979                         1,400               2,750
March 31, 1980                            1,500               4,250
June 30, 1980                             1,500               5,750
FY1981
To:  September 30, 1980                        1,700               7,450
December 31, 1980                         1,800               9,250
March 31, 1981 /b                         1,500              10,750
June 30, 1981                             1,500              12,250
FY1982
To:  September 30, 1981                        1,000              13,250
December 31, 1981                           900              14,150
March 31, 1982                              600              14,750
June 30, 1982                               250              15,000
a/ Technical assistance only.
b/ December 31, 1980 is the final date for submission of subprojects to the Bank.
LCPID
February, 1978



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   "Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1978-82, Sector Industrial" (Segunda
Version), OFIPLAN, May 1977.
2.   "Analisis de la Estructura del Financiamiento del Sector
Industrial" (Documento Preliminar), MEIC-UNIDO, July 1975.
3.   "Destino del Credito Industrial en Costa Rica," UNIDO, February 1977.
4.   "Estadisticas de una Muestra del Sector Industrial (Estudio del
Anexo IV de Reifaldi)," UNIDO (Cos/72/007), November 1976.
5.   B. Decaux:  "The Industrial Sector in Costa Rica," consultant's
report, June 7, 1977.
6.   Preliminary Report on the Formation of Industrial Credit Company,
CODESA, February 1978.
7.   Monthly publication of the Auditoria General de Bancos,
December 1976.
8.   OAS, Legal and Economic Feasibility Study of Bolsa Nacional de
Valores, S.A., San Jose, April 1975.
9.   Various Regulations of the Central Bank of Costa Rica.
10.   "Preliminary Observations on a Need for an Institution for SSE,"
UNIDO, 1974.
11.   "OFIPLAN, Plan Operativo, 1975, Artesania y Pequena Industria."
12.   Banking Laws.
13.   Draft Policy Statement for CODESA's Banking Subsidiary.
14.   Reports of Financial Institutions, as follows:
(a)  CODESA Audit Report, September 30, 1977.
(b)  Banco Popular, Memoria, 1969-74.
(c)  Banco de Credito Agricola de Cartago, Anuario Estadistico, 1975.
(d)  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, Memoria, 1973.
(e)  Banco de Costa Rica, Credit Statistics and Centenario.
(f)  Banco Anglo-Costarricense, Memoria, 1975.
15.   Tables:  (a)  Capital Labor Ratios
(b) Industrial Fixed Assets
(c) Purchases of Fixed Assets
(d) Estimated Depreciation of Industrial Fixed Assets.
-JPID
^iay, 1978






t      c  o       t/    |                        g            g C     P A  N A  M  A                     , 
I              .,   12              e    I,                                                      }     <,.
K                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci
414
(I
L'     '
X                              t;  0  ::X ~~~~~ ~~0g :-:14 i:
~~   / 1 ~ ~ '                                                                                         -   D  .; -   fft
C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
i '  ..................-. .. .
-I,~~~~~~~~~~~~6
4x                           <
B r ' \~ -f _ 
i   h         ~~~    S                                                    §~



