Document of
FIL E; -COPY rIThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2346-GCR
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF COSTA RICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF QOSTA RICA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 30, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        Costa Rica colon ¢
08.6               -        US$1.00
¢1                 -        US$0.12
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAAFIID          Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for
Industrial Development
CABEI            Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM             Central American Common Market
CAT              Tax Credit Certificate
CBCR             Central Bank of Costa Rica
CET              Common External Tariff
CIEX             Certificate for Export Increases
CODESA           Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo (Costa Rican
Development Corporation)
COFISA           Corporacion Costarricense de Financiamiento
Industrial S.A. (Costa Rican Industrial Finance
Corporation)
FODEIN           Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial (Industrial
Development Fund)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
MEIC             Ministry of Economy, Industry and Commerce
OFIPLAN          Oficina de Planificacion Nacional y Politica
Economica (Office of National Planning and
Economic Policy)
SCI              Sociedad de Credito Industrial (Industrial Credit
Company)
UNIDO            United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Central Bank of Costa Rica
Guarantor:                  Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:                    IUS$15.0 million equivalent
Project Executing           Fund for Industrial Development (FODEIN) of the
Agency:                   Central Bank in its own right and through financial
intermediaries.
Lending Terms:              17 years, including 4 years of grace at an
interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:            FODEIN would lend to financial intermediaries in
local currency at 8 percent interest for subloans
to smaller enterprises, and 9 percent for subloans
to others; financial intermediaries would lend to
subborrowers at 12 percent interest with repayment
terms of 2-15 years including up to 3 years of grace.
Project Description:        The project's principal objective is to build an
institutional capacity to select, appraise and super-
vise efficient export and import substitution projects.
Medium and long term credit, which is in short supply,
would be made available to financial intermediaries
through FODEIN to finance fixed assets, permanent
working capital and preinvestment studies. Financial
intermediaries would receive incentives to lend to
smaller enterprises for which FODEIN would also
furnish a guarantee facility. The project faces
no special risks, although close initial supervision
may be required since the institutional arrangements
for project administration are new.
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions
Component                Local     Foreign      Total
Industrial Credit        15.6        33.3        48.9
Technical Assistance       *          0.1         0.1
15.6       33.4         49.0
*  Under US$0.1 million.
This document has a restricted ,distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofllcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Sources of Financing:
US$ Millions
Bank Loan                         15.0
Central Bank                      15.0
Intermediaries                    4.3
Subborrowers                     14.7
49.0
Disbursements:
Bank FY
1979       1980       1981      1982
Annual         0.4          5.4        6.5       2.7
Cumulative    0.4           5.8       12.3      15.0
Staff Appraisal Report:    2029-CR of May 25, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO, THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE CENTRAL BANK OF COSTA RICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FCIR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Central Bank of' Costa Rica with the guarantee of the Republic
of Costa Rica for the equivralent of US$15 million for an Industrial Credit
Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including a grace period
of 4 years, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. It would be relent
through financial intermediLaries to the final beneficiaries at 12 percent
interest per annum with repayment terms of 2-15 years including up to 3
years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica"
(No. 1666-CR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 11, 1977.
This President's Report includes information on the economy obtained subse-
quent to the circulation of that report by a recent mission. While a coalition
of opposition parties won the February 1978 presidential elections, no substan-
tial change in the direction of social and economic policies is expected.
Annex I summarizes the main economic and social indicators.
3.        Costa Rica provides an example among developing countries of how
high per capita income growth may be achieved without an undue concentration
of development benefits in, the upper income groups. A high level of invest-
ment and rapid export growrth allowed real output to grow at about 5.9 percent
yearly between 1960 and 1976, while family planning and rising educational and
income levels contributed to a sharp decline in the population growth rate.
The fast growth of output facilitated the absorption of the rapidly growing
labor force and the unemployment rate has remained at about 7 percent during
the last fifteen years. Rteal output per capita grew at 2.6 percent per year
during 1960-76 and per capita GNP in 1976 reached US$1,040 (World Bank Atlas).
4.        Agriculture continues to be an important sector of the economy,
generating about 20 percent of GDP and accounting for about 36 percent of total
employment. Agricultural output growth has been among the highest in Latin
America in recent years, especially as a result of the production and export
expansion of bananas and beef. Four products (coffee, bananas, beef and
sugar) made up about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings in 1973-75
while 20 years earlier only two commodities - coffee and bananas - accounted
1/   Subjtantially identical Li Part I of the President's Report dated
March 1, 1978 for the Fifth Telecommunications Project.



- 2 -
for 85 percent of exports. Rapid industrial growth was made possible as a
result of the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) and the
growth of effective domestic demand that resulted from buoyant growth combined
with a relatively widespread distribution of its benefits. Industrial exports,
largely to the CACM and Panama, have grown from about 10 percent of all
merchandise exports in the early 1960s to about one-third currently.
5.        Costa Rica's economy is very open and, in spite of the significant
export diversification that has taken place in recent years, the country's
exports as well as its imports are highly concentrated. In 1971-76, exports
constituted about 30 percent of domestic production, and imports absorbed nearly
39 percent of aggregate expenditure; while two thirds of exports were in agri-
cultural commodities, over 70 percent of imports were capital and intermediate
goods. This level of openness and degree of concentration make the economy quite
vulnerable to adverse external price movements. The economy's growth has thus
been punctuated by periodic balance of payments difficulties, where the
originating impulse is most often to be found in a deterioration in the terms
of trade. Financial strains, moreover, have occasionally been pronounced as
the Government has, in these periods of difficulty, initiated countervailing
expansions of expenditure and credit. Rapid increases in exports in the past,
however, have usually facilitated swift recovery from downturns in economic
activity and, in consequence, the process of development has been fairly
sustained.
6.        Recent economic history well exemplifies these cyclical pressures.
In 1974 the rate of growth declined to 5.5 percent (from an average 7.6 percent
in 1970-73), following a sharp decline in the terms of trade and a poor agri-
cultural crop year. To maintain the level of domestic incomes, the Government
embarked upon an expansionary monetary program which, albeit underwriting a
higher than expected investment growth, added to pressures on the balance of
payments. The current account deficit rose to $270 million or the equivalent
of 17 percent of GDP, and reserves at the end of the year stood at less than
three weeks' imports. As a result, various demand control measures were
introduced, including the raising of interest rates, the raising of consump-
tion and sales taxes, and the imposition of credit restrictions for selected
categories of consumer spending. These measures facilitated an improvement
in the balance of payments in 1975, when the current deficit declined to
11.3 percent of GDP and reserves increased to the equivalent of one month
of imports. The continuing world recession continued to have a negative
impact upon export prices and demand, however, and overall economic growth
declined to 2.1 percent.
7.        In 1976 and 1977 the economy recovered from the sudden down-
turn of economic activity of 1974-75. This recovery was led by a rapid
increase in the value of the country's two major export commodities, coffee
and bananas. Real growth in the economy was estimated at 4.3 percent in 1976
and was probably about 6.3 percent in 1977. The usual indications of buoyancy
- investment levels, capacity utilization, employment rates, etc. - all dis-
played continuing improvement; the national savings rate, moreover, returned
to a more healthy level of about 17.0 percent of GDP in 1976-77 after declining



- 3 -
to about 12 percent in 1974-75. Bank staff estimate that inflation in 1977,
measured by changes in consumer prices, was probably between 8 and 10 percent
compared with 4.4 percent in 1976, but well below the high mark
of 30 percent in 1974.
8.        While Costa Rica has recovered remarkably from the downturn in
economic activity of 1974--75, certain elements emerged in 1977 which
might disturb the expansion of activity in the short term. Concomitant
with the rapid growth of exports was a very rapid growth of imports,
which expanded nearly 28 percent in current terms in 1977. Although the
current deficit in 1977, therefore, was probably somewhat higher in absolute
terms than in 1976, the country was nevertheless able substantially to
augment its reserve levels - to more than two months' equivalent of imports.
For the most part this was the result of high levels of private borrowing
and inflows of short-term capital reflecting investor confidence in the
economy. The Government attempted, with mixed success, to sterilize the
large money inflows (both from the record export revenues and other capital
flows) through local bond issues. Finally, at the same time as the high
export revenues boosted private domestic demand, the Government in a pre-
election year may have added to excess demand through accelerated spending.
There is, therefore, a case to be made for reducing excess demand pressures
on the economy. The newly elected Government has publicly indicated its
commitment to measures which will serve this end.
9.        The public sector has long played an important role in Costa Rica's
development process. The Government has given substantial attention in recent
years to improving basic infrastructure such as highways, feeder roads and the
development of the hydroelectric potential of the country. Substantial
emphasis has been placed on the opening up of new areas for settlement and
cultivation. At the same time, the Government has provided a wide range
of public services. More than 45 percent of all expenditures of the Central
Government have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and other
social sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important factor
in reducing mortality rates from 11 per thousand in the early 1960s to the
present 6 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to 69 years. At
the same time, general development, higher educational standards and active
birth control related programs reduced birth rates so that the natural rate of
population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to 2.6 percent by 1975.
Moreover, by spending almost one-third of its budget on education, the Central
Government has been able to improve coverage and quality of primary and
secondary schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum -- the adult literacy rate
was 89 percent in 1973 -- and provide a good quality university education.
Costa Rica has no standing army and the share of Central Government expendi-
tures devoted to security - about 2 percent - has long been one of the lowest
in the world.
10.       Costa Rica's income distribution is one of the most equitable
in Latin America, and the principal beneficiary of the development process in
the last decade has been the middle class. An initiative enacted by the
Government in 1975 is the "Family Welfare Program" which is designed to
increase the living standlards of the poorest rural families representing about



- 4 -
one fourth of the population. The program includes, among others, rural
health, sanitation, housing and education projects, as well as nutrition
programs for pre-school and school-age children and is financed primarily
through a recently passed payroll tax and an increase in the sales tax rate.
On the whole, the program's impact on the distribution of income and on rural
living levels is significant: currently, roughly 1.5 percent of GDP is being
redistributed to the poorest 20 percent of the population.
11.       The policy of maintaining high levels of public services and invest-
ment has from time to time been accompanied by serious financial difficulties.
The tax system is income inelastic, pricing policies by some state enterprises,
such as the water supply agency, have been inadequate to generate sufficient
revenues and several new autonomous agencies have become increasingly reliant
on the Central Government for finance. Large budget deficits have emerged,
which were then periodically reduced through the introduction of new taxes and
increases in tax rates. Thus, in 1974, when several new taxes were introduced,
the improvement in public sector finances was reflected in a public sector
deficit equivalent to only 1.4 percent of GDP down from close to 5 percent
during 1971-73. Since then, expenditure growth has outstripped revenue growth
and the public sector deficit during 1975 and 1976 was again equal to about
5 percent of GDP. It is estimated that the public sector deficit remained
at about 5 percent of GDP during 1977.
12.       The prospects for the Costa Rican economy in the medium term are
quite good, provided the Government stimulates export growth and follows
prudent demand management policies. This need is underscored by the expecta-
tion that the terms of trade will continuously decline over the next few
years (coffee prices, for instance, are expected to decline by some 14 percent
in 1978). Assuming that the rate of growth of imports in 1978 will return to
the average of 1970-76, that this more moderate import growth can thereafter
be maintained, and that the efforts underway to diversify and strengthen the
export sector will be felt by 1981, then the economy's rate of output growth
is expected to average 5.3 percent in 1978-85, or slightly higher than the 4.6
percent of 1973-77.
13.       Over the longer term a substantial effort towards industrialization
through export diversification would be necessary if Costa Rica is to continue
its high GDP growth rate while strengthening its balance-of-payments. Some
important steps to promote exports have been initiated. Currently exports
of non-traditional products to countries outside the Central American Common
Market are stimulated through a tax rebate scheme; marketing outlets are being
established in several countries in the Caribbean; an export and tourism
promotion line of credit (which is now almost fully disbursed) was created and
special credit facilities are accorded to production for export. Also, a sub-
stantial expansion of hotel facilities is taking place to promote the tourism
industry. The country has made good progress in expanding existing and develop-
ing new export lines; despite depressed world market conditions, nontraditional
exports grew at 7 percent yearly in real terms between 1974 and 1976.



-5-
14.       Assuming that the efforts to diversify and strengthen the export
sector over the longer term are successful, Costa Rica will remain credit-
worthy for the foreign borrowing required for continued satisfactory develop-
ment. The public debt service ratio has fluctuated around 10 percent during
the last several years and is estimated at 10 percent for 1977. Assuming a
gradual decline in coffee prices to more normal levels by 1980, but a parallel
and successful implementation of export promotion policies, the public debt
service ratio is projected to rise to a still manageable level, averaging 15
percent, in the early 1980's.
External Assistance
15.       As of December 31, 1977, it is esttmated that the Bank Group held
19.3 percent of the US$1,208.4 million external public debt outstanding--
including undisbursed--repayable in foreign currency. This share is likely to
decrease somewhat by 1980 because of an expected increase in the activity of
other external lenders. The Bank Group share of total public debt service in
1977 was 13.7 percent, and it is projected to decline by 1980. Of the other
major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB holds 20.9 percent of external public
debt outstanding, including undisbursed, CABEI 11.3 percent, the U.S. Govern-
ment 7.6 percent, Venezuela 2.9 percent, other bilateral lenders 5.0 percent
and private lenders 33.0 percent.
16.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of the lending by the principal
external agencies, apart from the Bank, USAID has concentrated on agriculture,
and health, the IDB on power, irrigation, health and education, and CABEI on
transport, power and urban development. These agencies are likely to continue
in the same areas in the future except that USAID is expected to be more
active in urban development and CABEI's activities in this area will be
reduced. The lending of the four principal agencies during the past 10 years
is summarized as follows:
IBRD    IDA    USAID       IDB    CABEI
---(US$ millions)-------------
Lending 1950-1965                             47.7    4.6      33.8    29.5        4.5
Lending January 1, 1966 - June 30, 1977
Transport                                56.1              7.1    23.5      92.4
Power and Telecommunications           107.0               -      71.1      27.7
Education                                 6.2              -      13.0       4.0
Health                                    -                7.6    43.1      13.9
Urban Development                         -                4.6     -        34.5
Agriculture                              30.0             34.8    38.1       3.8
Industry                                 -                 5.0    23.6       0.1
Others                                    -                3.0    10.4       2.1
Total                             247.0    4.6      95.5   252.3    183.0



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Costa Rica has received to date 22 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling $277.7 million net of cancellations. The last operation, a loan
for a Fifth Telecommunications Project amounting to US$10.6 million, was
signed on March 23, 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978, and notes on
the execution of on-going projects.
18.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with
substantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government prefers
to use for its socially oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's
past lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power,
telecommunications and highways. However, the Bank has also supported
efforts to increase and diversify exports through lending for agricultural
credit, and has helped make educational programs more consistent with
manpower objectives through a loan for secondary and vocational education.
19.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to continue to provide
some support for power, in view of the continuing need for substantial amounts
of external financing and our long-standing involvement in this sector which
gives us a special ability to foster institutional development. We are
planning, however, to increase Bank lending in other areas, particularly
agriculture, industry and rural development to provide support for productive
investment and export diversification and to provide assistance to the rural
poor. The agricultural credit loan signed June 2, 1977 is financing pre-
paration of a rural development project, which is expected to be a component
of a regional development project for the Atlantic Region, one of the poorest
areas of Costa Rica. We are also, at the Government's request, exploring the
possibility of projects in forestry and irrigation, and identification missions
in these areas will visit Costa Rica during 1978. In addition, in order to
help provide a new source of foreign exchange earnings, the Bank is considering
participation in the financing of, and in helping to mobilize additional
external resources for, the large Boruca hydroelectric project, which is
designed primarily to supply the power requirements of a proposed aluminum
complex.
20.       In our lending activities in Costa Rica, we will continue to coor-
dinate closely with IDB, USAID and CABEI not only with a view to improving the
effectiveness of lending by major external agencies at the national level, but
also to help assure that Government programs are developed in a manner
consistent with Central American priorities.
21.       IFC has made three investments in Costa Rica, two of which went to
Productos de Concreto, S.A. A portion of these investments, which total $590
thousand, has been sold and the balance repaid. A loan of $2.5 million to
Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, S.A. was approved by the Executive
Directors in March 1978. IFC is also exploring the possibility of partici-
pating in the financing of the proposed aluminum project and a secondary
mortgage finance institution.



P'ART III - THE SECTOR
A.   Structure
22.       Manufacturing industry accounts for 20 percent of GDP, 27 percent of
total exports, and employs 12 percent of the labor force. It has been the
fastest growing sector in the Costa Rican economy with an average annual
growth rate of 8.1 percent in real terms in 1972-76 and 11 percent in 1977.
23.       The production of- consumer goods, mainly food, beverages, and
tobacco for the domestic market, represent about two-thirds of industrial
value added. Intermediate goods, composed mainly of wood, leather, chemicals
and non-metallic mineral industries, constitute about 27 percent of industrial
value added, and capital goods industries, mainly assembly plants with a high
import content, about 5 percent.
24.       Most industrial ienterprises in Costa Rica are relatively small and,
with very few exceptions, are privately owned. According to the 1976 indus-
trial census, about 70 percent of the total number of 2,867 industrial
enterprises have less than 10 workers and only 10 percent have more than 50
workers. Most enterprises are located around the capital city, San Jose,
which together with other urban centers within a thirty kilometer radius,
accounts for about 90 percent of the total industrial employment in the
country.
B.   Industrial Employment
25.       Industrial employment grew at 6.5 percent p.a. in the 1972-76 period
and will continue to grow at this rate over the next four years if sectoral
growth averages at least 7.5 percent p.a. as expected (see paragraph 30 below).
This would mean an increase from the estimated 87,700 workers in 1977 to
117,400 in 1982, equivalent to one-third of existing industrial employment.
The subsectors of textiles, leather and metal products are expected to make
the greatest contribution to the generation of new employment (about 45 per-
cent of the total) with the balance divided among other industries. The
industries with a rather low direct employment impact are paper products,
chemicals and food processing; however, food processing industries have strong
backward linkages with Costa Rica's agricultural sector and thus would generate
significant employment indlirectly.
C.   Industrial Exports
26.       As stated in paragraph four above, the industrial sector has become
an important source of foreign exchange earnings over the past 12 years. Non-
traditional manufactured esxports (excluding processed coffee, sugar, and beef)
increased from US$19 million in 1965 to US$192 million in 1976, at an average
annual growth rate of 23 percent. Exports of textiles, leather, chemicals,
and metal products have been growing even more rapidly. While two-thirds of
industrial exports still go to the CACM countries, non-traditional exports to



- 8 -
countries outside the CACM have been growing rapidly, and the outlook for
continued growth is good, in particular given the opportunities available to
industries processing local raw materials, which generally have the greatest
comparative advantage, and the government incentive system described below,
which is design-d to increase such exports.
D.   Government Policies Affecting Industrial Development
27.       Since the early 1960s Costa Rica's industrial policy has been largely
determined by the regional import-substitution strategy adopted by the CACM.
The main policy instruments have been the Common External Tariff (CET) and the
Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives to Industrial Development
(CAAFIID) which provide for subsidization of the use of imported capital and
intermediate goods through import duty exemptions and tax holidays. Although
they have promoted local food processing and consumer goods industries, these
policies have also resulted in the rapid development of import based indus-
tries and production for the domestic and regional markets where there is
less competition and profits are higher, rather than for export of manufactured
goods outside the CACM. At the same time, the virtual absence of import duties
on capital goods might have made it attractive in some cases to purchase
industrial equipment which cannot be fully utilized because its capacity is
greater than required by the market. As the easiest import-substitution possi-
bilities have been exhausted, continued competition among the CACM countries to
attract investment has led to a decline in the level of efficiency of industries
being established under the current incentive system.
28.       In recent years, the limitations of the import substitution strategy
have become increasingly evident. In addition to advocating a review within
the CACM, the Government has restricted to some extent the use of fiscal in-
centives, particularly tax holidays, and it has taken measures to stimulate
exports. Since 1972, the two most important incentives designed to increase
non-traditional exports outside the CACM have been the Tax Credit Certificate
(CAT) and the Certificate for Export Increases (CIEX). Both are freely
negotiable documents which can be issued to exporters concurrently, and which
can be used for payment of any government taxes. CATS are issued in amounts
equivalent to 15 percent of exported FOB value and, because they are tax-free,
represent an equivalent incentive of 25 percent on FOB value at the average
income tax rate of 40 percent. CIEXs amount to 10 percent of the increase in
FOB value of exports over the preceding year.  Until now, CATs have been largely
responsible for the impressive increase in industrial exports. The impact of
CIEX, which became effective only in 1977, is expected to be felt this year.
29.       Although the Government has put increasing emphasis on the develop-
ment of industries based on local inputs with comparative advantages in the
world markets, this focus has not yet been translated into a fully revised set
of industrial policies, partly because the country is bound by the inter-
national character of the CACM policy, which requires agreement by all
members for any changes in the incentive legislation. The adoption of a more
outward-looking industrial sector strategy would require substantial changes
in the tariff structure and fiscal incentives.



- 9-
E.   Industrial Development Strategy
30.       Government emphaLsis on expansion of manufactured exports with high
domestic value added is reflected in the industrial sector strategy of the
recently issued National Five-Year Plan for 1978-82. The stated objectives of
the Plan for the industrial sector appear reasonable and well oriented towards
improving the sector's efficiency and employment generation capacity. They
are to: (a) help the sector to achieve a growth rate of 7.5 percent p.a.
which, while slightly below the average of 8.1 percent during 1972-77, is
quite reasonable; (b) increase manufactured exports, expecially outside the
CACM; (c) establish more selective mechanisms for providing benefits to
import-substitution industries; (d) help develop small-scale industries; and
(e) promote a more intensive use of natural resources and domestic raw
materials mainly through ithe development of agroindustries. Additionally,
the plan proposes further diversification and geographic decentralization
of industries within Costa Rica.
31.       The Plan assigns high priority to agroindustries, because of
their positive impact on value added, overall employment, and the balance
of payments through increased industrial exports and efficient import sub-
stitution. Assembly industries for durable consumer goods are also con-
sidered important because of their employment impact, although the Plan
recognizes that protection of these industries needs to be gradually
reduced to improve their efficiency.
F.   Industrial Finance
Institutions
32.       The national baLnking system consists of the Central Bank of Costa
Rica (CBCR), four nationalized commercial banks, and the Corporacion
Costarricense de Desarrollo (CODESA), a public development finance company.
33.       The Central Bank, established in 1950, is a well-staffed and
well-run organization. In addition to its responsibility for implementing
monetary and credit policies, an amendment to its organic law in 1970 permitted
CBCR to make credit available for development activities, and it has been
administering several lines of credit for productive sectors, including three
Bank-financed agricultural credit projects. Using several foreign credit
lines, it has financed equipment purchases for the industrial sector and
administered a US$42.0 million Export and Tourism Promotion line of credit,
whose resources are now almost fully disbursed.
34.       The four state commercial banks, which compete with each other for
business, provide about three-fourths of all industrial credit in Costa Rica.
They are the only banks allowed to receive demand and time deposits and
together with CODESA, they have access to CBCR's rediscounting facilities.
They are financially sound and reasonably profitable institutions.
35.       The two largest banks, Banco Nacional de Costa Rica and Banco de
Costa Rica, have separate industrial units and jointly account for 80 percent



- 10 -
of all industrial credit extended by the four state banks. The other two
state banks (Banco Anglo Costarricense and Banco Credito Agricola de Cartago)
handle industrial loans jointly with other credit operations. Of the four
banks, only the Banco de Costa Rica has professional staff capable of under-
taking appraisal of industrial projects, but even in that bank project
analysis is not given sufficient weight in the loan approval proceos.
36.       CODESA, established in 1972 as a predominantly government-owned
development finance corporation for the purpose of developing or modernizing
productive enterprises, has been mainly involved in the promotion of a few
very large enterprises. As a result, CODESA has become mainly a holding
company, devoting most of its effort to running or supervising its subsidiary
companies.
37.       Institutions outside the national banking system.  The financial
institutions outside the national banking system consist of some 30 private
financieras, which together account for about 20 percent of total industrial
lending, and four private foreign banks that provide about 3 percent of
industrial loans. The private financieras have been active in intermediating
foreign bank loans and mobilizing domestic resources through sales of their
obligations to the public. The largest and most active is Corporacion
Costarricense de Financiamiento Industrial S.A. (COFISA), which has good
management and operates efficiently, but cannot rediscount in CBCR under the
current interpretation of the banking law.
Interest Rates
38.       The lending rates of state commercial banks and CODESA vary between
8-14 percent, depending on the end-use and the source of funds. Most indus-
trial and other productive loans are made at 12 percent. With the estimated
rate of inflation of 8-10 percent in 1977, most lending transactions are there-
fore contracted at positive rates in real terms. The major exception are loans
to very small businesses (with annual sales not exceeding US$4,000 equivalent)
which, as a matter of government social policy, carry an 8 percent interest
rate. No interest is paid on current and time deposits of up to 6 months.
Savings accounts pay annually 6 percent and time deposits up to 12 months pay
9 percent interest which increases up to a maximum of 12 percent for deposits
kept over 42 months.
Outlook for Growth
39.       Based on 1976 data, total industrial investment required to achieve
the 7.5 percent growth rate for industry projected in the National Plan during
the 1978-82 period would average about US$230 million (in 1976 dollars) per
year. Of that total, annual purchases of fixed assets would amount to about
US$195 million (85 percent), and increases in working capital to about US$35
million (15 percent). The foreign exchange component of total investment
requirements would amount to about 68 percent of total investment costs.
Industrial profits, new equity and depreciation funds are expected to finance
about US$160 million (in 1976 dollars) per year in 1978-82, equivalent to 70
percent of total industrial requirements, in line with historic patterns. In
addition, about US$340 million in new industrial credit would be required, at
a rate of US$68 million per year on the average, for financing of about 30
percent of total industrial investment.



- 11 -
40.       Two major problems must be dealt with if Costa Rica is to develop
an efficient and productive industrial sector. One is the CACM system of
tariffs and industrial incentives which tend to stimulate relatively in-
efficient import substitution industries which depend to a large extent on
imported materials and add little in local value. A Bank Industrial
Integration Survey Mission visited the CACM countries in April 1978; its
report will provide a basis for reviewing these problems with the CACM.
Although Costa Rica cannot make unilateral changes, one major step that can
be taken would be to improve the project evaluation capacity of Costa Rican
financial institutions to insure that credit resources are directed toward
efficient industrial development projects.
41.       The second problem is the scarcity of medium and long-term credit.
About 80 percent of industrial credit is short-term credit and is not appro-
priate for financing industrial expansion projects. This has been responsible,
in part, for the low financial leverage of industrial enterprises whose average
debt-equity ratio is 0.4:1, and has tended to deter a higher investment level
in the sector and, in particular, has affected the development of new projects.
Previous Bank Industrial Sector Activities
42.       The Bank made two loans to finance industrial machinery and equipment
of US$2.0 million and US$3.0 million in May 1960 and August 1961, respectively.
While both loans fulfilled their objective of assisting efficient enterprises,
they were not designed to build up a permanent institutional capability for
project appraisal.
43.       The Bank has held discussions over a period of years with Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), with a view to developing
loans for industrial credit in Central America. These efforts, however, have
been without success thus far, because of failure to find a means of providing
member country guarantees for a Bank loan. While discussions with the new
administration of CABEI which took office last December will be renewed within
the next few months, the Bank is proceeding with bilateral loans (of which
this is the first) to support industrial growth in individual Central American
countries.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Costa Rica Industrial Credit
Project" No. 2029-CR dated May 25, 1978 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, May 18-19, 1978. The principal representative
for the Borrower and the Guarantor was Mr. Carlos Formoso, Director of the
Development Credit Department of the Central Bank of Costa Rica.
A.   Project Objectives
46.       The main objective of the project is to give technical and financial
support to the program for industrial development proposed in the National Plan
for 1978-82. The projecl: would help Costa Rica build up an institutional



- 12 -
capability to select and finance efficient export and import substitution
subprojects and to ensure their satisfactory execution. The project would
increase the amount of medium and long-term credit to industry, thus providing
more appropriate financing for industrial expansion than is presently avail-
able. Labor-intensive activities and industries with a comparative advantage,
normally those making use of local natural resources, are expected to be
favored as a result of the economic evaluation and appraisal process which
would be used by the financial institutions involved in the project. Special
features included in the project should also facilitate lending to smaller
enterprises.
Project Description
46.       The project would involve the establishment in CBCR of an industrial
development fund, Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial (FODEIN), which would make
medium and long-term loans for industrial subprojects through qualified inter-
mediary financial institutions. The financial intermediaries would be re-
sponsible for the appraisal and supervision of subprojects.
The project would include:
(a) Term credit for fixed assets, permanent working capital and
preinvestment studies, as well as training and other forms
of technical assistance required by subborrowers for new
industrial projects or the expansion of existing enter-
prises; and
(b) Technical assistance for FODEIN and for the staff of
participating intermediaries.
47.       Since the proposed system is being created with this project, it
is not possible to compile a detailed list of specific industrial projects
which might seek FODEIN financing; however, based on an analysis of sectoral
investment requirements, it is expected that about one-half of FODEIN's
financing would go to the food and beverage subsector, followed by textiles
and leather, and chemicals. A substantial number of the new industrial
establishments to be financed by FODEIN are likely to be processing industries
utilizing local raw materials from agriculture, which show the best prospects
for increasing export earnings. Another likely source of projects for FODEIN's
financing are labor-intensive export industries, of which clothes, footwear
and electrical products offer the best opportunities.
48.       The principal objective of the technical assistance for FODEIN
would be to help in: (a) organizing short-term training seminars for pro-
fessional staff of FODEIN and the participating intermediaries in project
appraisal; (b) developing appropriate operational manuals and guidelines;
and (c) providing on-the-job training for FODEIN staff in project appraisal
and follow up. For this, FODEIN would contract one consultant with an
economic and financial background to act as senior advisor to FODEIN's
Director, and one senior industrial engineer. Twenty-four man months of



- 13 -
technical assistance would be required at an estimated $5,000 per man/month.
The contracting of both advisors acceptable to the Bank under terms of refer-
ence approved by the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). Since the services of the consultants
may be obtained before loan signing, however, retroactive reimbursement to CBCR
would be permitted for the cost of technical assistance not to exceed US$50,000.
49.       CBCR, with the help of the economic consultant, would be responsi-
ble for arranging training seminars for the staff of FODEIN and of inter-
mediaries. Bank staff would participate in the seminars on an ad hoc basis.
The seminar program and schedule have been agreed upon, and the first seminar
would begin by March 31, 1979 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
50.       Based on estimates of the likely demand for financing, the resources
available to the participating institutions and their capacity to expand
operations, the total cost of direct investment generated by the project is
estimated at US$49.0 million of which US$34.0 or 68 percent represents foreign
costs. The proposed loan of US$15.0 million represents about 44 percent of
foreign costs and 30 percent of the total project cost. The balance of the
financing will be provided by CBCR and the subborrowers (about 30 percent each
of total project cost), and the intermediaries (about 9 percent).
51.       The initial resources of FODEIN would consist of permanent CBCR
capitalization of US$15 million and US$14.9 million of the proposed loan.
(The US$0.1 million balance of the loan would finance the consultants.)
A condition of loan effectiveness would be that CBCR approve and make avail-
able its contribution to FODEIN. It has been agreed that CBCR would also
assume the obligation for repayment of the Bank loan including interest and
commitment fees and the foreign exchange risk; all interest payments and
principal repayments on subloans would be used to increase FODEIN's permanent
resources; and CBCR would take all actions necessary to prevent any reduction
in FODEN resources which, in the opinion of the Bank, might impede the carrying
out of the project (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Administration
52.       As a condition of loan effectiveness, FODEIN would be established
in CBCR as a special fund with separate accounting, and its policies and
regulations which have been reviewed and found satisfactory, would be approved.
Those policies and regulations would not be modified without Bank agreement
(Sections 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       FODEIN would be administered by a newly created unit within CBCR.
This unit would be headed by a director selected from the senior professional
staff of CBCR. Its initial staff would consist of at least an engineer, an
economist, a financial analyst, a statistician and two secretaries. The staff
would be assisted by the consultants mentioned above. The appointment of the
director and employment of initial staff would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
54.       Subloans of over US$250,000 equivalent to be financed by FODEIN
would be approved by a Credit Committee whose composition, functions and pro-
cedures would be satisfactory to the Bank and whose establishment would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Only the approval by the Director of FODEIN's unit would be required for
smaller loans.
55.       FODEIN financing would be available to financial institutions which
meet FODEIN's eligibility criteria, and agree to follow the prescribed norms of
operation. Under the present banking law, the four state commercial banks and
CODESA could apply for FODEIN financing. Should the law or its interpretation be
changed, private financial institutions such as COFISA would be permitted to
participate.
56.       To qualify for FODEIN credit, each participating intermediary
would have to establish a separate project unit with staffing acceptable
to the CBCR, specialized in the appraisal of subprojects for term financing,
the provision of technical assistance, and the supervision of subprojects.
Each project unit would have permanent capital resources, separate accounting,
and be subject to an independent audit. In addition to a minimum mandatory
contribution to subloan financing equivalent to 1/7 of the FODEIN contribution,
intermediaries would be required to provide short-term working capital finan-
cing whenever necessary. The total debt of each unit could not exceed its
permanent resources by more than 7 to 1, the proportion which corresponds to
its mandatory minimum contribution to subloans. The declaration of eligibility
of at least two intermediaries would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Subprojects Review and Supervision
57.       The appraisal of subprojects for FODEIN financing would be carried
out by the participating intermediaries in accordance with FODEIN guidelines,
and would be reviewed by FODEIN. For small subloans of up to US$50,000 equiv-
alent, the intermediary would only be required to determine the viability of the
firm and its investment plan. In order to assist small enterprises in preparing
their loan applications, the participating intermediaries would be encouraged
to help subloan beneficiaries in locating and financing individual consultants
to prepare a simple feasibility study, whenever necessary. The outline of the
study to be used has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
58.       For subloans over US$250,000 equivalent, subproject analysis would
include calculation of the economic rate of return, and an analysis of the
expected balance of payments and employment impact. For subloans between
$50,000 and US$250,000 equivalent, only a simplified calculation of economic
efficiency would be required. For all subloans over $50,000 equivalent, the
intermediaries' appraisals would cover the technical, financial and economic
aspects of subprojects, and the financial position and capability of the
borrowing enterprise.
59.       The limit for FODEIN's financing of subprojects under the loan
without prior Bank approval would be US$250,000, except that the first two
subprojects of each intermediary, involving Bank financing, would also
require Bank approval. Under the above approval limits the Bank would



- 15 -
review a representative sample of some 20 to 25 subprojects, covering about 50
percent of the loan amount., In addition, selected subprojects below the free
limit would be reviewed on a post-approval basis by supervision missions in
the field.
Lending Terms
60.       FODEIN's financing would be for 2 to 15 years, and would include
an appropriate grace period not to exceed 3 years. All subloans would be
denominated in local currency. The funds would be loaned to financial inter-
mediaries at 9 percent, to be relent at a minimum interest rate of 12 percent.
This would give the intermediaries a margin of 3 percentage points which is
reasonable and should provide an adequate incentive for them to participate in
the project. In order, holwever, to encourage intermediaries to lend to smaller
enterprises whose equity and annual sales do not exceed US$150,000 equivalent
and US$350,000 equivalent, respectively, FODEIN would charge only 8 percent to
intermediaries on subloans to such enterprises, thus giving the intermediaries
an additional one percentage point margin on these loans.
61.       The sublending interest rate of 12 percent is the current maximum
at which national banks may lend for productive purposes, and is now positive
in real terms. In view, however, of the risk of an increase in the rate
of inflation, it has been agreed that the Bank and CBCR would review at least
annually the adequacy of the proposed relending rate, the first such review
to take place about one year after loan signature (Section 3.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
62.       FODEIN and the intermediaries would jointly finance up to 65 percent
of the total cost of new projects of larger enterprises, and up to 80 percent
in the case of smaller enterprises (as defined in paragraph 60 above). These
percentages could be exceeded in financing expansions of existing plants
provided that the debt-equiity ratio of the enterprise, including the proposed
subproject, does not exceed 2:1. FODEIN's overall financing for one project,
enterprise or corporate group would be limited to 15 percent of its permanent
resources, and FODEIN wou:Ld not lend more than US$2.0 million equivalent for
any single subproject.
Guarantee Arrangements
63.       In the case of smaller enterprises FODEIN would, in addition to
giving a higher interest dlifferential for the intermediaries, also provide a
guarantee facility since lack of sufficient security seems to be a major
obstacle to increasing bank lending to smaller industrial clients. Under this
arrangement FODEIN would, upon request of the financial intermediary, guarantee
30 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the subloan. The level of
guarantee is considered sufficient, but it will be subject to review and
possible modification with Bank concurrence, if necessary. For its guarantee,
FODEIN would charge the beneficiary (through the intermediary) a one-time fee
of 1-1/2 percent on the original subloan amount. The scheme is expected to
be self-supporting. Establishment of the guarantee arrangement in a form
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Procurement
64.       The financial intermediaries and FODEIN would review procurement
proposals to assure that all items are suitable for investment projects and
reasonably priced, and that the beneficiaries had canvassed the main sources
of supply and are purchasing from the most advantageous source. Since it
may be difficult or relatively costly to obtain quotations from several
suppliers in case of small orders, the solicitation of offers would be
expected primarily for procurement items valued above US$50,000. The two
consultants proposed would be internationally recruited.
Disbursements
65.       During the initial three years of its operations FODEIN is expected
annually to commit, on the average, about US$11.0 million equivalent and to
disburse about US$8.0 million equivalent per year. On this basis, all its
initial resources, including the proposed Bank loan, would be committed by the
end of 1980 and disbursed by June 1982.
66.       The loan proceeds would be used to cover the foreign exchange cost
of procurement for subprojects financed by FODEIN, as follows: (a) 100 percent
of the c.i.f. cost of imports, including goods purchased off-the-shelf from
domestic distributors, whenever c.i.f. prices can be established; (b) 65
percent of the total expenditures net of taxes for imported machinery and
equipment purchased locally whenever their c.i.f. prices cannot be estab-
lished; (c) 35 percent of the total cost of civil works; and (d) 100 per-
cent of the cost of technical assistance for FODEIN. The percentages in
items (b) and (c) are estimates of the foreign exchange component of local
procurement.
Benefits
67.       Using the existing system of multi-purpose state commercial banks
and possibly a new subsidiary of CODESA, the project would help build up an
institutional network of specialized units capable of evaluating industrial
projects on the basis of their financial merit, and particularly of determining
their prospective contribution to the country's development. Given the criteria
that will be applied in subproject evaluation, lending will go to efficient
industries which make a positive contribution to employment and the balance
of payments. The project will significantly increase the amount of medium-
long term credit available for industrial investments, and is expected to
provide about 12 percent of new industrial credit over the loan disburse-
ment period of 1979-82 thus making an important contribution to sectoral
growth.
68.       With a maximum loan size of US$2.0 million FODEIN could accommodate
most industrial enterprises, but most firms in Costa Rica are relatively small,
and, based also on current banking experience, it is expected that such firms
will receive the bulk of its financing. Smaller enterprises have been given
special consideration in the proposed system. A higher interest spread for the
intermediaries, the guarantee scheme, and simplified subloan appraisal procedures



- 17 -
are intended to facilitate lending to those enterprises which have difficulty
in obtaining access to banking credit. If these measures prove to be effective,
as much as one-half of FODEIN's resources, including the proposed loan, may be
used to finance subprojects costing less than US$250,000. Based on UNIDO's
1976 study of the industrial sector, and given the types of industries expected
to be financed by FODEIN, new employment directly generated by FODEIN sub-
projects should amount to about 4,100 jobs, at an average cost per job of
about US$12,100 (in 1976 prices), which is satisfactory. While this project
has not been designed especially for small-scale enterprise, it is tentatively
estimated, based on the UNIDO study, that 45 percent of the jobs will be
created at a cost below the urban poverty program threshold, which for Costa
Rica is approximately US$10,000 (in 1976 prices).
Risks
69.       The proposed project does not involve any unusual risks; however,
because a new and untested institutional set up would be established under
the project, initial delays in subloan processing, both by the intermediaries
and FODEIN, may occur. To minimize delays, the Bank would supervise the project
very closely, and Bank staff would participate in the training program for the
staff of FODEIN and its intermediaries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Central Bank of Costa Rica
and the Bank, the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive directors separately.
71.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special conditions of
loan effectiveness are that: (i) FODEIN be established with operating policies
and regulations acceptable to the Bank, including provision for guarantee of
loans for smaller enterprises; (ii) an adequately staffed department be
established to administer FODEIN; (iii) the Central Bank make a US$15.0 million
equivalent contribution to FODEIN; (iv) the credit committee which will approve
larger FODEIN operations be established with regulations satisfactory to the
Bank; (v) at least two intermediaries be declared eligible to participate in the
project; and (vi) two consultants, acceptable to the Bank, be contracted under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank,



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Mav 30. 1Q7R



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                               Page 1 of 4 pages
COSTA RICA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                        COSTA RICA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        50.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      20.7                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           MEXICO         PANAMA         SPAIN
-------------           --          _---------- ------------  _----------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     3,40.0*   580.0*  1040.0*/A              6go.o*      830.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-yR. MILLION)             1.2        1.7        2.0  A            50.4         1.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        24.0       34.0      40.0/a              26.0        19.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         B5-o       93.0      97.0 0              52.0        85.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          47.9       41.8      31.0                43.8        39.8        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           11.6        8.1        5.8               10.2         8.7         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         68.6      62.0       37.6                68.5        41.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        61.3      66.8       69.1                62.4        64.9        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5        2.8        2.1                3.1         2.8         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.7        3.4       2.6                 3.4         3.1         1.1
URBAN                                  4.2 L      5.2/a    5.0/b                4.8         4.3         2.o
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           34.5 /     36.5       40.6               58.7        47.6        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        48.4      47.4       44.1                46.2        43.7        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                        48.5      49.3       52.4                50.1        52.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1        3.3        3.5                3.7         3.5         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.1        1.0        0.9                1.0         0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.9         ..        1.6                2.0         1.5         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      40.2      18                   55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                 3;..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           400.0 A       ..     590.0             13000.0       Soo0./a  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)          49.0         ..      36.4                45.0        38.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0         ..                                       7.0         1-1
INCOME DISTRiBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             33.0         *-      22.8/d              37.8        22.2/.
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             58.6         ..      50.67t              63.2        49.37k
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              5.7        *.        5-.4                4.2         4.1 7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13.0        ..       14.77E              10.2        13.8 
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
.______ ___________ __________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .-         *-         .                37.1        45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                0.3         1.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2oD00.0   1630.0   1450.0                 1480.0      1550.0       740. A/
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1770.0   1690.0            ..             1620.0      1420.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               ..     250.0      260.0               960.0       360.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          98.0     110.0      113.0               110.0       109.0       107.o
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       63.0       66.0 /              65.0        61.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         30.0       35.0         ..                28.0/A      31.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              6.9        4.6        3.0                9.8         7.5         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       96.0      110.0      111.0/f             104.0       105.0       131.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     21.0       28.0       32.0                22.0        41.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                             -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0       11.0       11.0                12.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      19.0      10.0       12.0 I              24.0        32.0        20.o
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 84.4 Ab              89.0                76.0        82.0 /      94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.3/A       ..        1.4 /g             2.2         1.8
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       41-0 b       *-.0                        61.0  b    74.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 55.0oA        ..      6B.B                59.0        52.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    32.0/b A     .       50.0                28.0        16.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          66.0       72.0      74.0               276.0       157.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)   .    14.0          23.0      28.0                24.0        32.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          355.0      594.0      786.o               567.0       585.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                3.1        6.4       5.2                 3.2         4.0         5.8
-----------_______--_--                                       _--- -         _- - __________  --- - ---- - -- -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Alliqi I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sany year between 1959 and 1961, fcr 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estirate between
1973 and 1975,
*  GNP per capita data sre based on World Bsnk Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
**  Spain has been selected as an objective country because it has the seme cultural tradition, it is also an open econos' with atrosg trade relations
with neighboring countries end has a high otandard of living.  Yet because of a dynsamic growth of exports of goods end services, Spain has achieved
on economic diversification and stability that would be desirable for Costa Rica.
Aj4 RICA       1960     a  1950-63;    A   1963;    /c  Open unemployment;    /d  Inside only.
1970    /A  1963-70.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /Ia  1976:    /b  1970-73;    /    pen unemployment;    /d  1971;    /e  1969-71;                  Af  1972;    a   Total.
bMIC0           1970    IA  1964-66;    /b  Inside only.
EAMAMA         197C    /A  Including residento working in Csnal Zone:    /b  Income recipients;                Ic  10 years and cver;    /d  Inside only.
SPAIN          1970    La  Employment office estimate;    /h  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
R4, August 22, 1977
DEFINITIONi OF lOCLAL INDICATORS
Laed Area (thou k2)                                                                          Populatio- Pet nursiog persor - Population divided by comber of practsiong
Total - Total surface ares comprising lasd ares sod island water.                              male aod female graduate orrse. "ceaised" or '"ertified" nures, asd
ARri.  - Most retest -estmate of ag3riulnoral  area used temporarily or perno-                 aumiliary per-onnel with training at experience
nently fur crop, pastures, cariet & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                      Population per hospital bed - Popalatios divided by nmber of hospital beds
av-ilable is public and private general sod epseialieed hospital snd
cNP per capita  (us$) - GNP per ca-pit  estimates at contest market prices,                    rehbilitntias nesters; seclude sursting homes and es-ablishsent, flo
calealated by same co-eersios method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    custodial sod preventive care.
196f; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per eaPit supPly  f salarie- (7. of requirememts( - Conpuned from eenegy
equivalest of met food sopplies available in nountry per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic.                                                                available sapplies camprime domestic production, imports less esporte, sad
Popolatio- (mid-vest milliom)   Au of July first:  if sot available, averge                    chauges i stoc-k  net supplies  exelade asiaal feed, seeds, quastities used
ef two eud-yost estimates; i 60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                         in food p-ceessiog and losses in distributiom; requi.temets were estImted
by FAO based on phyeiclogical needs for normesi aCtiVity end health cons;d-
Population dessiry  - per square kh   - Mid-year population per square kilasster               ering esoiromaertal tampert.-a, body weights, ag sod ass distributions of
(100 beetan-) of totaL area.                                                                 poprslatico, sod allowing 101. for veste at household level.
PoPulation densitv - per soutre ks  of srin. land - Computed aS aboye for                    Per spita sepPly of proteln (grasme per das) - Protein  otert wf per capit
agricultural lsnd only.                                                                       nt supply of fmod per day; net supply of foad is defined as sboye; require-
meats for all countries established by USDA Economic Research S.eryies
Vital statistics                                                                               prooide for a misimusz ailuwaste of 60 gr-a  of total protein per day, end
Crude birth rate per thoussnd average - Annual live births per tho-sand of                     20 grama of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gra sshould be *nimal
mid-year population; ten-year arithssetis averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards sre lower thie  those of 75 grasm  of total protein
and five- -est average ending in 1975 for most recent estimLte.                              and 23 grmms of animal protein as an average fsr the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per tbhosamd average - Annual deathe per thousand of aid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
population; teo-year aritihetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per .apit. proteis supply fra  aoimal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average endisg in  1975 for most recet es-i-ate                                         derived from aoimals sod pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate f/then) - Asnual deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thoussnd in age grasp 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                    years, to children in this age group; suggeeted as am indisator of
Life ecpectansy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life remining at                   mal-ntrition
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                             Education
rss reproduction race -Average som ber of live daughters a waman vill bear                   Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary seheoi - Enrslla t of s11 ages m  per-
in her sornal reproductive period if she esperiences present age-specific                    centage of primary .shool-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary edusati-o; for countries with
fur deve-iping countrie.                                                                     unioersal education, enrollment may emceed 1007 sice some pupils  ree below
PoPulation growth rate (2) - total - Compaund assual growth rates of aid-year                  or above the official school age.
poptlation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adjusted enroilmest rstio - secondary school - Compated as above; secondary
Population growth rate (1) - uthas - Computed like growth rstt of total                        education requires at least four years of approved primary isatrestion;
PoPulation; different definitions of urban areas nay affect conpar-bility of                 provides genera, votational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data a=ong countries,                                                                        of 12 to 17 ye.se of age; correapondene courses are generslly exsluded.
Urhan population (X of total) - Ratio of urban to total Populatios; different                Years of uchooling provided (first sod second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries.                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational .iatrustios nay be partially or
completely eocluded.
Axe strocture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), workig-age (15-64 years),                    ocational enrolment ( of secondary) - Vocationsl isetitutione  isclude
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of aid-year population.                       technicl, industrial or other programs vhich operate iedepeedeotis  or a
Ago dependesty ratio - Rscio of population uider 15 and 65 sod over to those                   departmeets of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 throogh 64.                                                                     Adslc literacy race (,) - Literate adults fable to read end write)  s pe-
Ecoonoic dependency ratio - Ra:is of population coder 15  nd bS5 and over to                   centage of totsl adult popolItioc aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in age gro-p of 15-64 years.
Family planning - acceptors (csulauive. thou) - Cumulative comber of acceptors               Housing
of birth-co-trol devices under auspices of national family pLanning progrm                 prsns per room  (urban) - iverage number of persona per toem  in -e-upird
since iception.                                                                              conventional dwellings in sbcan areas; dwellings exclude  o-per-ent
Family plasning - users (°/ of carried vomes) - Percentages of carried women of                structares asd oneccupied parts.
child-bea-ing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devises to 11 married                Occupied dwellings without piped water (7) - O.cspied convestional dwellings
wonen it none age group.                                                                     in urn and rural areas without inside or outside piped water f-clitirea
aspercentage of all oncopied dwellings.
Explaysent                                                                                    Actess to electricIty (/ of all dwellings) - Convention-l dwellings with
Total labor force (th...and) - Ecosomisally active persons, including armed                    electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urbin and
forces and unemployed bht excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                  rueol areas.
in various tountries are not casperable.                                                   Rsrl dwellings tenoerted no electrinity  (7) - Ctpssted as above fte  rural
Labor forte is agricultsre (7h) - Agricultural labor fence (in farming, forestry,               dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (7 of lsbor force  - tUnsployed are -ually defined as persons who                 Consumption
are able emd willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, reasained out             Radio receivers (per thou pap) - All types of receIvera for radis broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified ninimun period not exceeding one                  to general psblic per thousas.d of populatios; excludes unlicensed resolvers
omek; may not be comparable betwee   cosntries due to different defisitiona                   in coustries and is years when registration sf radio aets ass in effect;
of unemployed and so-ree of data, e.g., enploysent office statistics, saple                   data for renert years may not be comparable since  oa t sostesffe abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insrance.                                                    licensing.
Passenger cae  eer th     o         - Passenger ears cemprise maor oars se.ting
lncome distribution - Percentage of private income (both in  cash and kind)                     less than eight persons; secludes ambulances, hearss  nd ailitary
reseived by richest 57, richeSt 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 407 of hosse-                   vehicles
holds.                                                                                       lectricity (kwhlyr pee cap) - Annua1l  -om-ption of industrial, einensial
Publi  aed private eleetrisity in kille.tst hesr  pee capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of Iand owned by wealthiest 10%                    base  on production data, without allowane for Ipaes in grids hut .ao-
and poorest 107 of land owners.                                                              ing for imports and exports of eleetricity.
Reweric (g/y pe ca) -Per ..pita annu-l ess,esptiass in kilogrems
health and Nutrition                                                                            estimared from domestic produstios plus mar iaoeeta of  in}sprint.
Popelation pet physician - Popolatito divided by nu.eer of practiciog
physicians quslified from a medical school at university level.



T~~~~~~~~~~~~MT
nkTA                             TI-~~~~~~p-rof 14 w8C5s
A -ijsutm%d     m1970-    1973-    1977-
To  ACl        76   , &         lfo o 2 -= 977                           1985         12_70    21977    1L B5
RqATIONAL ACCOUNTS                        1973    19 76      19 T    19                                                      9 19 8-
GroI0NAE Domestic                              1967 - 1969 Prices & bajA7i  Rates         AveR                              As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product          855.2   1U054#O*1o.          11.7                  5      3     e       0         s s. z            97.4 _ _ _.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)    .W.7 2       17 7   9.8       33.6   -15.7  .48.6            .        .                     0.      2.6   -2.6
Gross Domestic Income           86      17         fl86'T    13453 l B.1T  5tIy   D           f7        7          1i;7               I.V  -on
Imot (ici. (SF5)                319.0    331.0   368.2        4s32.6  1469.14  608.6         1.2      6.9      14.14        37.0   33.1   32.14
Exorts       (import capacity)  257.9    277.4    306.7       364.6   391.2  536.4                    7.1 14.9               29.9    27.9   28.5
Resource Gap                   *-W!   --          -           -*r.    78   -7":                                              vr~ T *7
Consumption Expenditures        745.1    856.6   961.8    1047.7  1188.3  1484.5              4.8      5.2      4.5          86.4   80.3    79.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)  178.4     243.3   285.8       325.6   360.6  467.7          10.9      7.6       4.6          20.7    24.9    24.9
Domestic Savings                117.3    189.8   224.3        257.6   282.4  395.5          17.4      7.9        5.5         13.6   19.7    21.0
National Savings                110.3    169.2   197.7        228.0   246.1  332.7          15.3      7.7       4.8          12.8   17.5   17.7
MERCHAIIDISE TRADE                       Annual Data at Current Prlces                                                      As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                  78.6    124.3   220.9        319.9   379.0  660.1          16.5    26.7         9.5         24.8   32.0   27.0
Intermediate goods heLfuels) 122.8    184.1   335-3         408.3   593.5  171.8          14.5    22.0        14.1         38.8    40.8   48.o
Intromedia Oil,   brioants      12.3      31.5    51.1        94.o   103.0  178.1          36.8    31.4        8.3          3.9     9.4     7.3
Conesptlon  goodd            103.0    115.4   166.2        177.8   261.9  432.5           3.9    11.4       11.8         32.5   17.8   17.7
~ffol lvab, Iorta (Dif)                          rr;  TM"  Zr"7                           I 4 5    I                      0oo0.o 0o.o ioo.o-
Exports
Prkas7 prots (oel. fuels) 169.9          242.1   370.3       515.9   572.1  859.1          16.5    20.8        6.6         73.5    66.0   45.1
YIniafctund                     61.      102.4    218.3      265 ,9 437.4  1047.7          18.7    26.9       18.7         26.5    34.o   54.9
forTOWV                 (fob) -4   TIA W                    m51 7W.  :pr.  :Mi   727  TME 100. TW;  100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                  Aver  e 197-6S - 100
Export Price Index            F11.7    141.S                 27 .3    "3-0 ,o 40.S          6.3     18.4       4.8
Import Price Index            108.6    151.0   233.2        253.6   315.2  443.8          11.6    13.8         7.2
Terms of Trade Index          102.9       94.0    96.9      110.1    96.1   91.7          -3.0      4.0       -2.3
Exports Volume Index          122.7    1147.0   156.4       163.6   201.1  289.1            6.2      2.7       7.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR           Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                    199.2    231.8   2142 8       246 7    272.8  315.9          5.2       6        3.1         24 0:3   2g. 9
Industry end Mining           205.3    269.8   313.3        3112.1  1419.17  587.3         9.5       .1       7.0             0            3
Service                       450.7    562.4   63S.8        660.2   TS.9  7-7 5.:                                          52-2   53-    53
Total                          "5WIM;E            5           =       D       b5            7.      to          .         1W.5  Tw.x       Mg.
Annmal Data at Current Prices      Aa Percent of GIDP
Astual           Preliminary
PUDLIC  FTICE        1          970 VL73                     197c  V   970 V     75
(Central Government)
Current Receipts              130.9   180.0    261.9        316.3   13.2     13.7
Currslnt ExDenditures        113.7   159.8    246.7        316.2             12.9
3udgetary SviVn-ge           -;T    20-.2  07.17
Other Public Sector           15.7    28.8       47.9        77.0    1.6      2.5
Public Sector Fixted Investment 46.7    78.3    128.3       202.8    4.7      6.7
CENTRAL GOVERNHEli                                                                      DETAIL ON
TOTAL EXPENDITURSE DETAILS             Actual            Prelimnry                      PUEIC MICIO                       As Percent of Total Prelina
As otpal Expenditures       1970}19'75                1976c                      FIXED IlVESTHiT                     1970       1975       17
Sdacaion                                -Socl Sectors                                                              r7:.  
Other Social Services            14.3       13.8            13.0                       Agriculture                         1.3        1.1        2.0
Economic Services                 15.6      21.3            22.8                       Power                              20.5       20.2       24.0
Other                             39.3      32.3            31.2                       Tranuport and C.munications        38.6       45.0       41.6
Totsl Expenditures              100  0     I77                                        Other                                2.3        0.2        0.7
Total Expenditures                100 0      1 0          0
LABOR FOCE AND                                          Total Labor Force              Value Addtd per Worker at Factor Cost (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WOEI                     In Thousands          S of Total         1963-73         In    5 DolsPere    n     or  Avero e
1_       1973      193 W 73    aGuwb Rate                 193       173       13197V
Agriculture                        194.3    213.2       49.2      36.4         0.9            639      1194        54       61
Industry                            73.9    116.1      18.7       19.8        4.6           1248       2320       106      319
Services                          127.1    256.0        32.1      43.8         7.3           1949      2417       166      124
Total          3          97                 5 .3 50                           l .0          17    5        R
not applicable       - nil or negligible
not available       -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



AuntI II
pF1Fof 4 Paes
BLIAC   OP W U1T           A WXl   ASSIIA3NCE AND DET
(amounts in million  of U.S. oollars at current prices)
Actual                        Estimated           Projected
1973        1974      1275        197b          12 77 16ru                2
53MMARI RBALANCE OF PAYMNTS
Exports (incl. NP'S)                   41.7        £28.6       596.4       715.3         924.6       1232.8      2380.2
aort (ia e. NF'S)                   499.8        765.7       770.3      858. 8       1097.0       1479.2       2700.7
gu       ac (    *8) -0.9                      -237.1      -173.9      -13.5        77?4           -24b.         S
'rterest (net)                         -16.9       -27.0       -31.4       -41.7         461.3        -90.1      -224.8
r hrect Invatnent Inooae                -21.1      -14.O      -_24.2       -32.1         -25.6        -39.2       -71.1
Workers' Remittance                      --          --          --          --            --           -           2
Cu,rret Transfers (,.t)                  7.0         7.6        12.5        11.9          12.8         16.0        21.0
balance on Current Accounta           _=79          7M        -217.       -Mr          --2ES5       - -35"S.      -5y7.a
Private Direct lnvestmont                37.7       46.3         69.o        55.0         55.o          75.0       120.0
Official Capital Qrants                   5.2         6.4        11.0         4.7          --           --          --
Public MfiLT Loans
Disbursmnents                          71.2        87.1      152.2       156.0         264.5         396.6       706.1
-R"Ovyments                           -30.5       -33.4       -41.0       -39.5         -52.4         94.1        223.0
Net Dibsursemsnts                       4D.7        3f 1    11. 1   I2               21 7Ur                      -'tin
Other M1LT Loans
Disbursesnts                          47.1         70.5       128.4       115.0         113.0        115.0       165.4
a    n                                  37.3       347         40o.6       -99.5        -83.0       -111.7        134.8
Not Di3buRsE-Ttents                       9-°       3358         67.8       S1.5           30.0          3.3        30.6
Capital Transactions n.e.i.              36.4       105.4        21.1        78.4          23.8         _           __
Change in Net Resrvres                  -17.9        22.9       -20.9       -64.7         -74.34       -1.1        -38.3
GRANT AND ILAN OOMMIDMNYS                                                                                                                             A.-s1
Official Grants & Qrant-like                                                             Estimated                                                                      NEtimated
Public 14617 [~~~~~~~~~~~~ns                                      ...dZL....~~~~~97   LENT AND DEBT SEBYICE                                         19~ 2f  LLP77
bfD                                     6.2        23.5        41.0        39.0          34.5              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   134.2   419.7    534.4        643.8
IDA                                     --                     75.6        30            613                   tereet on Public Debt        7.1    23.4       27.5       39 9
IDE         --         14.7        75.6        35.0          61.3                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~epaynenta an Public Debt  20.6    41.0  39.5  52.L
Other Multilateral                      7.4        24.2        38.2        36.6          17.'                Total Public Debt Service     27.7    64.4       67.0       92 3
Governments                             5.5        34.0        25.4        1,8.6         12.9
Supplie,a                               8.2        10.3         4.6       U1.2           33.8
Financial Institutions                 46.4        66.6        70.0       1o4.0         ilo.i i8aEpr  rig   %
er3 3                            46 4        66 6        7° °       104 0         150 8               Public Debt Service             9.9    10.8        9.4       10.0
Public Loans n.e.i.                     --          --                      2.9           __                PmDizet Invest. Inc.           11.2    14.9       13.9       12.8
TotaI Public 11T lans                    74.3       173.3      2"53        77;3           320.9             Averaeg  Taew  of Pvblic Debt
Int. ame PriorYear DO&D        5.7      7.7       6.6        7.5
Estimated  Debt Outstanading on Dec. 31. 1977                             t  ma % Prior Tear LYID    16.5     13.5       9.4        9.8
wor~ld Bank                                                               l 
rlDA                                              5.1                      1.0                              IIJ5D Debt Out. & Disbursed      36.1     85.o    104.0       124iO
ID33                                             51 14 4.5                                                       am 8 Public Debt O&D        26.9    20.3       26.4       19.3
tbher Multilteral                                64.1                     10.6                                   as S Public Debt Service   14.8    13.4        15.8       13.7
p,lernasnt                                      123.2                     23.1                             IMA  Debt Out. & Disursed         4.6       5.2       5.2        5.1
ppiis                                           40.6                      5.3                                '   as S Public Debt O&D        3.4      1.2       1.0        1.0
' aosl Institutions                            235.4                     34_5 __                                     S Public Debt Service    0.1     0.1       0.1        0.1
ablic Debts n.e.i.                               --
Total Public MiLT Debts                          73.                     1.
. xclads loan  repayable in loea currency.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                               US$ Million
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower             Purpose                Bank     IDA /1  Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed                   102.9     5.5            -
800         1972   ICE                  Power                  6.5       -          0.1
827        1972   Banco Central         Agriculture            9.0       -          1.4
915        1973   Costa Rica            Education              6.2       -          4.6
1006       1974   ICE                   Telecommunications  23.5         -          5.0
1126       1975   ICE                   Power                41.0        -         16.0
1187       1976   Costa Rica            Highways             39.0        -         34.0
1410       1977   Costa Rica            Agriculture Credit  18.0         -         18.0
1491       1977   Costa Rica            Urban Transport      16.5        -         16.5
1532       1978   ICE j2                Telecommunications  10.6                   10.6
Total                                            273.2     5.5        106.2
of which has been repaid                        36.6     0.3
Total now outstanding                            236.6     5.2
Amount sold                     10.9
of which has been repaid      4.4                6.5       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   230.1     5.2
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                  Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1976    Productos de Concreto S.A.    Concrete products          0.6      -        0.6
1978    Scott Paper Co. de Costa Rica
S.A.                          Paper Products           2.5     -        2.5
Total gross commitments                                  3.1      -       3.1
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                              0.6     -        0.6
Total now held by IFC                                    2.5      -        2.5
Total undisbursed                                        2.5      -       2.5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 800  Fourth Power Project:  US$6.5 Million Loan of February 24, 1972:
Effective Date: June 2, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
This project has been completed. Final disbursement is now being
made, and the loan will be closed shortly.
Loan 827  Second Agricultural Credit Project: US$9.0 Million Loan of June 5,
1972; Effective Date: January 25, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Almost 90 percent of Bank funds have been committed as of August 30,
1977 and the balance has been tentatively earmarked for applications in
process.
Loan 915  Education Project: US$6.2 Million Loan of June 25, 1973: Effective
Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is about 20 months behind schedule -- partly because of
the delay in Congressional ratification of the Loan Agreement and partly
because of difficulties encountered in the organization and functioning of the
Project Unit. The operation of the Project Unit has improved significantly,
and a revised implementation schedule has been developed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. These should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 1006 Fourth Telecommunications Project: US$23.5 Million Loan of June 14,
1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.    -
The project is progressing satisfactorily, and no cost overruns or
delays in implementation are envisaged at this time.
Loan 1126 Fifth Power Project: US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date June 30, 1979.
Effectiveness of the loan was delayed by legal and administrative
difficulties, but the project is now in execution and progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1187 Fourth Highway l?roject: US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976;
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
There was a 12 month delay in the award and signing of the construct-
ion contract for the project highway because of appeals on the award filed by
some losing contractors. This has been resolved and construction has begun.
Loan 1410 Agricultural Credit and Development Project: US$18.0 Million Loan
of June 2, 1977: Effective Date: January 23. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is in its initial stage of execution.
Loan 1491 San Jose Urban Transport Project: US$16.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1977:  Effective Date:  March 2, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is in its initial stage of execution.
Loan 1532 Fifth Telecommunications Project: US$10.6 Million Loan of
March 23, 1978; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Borrower is now in the process of completing the conditions for
loan effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
a) Time taken to prepare project: June 19/1 - January 1978
b) Agency which prepared project: Central Bank of Costa Rica with Bank
assistance
c) First presentation to the Bank: February 1977
d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1978
e) Planned completion of negotiations: May 1978
f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Participation of Bank staff in training seminars.
Section III: Special Conditions
It has been agreed that:
a) All subloans would be expressed in local currency; principal and interest
payments on subloans would be retained by FODEIN; the Central Bank would make
all payments of principal, interest and commitment charges on the IBRD loan and
assume the foreign exchange risk; and the Central Bank would take all actions
necessary to prevent any reduction in FODEIN resources which, in the opinion of
the Bank might impede the carrying out o  L,he project (para. 51);
b) The Central Bank would, by March 31, 1979, begin to carry out a
training program for FODEIN and intermediary staff acceptable to the Bank
(para. 49);
c) FODEIN's interest rate structure would be reviewed at least
annually by the Bank and the Central Bank with the first such review to
take place about one year after loan signature (para. 61);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
d) Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be that (i) FODEIN be estab-
lished with operating policies and regulations acceptable to the Bank, and
provision be made to guarantee loans for smaller enterprises (paras. 52,
63); (ii) an adequately staffed unit be established to administer FODEIN
(para. 53); (iii) the Central Bank make a US$15.0 million equivalent contri-
bution to FODEIN (para. 51); (iv) the credit committee which will approve
larger FODEIN operations bet established with regulations satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 54); (v) at least two intermediaries be declared eligible to
participate in the project (para. 56); (vi) two consultants, acceptable to
the Bank be contracted under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 48).






IBRD 13532
w    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4U~~~~~~~~~~~EAL~A                                                  MAINCH 1978
~~  Lake~~~       L FJU     
Ii.                                                                                                                       CarIbbeQn~~~~~~~~~~~~S. .f.
RIA        Cuaa
Santo~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           ~~ ~~~~~~~ 'Ilesesao 
M......  L  IM   0   N 
COSTA RICA~~~~~~~~S  NJ0  
____  .,MX                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
Dom                 A,-     %~~~~~~Circ   Ao
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~po   o
#60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



