Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22221
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37010; SCL-3701A; SCPD-3701S)
ON
A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 34.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR
THE BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
6/26/01
Country Management Unit for Bolivia Ecuador and Peru
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of 06/26/2001)
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
3.55 Nuevos Soles = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.28 = 1.00 Nuevo Sol
FISCAL YEAR
January I -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI                 Accute Respiratory Infection
BHNP                Basic Health and Nutrition Project (Proyecto Saludy Nutrici6n Bdsica)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CHW                 Community Health Worker
CLAS                Community Managed Health Facilities (Comunidades Locales de Adnainistracio6 de Salud)
DGSP                General Directorate of Human Health (Direcci6n General de Salud de la Personas)
DISA                Regional Health Department (Direcciones de Salad)
GOP                 Government of Peru
ENSAP               National School of Public Health (Escuela Nacional de Salud P.blica)
ESSALUD             Peruvian Social Security Institute (formerly known as IPSS)
FONCODES            Social Development and Compensation Fund (Fondo Nacional de CompensacidJa y Desa U- ,13 Soiai3
HIS                 Health Information System
IADB                Inter-American Development Bank
iEC                 Information, Education and Communication
INEI                National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Inform dtica)
INFES               National Infrastructure Institute for Education and Heath
(Instituto Nacional de Infraestructura en Educacion y Salud)
INS                 National Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
KAP                 Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices
MEF                 Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOE                 Ministry of Education
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PARSALUD            Health Reform Program (Programa de Apoyo para la Reforma de Salud)
PECE                Strategic Planning for Educational Communications
(Planificaci6n Estrategica para Comunicacion Educativa)
PROMUDEH            Ministry of Women's Promotion and Human Development
PSBPT               Basic Health For All Program (Programa de Salud Basica para Todos)
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SEG                 Student Health Insurance (Seguro Escolar Gratuito)
SICI                System for Costs and Income (S)stema de Costos e Ingresos)
SMI                 Mother and Child Health Insurance (Seguro Materno Infantil)
SPP                 System for Programming and Budgeting (Sistema de Presupuesto y Programacion)
TB                  Tuberculosis
TBA                 Traditional Birth Attendants
TIPS                Tests for Improved Practices
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
UTES                Territorial Health Unit (Unidad Territorial de Salad)
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:      Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Livia Benavides



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
Basic Health and Nutrition Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     1 1
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28
Annex 8. Investments developed by the Project                                        29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.l






Project ID: P008048                                        Project Name: PE-BASIC HLTH/NUTRITION
Team Leader: Livia M. Benavides                            TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PE-BASIC HLTH/NUTRITION                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-37010;
SCL-3701A;
SCPD-3701 S
Country/Department: PERU                                                  Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi; HY - Other Population, Health &
Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/21/92                                 Effective: 06/02/94            06/02/94
Appraisal:  01/06/93                                   MTR: 06/30/97              06/16/97
Approval:  02/03/94                                 Closing: 06/30/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PERU/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners.
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Isabel M. Guerrero                         Rainer Steckhan
Sector Manager:       Charles C. Griffin                         Alain Colliu
Team Leader at ICR:   Livia M. Benavides                         Theresa P. Jones
ICR Primary Author:   Laura C. Altobelli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUNN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Objectives. The project objectives, as stated in the SAR, were to improve the health and
nutritional status in the project area, particularly among poor women and children, by: (a) increasing the
use of matemal and child health and nutrition services by extending access and improving the quality of
services; and (b) promoting better health and nutrition practices, with an emphasis on preventive care and
education.
Context. The design of the Basic Health and Nutrition Project (BHNP) needs to be assessed in the
context of the collapsed condition of the Peruvian health sector in 1992 as a result of terrorism and
hyperinflation.  At that time, Peru had as few as 2,000 health centers and posts, one-third of health posts
had no staff, and 55% of health centers lacked a physician. Three-fourths of all physicians were based in
Lima, and only one-third of Ministry of Health (MOH) personnel worked in primary care. A focus on
vertical programs for child health left other areas such as matemal health uncovered. Professional
midwives were responsible for basic matemal health care in hospitals and were rarely assigned to primary
care facilities, while nurses were not allowed to provide prenatal care or attend deliveries. Acquisition and
distribution of medicines and supplies were seriously deficient and wasteful. The result was low quality
and coverage of maternal health services, and fragmented child health services lacking in preventive
services and health education. Matemal mortality was among the highest in the Latin American region.
Infant mortality and chronic child malnutrition were also among the highest in the region, due in large part
to poor health and nutrition practices and preventable or easily treated diseases.
Project objectives were oriented to enhancing delivery of health services and education to the poor
within the prevailing service delivery and financing mechanisms of the government health sector. The
fragmentation in programming, budgetting, and implementation of vertical health programs was the cause
of duplications and inefficiency, even though this was effective for achieving some specific goals such as in
immunizations and use of oral rehydration therapy. Few project components (training, IEC, equipment,
and medicines) were planned for a limited project area of provinces in four of 24 departments (Piura,
Cajamarca, Cuzco, and one district in North Lima) selected on the basis of poverty classification and
non-inclusion of declared emergency zones. The original target population was estimated in the SAR at
1,668,000, later expanded to 2,590,433 population and 509 facilities, although 365 (87 health centers and
277 health posts) received most project interventions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of project objective.
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1:        Maternal and Child Health Care
Allocation:         $20,100,000 (43%)
This component sought to improve utilization and quality of maternal and child health care services in
the project area, with particular emphasis on prevention, by: a) training professional and community health
workers (CHW); and b) provision of medicines, supplies, equipment, and vehicles.
Component 2:        Nutrition
Allocation:         $3,200,000 (15%)
The component had two parts. The first included improvement of nutritional status of children under
- 2 -



age three in the project area through community-based growth monitoring and close follow-up of growth
problems, and distribution of micro-nutrient supplements and anti-parasite medicine. The second part
included operations research and other studies on growth nmonitoring, nutrition counselling, and replicable
cost-effective strategies for strengthening matemal and child nutrition in rural areas. Local NGOs were to
support community education in nutrition and feeding practices.
Component 3:        Tuberculosis Treatment
Allocation:         $100,000 (0.2%)
This component was aimed at solving an urgent need in Peru for improved community detection and
treatment practices for tuberculosis by: a) training CHW to detect and refer cases, and b) providing TB
testing equipment and medicines for health centers.
Component 4:  Information, Education, Communications and Training
Allocation:         $18,800,000 (38%)
This component aimed to implement: a) training for health professionals and CHW to enhance
knowledge of health and nutrition practices and improve quality of care; b) educational activities through
the use of mass media, community participation and inter-personal communication for matemal and child
health; c) community outreach and participation using strategies such as working through NGOs to educate
communities and create demand for health services, and working with community-based organizations; and
d) an impact study on the activities carried out under the project.
In order to minimize the risk of weak goveniment implementation capacity, original project components
focused on strategies for strengthening only the most critical existing MOH programs for the poor, working
with NGOs for implementation, working through the central instead of regional health offices, and
emphasizing funding for field supervision and monitoring.  The design also took into account lessons
leamed regarding: a) the need for simple project design; b) ihe importance of monitoring and evaluation; c)
effective strategies for community outreach and participation; and, d) CHl-W and health professional
training.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project design was positively affected by a significant govemment-financed expansion in the health
sector during the early project years. A poverty alleviation program in 1993 financed a social investment
fund, FONCODES, and a new health sector project, PSBPT, that eventually tripled the number of staffed
and functioning primary health facilities in areas of extreme poverty.  The continuing vertical health
program structure eventually resulted in proposals for an integrated health care model that would change
the focus from the "presenting complaint" to a focus on preventive care, health education, and reduction of
missed opportunities.
Project reorganization occurred in stages beginning in the second project year as a result of changes in
the MOH.  The operational plan for 1995 provided a new focus on integrated health care and quality of
care. Tuberculosis was expanded to a communicable diseases component that included malaria. Two
contracts effective in January, 1996, provided training in clinical matemal and child health care and in
interpersonal relations, for health personnel in 107 primary health facilities in the project areas. Due to
difficulties in collaboration with the central MOH, the project tamed its full attention to developing and
testing a new integrated health care model at the operational level that would also provide a cost-effective
package of basic services.   A reorganization and scaling-up of the complexity of project components
occurred in 1996. A new three-year strategic plan was developed, and changes were made in the
organizational and budget structure of BHjNP.
- 3 -



By 1997, the project could develop terms of reference (TOR) for mass implementation of the new
integrated health model. The competitive bidding process lasted to mid-1998 due to delays in Bank
approval of TOR and mid-bidding changes in TOR based on MOH requests to develop certain products for
the health reform. The MOH requested that Villa El Salvador in South Lima be included as a new project
area. Due to significant institutional weakness, project activities in Chota were reoriented towards
supporting community participation in service delivery.
The final project reorganization in late 1998 brought the project in line with the MOH functional
programming structure with three lines of action: health services, health promotion, and management and
financing. Overarching strategies were to strengthen health service networks and the health reform. These
actions facilitated the final transfer of the project to the MOH.  Three large contracts were awarded to
private firms by the second half of 1998 to design and implement project components on organization of
health services, management and quality improvement, and social marketing of health services. Smaller
contracts awarded to local NGOs served to design and implement community health activities with CHW,
including a community-based tuberculosis program implemented by a specialized NGO. Individual
consultants developed the nutrition component and gave support to regional IEC commissions.  Final
project components were as follow:
Revised Component 1: Health Service Provision
Revised allocation:    $22,250,000 (50%)
This revised component was to support the primary level delivery of the new integrated health care for
women and children by developing: (a) a model of integrated care procedures for child health and women's
health, including written protocols, decision manuals, specific job descriptions, performance evaluation
criteria, and in-service training based on protocols and performance evaluations; (b) instruments for
organizing the work of health facilities, including expanded clinical history forms, family instead of
individual files, filing systems for easy retrieval of clinical histories, patient triaging methods, patient flow
systems, organization of extramural community work, and updated organization and fimction manuals for
health facilities (MOF); and (c) guidelines for organization of health services networks, including a patient
referral system, and laboratory network system.   Financing was provided for rehabilitation of health
facilities, medical equipment, and supplies to improve service provision.
Revised Component 2: Health Promotion
Revised allocation:    $15,575,000 (34%)
After several stages of revisions, the component on health promotion maintained the objective of
improving health practices (one of the two project objectives), but in fact was primarily oriented to
increasing demand for health services (with social marketing) and creating an institutional capability for
information, communications, and education (IEC) at the regional level on the assumption that this would
be a strategy for sustainability of health promotion activities.  A community-level health promotion
component working with CHW was maintained, but greatly reduced in scope compared with the SAR, and
activities did not begin until 1999 under contracts with local NGOs.
Promotion of Healthy Practices. The strategy was to contribute to research and design of sustainable
integrated communications interventions in matemal and child health and nutrition. Also, the plan was to
develop IEC Commissions in five regional health departments with the capacity to conduct behavioral
diagnosis and integrated IEC planning and design, production and use of educational materials and
community communications methods, and utilize techniques for education and counseling to promote
healthy behaviors. A tuberculosis prevention sub-component was incorporated here, as was a nutrition
sub-component to improve child feeding practices with a home and community demonstration model that
involved active participation of CHW.
Social Marketing of Health Services.  The strategy was to increase demand for health services
- 4 -



through implementation of a marketing diploma training program for clinical and management staff to
provide them with capabilities for designing and implementing health facility marketing plans, utilizing
modem marketing strategies.
Community Health. NGOs were used to: a) identify existing CHW (including traditional midwives)
in communities, b) conduct community health surveys to diagnose needs and develop a local health plan, c)
implement a basic and complementary training package for CHW, and d) create a link between CHW and
health facilities.
Revised Component 3: Management and Financing
Revised allocation:    $5,785,000 (13%)
Improved management of health service networks was to be promoted by developing: a) a diploma
program for health service management training, b) capabilities for designing and implementing quality
improvement projects, c) an internal control system, and d) a model for categorizing the complexity of
health facilities. To support financing issues in health sector reform, two sub-components were: (i)
Information System for Costs and Incomes (SICI) - criteria for cost estimation of specific health services
to improve budgeting, monitoring the efficiency of expenditures, tariff-setting, income monitoring, and
other uses; and (ii)  Cost-based Programming and Budgetting (SPP) -- designed in 1997 by
USAID-funded Project 2000 to insert order into the historically fragmented budgeting process in the
Ministry of Health by creating a unique consolidated budget from all sources.  The latter component
became a joint effort between Project 2000 and BHNP.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A formal review by the Quality Assurance Group was nlot available at the time of project preparation
and appraisal. The quality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory. The objectives were consistent with
the Bank's 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), oriented to the design and implementation of
programs to improve social services, prioritizing deliveiy of services to the poor.  Infrastructure
investments, called for by the CAS, were incorporated into the project in 1996.
Two shortcomings can be identified: First, the project design did not focus in any way on the health
sector structural and managerial issues, despite the fact that sector reform was implicitly on the
government's agenda--and in fact became much more defined only one year after project initiation.
Second, the project was underdesigned in the sense that little specification was made in the SAR of how the
components would be implemented. The underdesign of the SAR created implementation problems from
the beginning, since the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was inexperienced, baseline study identification
and implementation was prolonged, and the initiation of health reform created uncertainties as to the
appropriate orientation of interventions. In both the SAR and project reorganization plans, there was
limited specification of monitoring and evaluation indicators that could serve to guide the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The project objectives as stated in the SAR were limited to improved health service provision and
health practices oriented to achieving rapid reductions in maternal and infant mortality in targeted project
areas. Achievement of the objectives is rated, overall, as satisfactory, due to the demonstrated impact of
the service provision component which comprised the greatest proportion of inputs and outputs in the last
two project years with a positive impact on the integration and quality of primary health care services. The
project overcame delays in start-up and serious instability in the health sector, and was able to implement
well during the last two years.
-5 -



Health Service Provision.  Achievement of the first sub-objective to extend access and improve
quality of services was satisfactory.  A new  model of integrated patient care and management
improvements was implemented in at least 237 primary care facilities. Changes were demonstrated by
population-based KAP and social marketing surveys conducted in January, 1999 (baseline) and December,
2000 (ex-post in both project and control areas), the period of most intense implementation of
organizational changes. Also conducted were a random sample review of clinical histories, direct
observation and exit interviews in a sample of health facilities, and analysis of MOH Health Information
System (HIS) data for each of the years 1996-2000.
KAP survey results showed increases in coverage of matemal and child health care services in
show-case intervened areas as compared with baseline and control areas.   Key variables showing
improvements were: early use of prenatal care, professional birth attendance, and coverage of integrated
well-child services, and increase in feeding a child with solid foods first during a meal.  A review of
clinical histories comparing intervention and control facilities showed significant improvements in quality
of care variables in the average number of activities in the integrated service package provided for
well-child care of children under age three, the proportion of pregnant women receiving a hemoglobin test,
and the average number of quality standards adhered to during institutional deliveries. Few differences
were found in provision of counselling in child nutrition during consultations. The proportion of TB and
malaria cases that were treated and cured had tendencies equal to or less than similar cases in control areas.
Baseline (early 1999) and ex-post (end of 2000) social marketing surveys showed improvements in client
perceptions of health services organization and infrastructure, level of privacy, comprehension of health
information received, racial or social discrimination in the provider-client relationship, and general quality
of health services.  Baseline (1999) and ex-post (2000) evaluations of personnel performance showed
major improvements in the integrality of care, skills in interviewing, physical examination, diagnosis, and
counseling, provider-client relationship, cleanliness and order, and recording of information on the clinical
history form. The diploma management training was successful in changing attitudes and motivation
toward better management techniques and quality improvement, and facilitated the acceptance of other
project interventions such as the SICI. The latter was shown in selected health facilities to have resulted in
improved management decisions for greater efficiency and productivity of health services.
Health Promotion. Achievement of the second sub-objective on promoting better health and nutrition
practices was rated unsatisfactory. On the positive side, a few important changes did occur in child
nutrition, tuberculosis, and malaria attributable to the project, possibly due to their special sub-component
status and direct central-level management by BHNP or specialized contractor. Some specific strategies
were shown to be effective in pilot areas, though their implementation was not wide-spread enough to detect
population changes. For example, the anemia prevention model was effective for increasing consumption
of iron-rich foods by children 6-23 months of age in the pilot areas in which the model was tested.
Still, there were negative results in health promotion that may outweigh the positive. For example, there
were no important differences between surveyed baseline, control, and intervened mothers in exclusive
breastfeeding practices, giving more liquids, breastmilk or solid foods to children with diarrhea or ARI,
sterilizing drinking water, or handwashing practices. The formation of IEC commissions had a level of
success in implementing health education activities in communities. However, there were no behavioral
objectives that guided the commissions' work so that each region selected topics which were often not
related to BHNP project objectives on basic matemal and child health, and their sustainability was in
question due to lack of DISA ownership of the commissions and high turnover of DISA personnel that
required continual retraining of IEC Commission members. There was no policy impact in IEC or health
promotion on the central MOH until after project closure when, in fact, health promotion was included in
the reorganization of the DGSP. Also, there was no implementation of a mass media communications
-6 -



component that was foreseen in the SAR, a strategy that has been shown to be effective in Peru. The
social marketing intervention was a BHNP innovation in the Peruvian health sector, and served to improve
provider behaviors towards clients, though did not contribute to improved health practices. The pre- and
post-social marketing surveys showed an effect of the promotional campaign intervention on use of services
by 30% of the population that had knowledge of the promotional campaign, comparing favorably to the
10% effect that would normally be expected from a communications campaign, but costing an estimated
US$9.6 for each person who attended a facility motivated by the campaign. In terms of improving equity
of access, few changes occurred in the distribution of demand by level of poverty.
Explanation of rating.   Community-based and/or mass media approaches for health education to
improve health, hygiene, and nutrition practices were not consistently incorporated into the project for
several possible reasons. Most importantly, a major conlract for implementation of the health practices
component was signed in January 1998, but dissolved in December 1999 after only one year of effective
implementation due to unsatisfactory contractor performance. Thereafter, it was difficult to reinstate a
good focus on behavioral change interventions. The component was fragmented into several discrete
activities and oriented to institutional changes such as formation of regional IEC commissions. An
effective community health promotion model was not developed by the project, nor was there use of a mass
media communications component. The social marketing contract and local NGO contracts for training
CHW were focused on increasing demand for health services and/or patient referral rather than changes in
health practices. Also, there were no offices in the MOH responsible for either community health or IEC,
representing the low priority attributed to these activities by the Borrower and the lack of project
counterpart.
The success achieved on producing behavioral changes in child feeding practices was attributed to
careful design of communication interventions by experts, based on in-depth studies of matemal knowledge
and beliefs surrounding specific desired practices. The original TOR for the Jan. 1998 health practices
contract would have provided such baseline research and design of communications interventions for a
range of health problems and behaviors, suggesting that full implementation of that strategy may have had
more positive impact on improving health practices.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Health Service Provision
A new model of integrated health care was developed by the project to improve the quality and efficacy
of health service provision, defining parameters and implementing a large number of organizational
changes, infrastructure improvements, vehicles, equipment, supplies and medicine distribution in well over
200 health facilities (see Annex 1). Clinical training was provided to over 2000 health providers in either
women's or child health and nutrition. A systematized set of 42 reference materials was produced to permit
replication of the model for intramural integrated health care in any health care facility or network (see
Annex 8).
Component 2: Health Promotion
Promotion of Healthy Practices.    Outputs included production of educational materials, some
innovative community-level health promotion activities, and training of health personnel and CHW using
the Strategic Planning for Educational Communications (PECE) Methodology. The major emphasis was
on development of IEC commissions that were forned in 15 DISAs. IEC methodologies were developed
and published, including a manual on the PECE methodology and others on how to produce and validate
educational materials for matemal and child health and communicable diseases.
Promotion of Nutrition. The most effective and sustainable output of the health promotion component
- 7-



was in nutrition, using qualitative research (a modified TIPS method) to identify specific practices in child
feeding that would have an impact on child anemia. The sub-component on nutrition promotion also
worked to strengthen: a) central MOH coordination on nutrition; b) the nutritional component of food
assistance programs through other ministries; and c) regional IEC commission work on nutrition.
Promotion in Tuberculosis. The major products were useful methodologies to apply in any CHW
program, including: a) differentiated advocacy methods to generate project support at all levels, b)
assessment of CHW learning styles, c) alternative CHW training methods, and d) transference of program
and training skills to MOH personnel for CHW program sustainability. Health personnel were trained as
trainers in tuberculosis surveillance, promotion, and referral, who in turn trained and supervised clinical
practice for CHW, with significant gains in knowledge and skills.
Social Marketing of Health Services. The major output was a social marketing training program that
prepared DISA and primary health care staff to conduct market analyses, and design and implement
marketing plans using modem marketing strategies with monitoring and evaluation indicators.
Participants received a diploma from the National School of Public Health (ENSAP) under an agreement
with BHNP.  A set of detailed training modules was developed for replication of the program.
Additionally, workshops on empathetic communications improved provider-client relationships.
Community Health. Contracted NGOs conducted census surveys in communities, identified existing
CHW (health promoters, traditional midwives, and malaria promoters), trained, and provided supplies to
CHW.  Experiences of the NGOs were systematized into a final document on the role, training and
supervision of CHWs to guide implementation of future MOH community health programs. CHW and
midwife training and reference manuals were produced.
Quechua Language and Andean Culture Training Course.  At the request of the regional health
office of Cuzco and under contract with the BHNP, the National University of San Antonio Abad of Cuzco
produced a successful distance learning program of manuals and cassette tapes for training health providers
in the Quechua language and culture. This resulted in a replicable intervention to improve provider-client
communications in the high risk population that speaks only Quechua.
Component 3:    Management and Financine
Management Diploma Training. The major output was a module-based management instructional
program for DISA/UTES and primary care personnel, implemented in collaboration with a Peruvian
university which awarded a diploma upon successful completion of the program. A shorter management
training program during 1996-97 implemented by another university prepared 88 DISA personnel.
Organization of Health Services Networks and Management Committees. At the request of the MOH
to contribute to health reform, the project organized health services into networks and implemented a
network management model with management committees and guidelines. Systems were designed for
internal control, with indicators for supervision, monitoring and evaluation, integrated health information,
accreditation, auditing, cost and income analysis, and analysis of management processes. Implementation
was on a pilot basis in parallel with the current system, since public sector norms do not permit the
flexibility required for testing new management systems.
Quality Assurance.   BHNP implemented an intemationally-validated methodology on quality
assurance to identify local management and service delivery problems, and to design and implement local
solutions to those problems. This was taught to participants enrolled in the Management Diploma Training
Program as well as directly to personnel in health facilities. About 400 quality improvement projects were
designed by participants, and 254 were implemented in 107 health facilities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
-8 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development was substantial in the last two project years. Significant
improvements were made in organizational culture and project acceptance in the central level MOH, and
significant inroads were made in providing technical assistance to key MOH technical offices in charge of
planning, provision of human health services, and statistics and information.  Project collaboration with
the National Institute of Health in strengthening the national laboratory network made a sustainable
contribution to that institution.
At the regional level, training received by regional and territorial health office personnel in health
services management and social marketing of health services contributed to developing human resource
capacities. Additionally, project assistance to organize EEC and training commissions at the regional level
created the possibility of a permanent institutional capacity in those areas. The impact of these efforts is
weakened due to the lack to date of central level MOH policy or technical offices for IEC and training or
human resources development that would support the regional level commissions.
In at least 238 government primary health facilities, significant permanent improvements were made in
the organization of health services. The new organizational model can be replicated by regional health
offices, or through passive diffusion of the model by health personnel transfers between facilities, which is
made possible by the manuals and other documents produced by the project. In infrastructure development,
institutional experience was gained in developing architectural requirements for integrated primary care
facilities, and links were made with other government agencies (INFES, FONCODES, CTARs, and
municipal governments), as well as NGOs, to fund health infrastructure improvements based on MOH
(BHNP) architectural guidelines.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of the GOP or implementing agency that affected project
implementation and outcome was the El Nifio Phenomenon in 1998, that destroyed or damaged a significant
amount of infrastructure and caused a break-out of endemic diseases, particularly in the northem part of
Peru where one of the five project sites, Piura, is located.  Malaria interventions under the project were
likely to have contributed to the reduction of cases in Piura from 12,823 in 1995 to only 2,919 in 1996, but
were annulled by the effects of the El Nifo which caused a significant increase in malaria in the region.
Project efforts to improve maternal health were reversed in upper Piura, where several matemal deaths
were reported as due to road blockages from bridges destroyed by El Nifio flooding.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government delays in deciding on the objectives and design of health reform created tension for the
project to contribute to this effort. Government reticence to commit to a health reform model was
consistent with a general political climate to maintain the status quo in government services and a freeze on
hiring public sector personnel, while implementing vertically-managed poverty alleviation and targeting
strategies such as FONCODES and PSBPT.  At the same time, the latter two programs had a very
positive effect on project implementation by placing health infrastructure and MOH staff in isolated rural
-9-



areas, greatly facilitating improvements in the coverage of services in project areas.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A highly unfavorable climate in the MOH during the first four project years was a critical factor that
delayed project advancement and nearly resulted in early project termination (see Section 7.5). A Bank
supervision mission in February of 1998 assessed the possibility of closing the project due to the barriers to
institutional coordination with the project on the part of the Borrower. A secondary factor putting the
project at risk was implementation delay created by a combination of Borrower and Bank issues. BHNP
took a long time to get off the ground due to: a) delays in baseline studies to support project design, b) a
lack of experience in the Borrower project coordinating team, c) a limited local market of qualified
technical consultants and consulting firms, d) Bank preference for outsourcing versus Borrower preference
for individual consultants, e) delays in Bank approvals of TORs, and f) non-compliance of Borrower
commitment to fully use the Project Steering Committee to provide guidance to the project team. Change in
a key MOH director (DGSP) in 1998 signaled an immediate improvement in project coordination with the
MOH. Technical assistance needs for health reform were so new that TOR development required extensive
base line studies and pilots. Also, time was a great limiting factor since there was pressure to implement.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost is currently estimated at US$44,297,000.  This is over 99%  of the
US$44,500,000 estimated in the SAR. An amendment dated October 11, 1996 changed budget categories
to rectify ambiguities identified in the original project expense components. Thus, categories as listed in
the SAR for equipment and vehicles, instructional materials, drugs and supplies, and fumiture were
combined into one category of equipment and vehicles.    The original categories of training,
communications services, and technical assistance were combined into a second category of technical
assistance.   A new category was added for civil works, while incremental operating costs remained
unchanged. At appraisal, project components were valued as: Matemal-Child Health (43%), Nutrition
(15%), Tuberculosis (0.2%), Information and Education (38%), and Project Management and Evaluation
(4.7%). Changes in components over the life of the project resulted in increasing the Service Provision and
Management components and decreasing the Health Promotion component, with the resulting distribution:
Health Services Provision (50%), Health Promotion (34%), Management and Finance (13%), and Project
Management (4%/6) (see Annex 2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. In regards to institutional sustainability, BHNP worked in a
limited geographic area, but in the last two years, design of project outputs carefully followed
developments in the policy discourse for health reform in the organization and management of health
services, thus contributing to the likelihood of political and institutional ownership.  The level of
incorporation of BHNP project staff and outputs into normative offices of the central level MOH has
resulted in the institutionalization of some of the reforrns required to integrate health programs,
programming, and budgeting processes, many of which were developed and tested under the project.
Improvements in organizational culture in govemment health services over the past several years, according
to in-depth interviews in project areas, are due in large part to interventions both early and late in the
project that were effective in creating sustained improvements in health personnel attitudes and increasing
the likelihood of their adoption of new roles and methodologies.  As to technical sustainability, several
technical documents produced by BHNP have been accepted for general use by the MOH under formal
- 10 -



Ministerial Resolutions. These are the two-volume set of clinical protocols for maternal health and child
health and the PECE methodology manual. The systematization of nearly all project outputs into
manual-type documents on CD-ROM will facilitate their disemination.   Financial sustainability is
enhanced by a follow-on Bank-funded project (PARSALUD) that will finance full expansion of health
reform measures to half the country, providing the channel for mass implementation of project outputs.
Sustainability of certain outputs of the health promotion component is more likely now that a new office of
Health Promotion has been included in the reorganization of the Directorate of Human Health in the MOH.
The sustainability of all project components may depend on decisions made by the new government
entering in July, 2001.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The integrated health service organization model and training programs developed by the project are
being adopted for expansion in the new PARSALUD project (Program to Support Health Reform) to be
financed by the Bank. The transitional status of the current government implies a risk that decisions made
at this time may not necessarily be adopted by the new government to be sworn in on July 28, 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project lending was marginally satisfactory. Given the prevailing adverse
conditions as described in Section 3, the project design ficused on supporting existing vertical health
programs to improve services to the poorest populations. Project identification was consistent with a
government focus on restoring services to the very poor, and with the Bank's CAS. An important
shortcoming was that, although the Bank could not have anticipated the specific institutional and policy
development needs for health reform, there lacked a recognition of needs for structural and/or managerial
strengthening in the project design that could have contributed to delay in the project start-up period. The
underdesign of the SAR was also a shortcoming that created delays and implementation problems.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision was rated as satisfactory, based on a two satisfactory QAG
assessments in FY 98 and FY00, which determined that the quality of the work of the supervision team and
the fact that the project was managed from the field made a significant difference in project implementation
performance.  The project had three consecutive task managers, one for preparation and two for
supervision. There was continuity in that the third was parl of the supervision team for two years before
taking over as task manager. Supervision missions were important for providing technical input into
project management at key points in time, and played a role in facilitating the incorporation of BHNP into
central level MOH policy processes.   The supervision team had a good skill mix, although some
discontinuity occurred due to scheduling problems with consultants. One shortcoming of the supervision
was lack of attention given early on to providing special training and technical assistance required by the
Borrower who lacked in experience with respect to procurement and disbursement guidelines. A second
shortcoming involved delays in Bank approval of TOR during a period in which BHNP had a large number
of TOR to process, resulting in project implementation delays. In hindsight, the Bank could have pushed
harder on the issue of MOH ownership of the project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
- 11 -



The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was fully cooperative and engaged in project preparation, bringing together qualified
personnel from regional health offices to assist with project design, rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory due lack of project
commitment through most of the project. On one level, an untimely provision of counterpart funds delayed
payment to contractors and subsequently delayed project outputs. On another level, overall policy guidance
from the Ministry of Health was weak. BHNP was implemented during a challenging decade for the health
sector and the country. The inertia of fragmented vertical health programs and traditional organizational
culture, and a work force lacking incentives, was confronted by a proposed philosophy of efficacy,
efficiency, quality, and equity for health sector reform. Civil servants felt their jobs threatened by a
potential health sector restructuring, and a new type of short-term contract created difficulties from high
turn-over rates in primary care facilities and production requirements that altered quality of care. Vertical
maternal or child health programs, the targeted poverty alleviation health program (PSBPT), and other
types of health activities including externally-funded projects existed independently of each other within a
fragmented programming and budgeting system. The organizational culture of the central MOH was
appropriately described as "feudal", with little cooperation between internal offices. The lack of leadership
over several changes of health ministers resulted in failure to mandate institutional collaboration with
externally-financed projects, with no arbiter to coordinate the different strategies developing in parallel
form.  Policy guidance to BHNP was especially weak in the areas of community health and
communications for behavioral change, contributing to the less than favorable results in those project
activities.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Ministry of Health of Peru as the project implementing agency is generally
assessed as satisfactory due to the advances made in the final two project years. Performance during the
first several years was hampered by the weaknesses in overall policy direction that exacerbated the
challenge of dealing with several large externally-financed projects. The Project Steering Committee as
required in the Loan Agreement was initially formed, but was not fully used to provide guidance to the
project team. Central MOH offices generally did not participate in supervision, monitoring and evaluation
of externally-funded projects. Inter-project coordination commissions suffered from a tendency for the
MOH to discourage them. The result was a patchwork variety of health reform and difficulties for BHNP
to achieve objectives until the final two project years.
Regional MOH offices in project areas had varying levels of implementation performance, given the
lack of policy direction or mandates from the central MOH. Some regional offices saw the value of the
project early on, and worked well in implementation, while other regions had their own agendas and chose
not to collaborate fully with BHNP until later on in the project when they could more easily identify the
benefits they would accrue.
Continuity of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) team from 1996 to the end of project contributed to
- 12 -



efficient and effective project management, as inexperience in Bank procedures in early project years was
overcome. The PCU was cited by the Bank (in October '98) as exemplary in financial- management and
procurement procedures. International procurement of equipment, supplies, and medicines, although
well-implemented by the PCU, suffered important delays generated by contracted agents
(UNICEF/UNOPS), creating difficulties in carrying out operational plans.  Problems in reaching the
objective of better health and nutrition practices was mainly due to incompletion of a contract, despite
adequate PCU supervision (see Section 4.1), although there may have also been an element of losing sight
of the health practices objective. There were certain deficiencies in project monitoring and evaluation,
though some of these were attributable to project reorganization over time. A multiple-focus evaluation
effort at the end of project produced adequate data for final project assessment.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated overall as satisfactory due to major improvements in project
implementation in the final two project years during which time significant advances were made at
operational levels of the health system, even though performance was mostly unsatisfactory during the first
years of the project.  In the last few years, BHNP became an active participant in health reform
discussions in the central MOH.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Technical approach:
Integrated health services model represents a major contribution to health reform.
3   For operationalization of prevention-oriented integrated care that breaks the inefficient system of
curative care-oriented vertical health programs, MOH should ensure the strengthening of central and
regional level planning capability, compatible programming and budgeting frameworks, and integrated
supervision, monitoring, evaluation, information, and logistics (including pharnacy) systems that
support integrated care.
i   With integrated care approaches, MOH must maintain sight on morbidity and mortality reduction
goals. Do not lose sight of priority health needs in the country, and incorporate community-based
strategies, ensuring that attention is not deviated from solving more complex problems such as
matemal mortality and chronic child malnutrition.
Promotion of health and nutrition practices requires substantial further development.
*   Project design for health promotion should specify behavioral goals on desired practices in addition to
indicators for process evaluation and goals for health and nutrition impact.
*   Research for design of appropriate IEC messages and production of educational materials should be
contracted to appropriately skilled third parties, such as universities, NGOs, or individual experts.
*   Mass media should be more fully exploited in addition to other community-based IEC strategies with
CHWs, organized community groups, schools, and others.
Social marketing of health services has a role within a larger IEC and community health program.
*   Social marketing strategies should have clear objectives, whether to increase a demand for services, or
to promote better health and nutrition practices. Social marketing should have as a main goal better
equity of access.
Community health work requires an organized system for support.
* Community health strategies should link extramural health sector work and CHWs with community
leadership structures and intersectoral collaboration with local governments and other sectors. CHWs
should be trained and supervised to play an important role in health education as well as case
identification and referral.
- 13-



*   Sustainability of community health requires specific policies, including mandates and guidance to
regional and local levels, recognition of the work of CHW and of health personnel with CHW by
considering it within "production" requirements, provision of parameters for planning, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of CHW within local health plans, and commitment of minimal financial
resources to support community health work.
Local NGOs can play a supporting role to the health sector for strengthening community health.
*   Local NGOs can train volunteer and professional health personnel, but their contracting, work
planning, and supervision should be done with or by the health sector to facilitate transference of
community health systems to public sector management.
Management training should be relevant to public sector management at various levels of the system.
*   TOR for management training should be in step with other aspects of health system organization being
concurrently developed by a project, or with the evolving govemment system. Waivers of prevailing
norms may be necessary to facilitate testing and application of new management models.
Equipment and infrastructure investments can be potentiated, but require maintenance commitment.
* Project infrastructure investments can be potentiated by other government investment funds, while
project funds are utilized for preparation of engineering plans appropriate to delivery of integrated
primary care. Ensure MOH budget commitment to maintenance of infrastructure and equipment
investments to strengthen their sustainability.
8.2   Implementation:
Planning for sustainability should be strengthened.
o   Opportunities should not be missed to enhance sustainability of project contributions, such as: a) more
regional decision-making in project design and control, b) more focus on strengthening regional
management capacity, c) legal approvals for operating under a pilot project framework in certain
zones, when different from current legal dispositions, d) project responsibility given to central and
regional MOH functionaries (besides the PCU), including funding of their travel expenses for project
supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
Technical assistance from the Bank should be available.
*   Early in projects, the Bank should anticipate technical assistance needs of the Borrower in relation to
developing terms of reference, and procurement and disbursement guidelines.
Third-party contracting for implementation was effective, but rigid TOR caused pitfalls.
*   LOI specifications are too rigid to allow for necessary project "rework", the latter being an issue that
QAG has recommended as a normal part of business. To anticipate evolving project needs, a core
team of specialists could be contracted at a set price, with specific products negotiated as needed.
*   Contracts for design and implementation should be separate.
International partnerships should be considered to support future projects.
* Projects should have an element of collaboration with international partners for sharing best practices
policy research and other types of assistance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Apreciaci6n Global:
*   El Informe hace un enfasis muy marcado en las debilidades sectoriales en el pais. Considerando el
calificativo de satisfactorio para uno de los dos objetivos (incremento del uso de servicios de salud)
el atribuir ello exclusivamente al proyecto, resulta poco convincente el argumentar y relativizar los
- 14 -



aportes locales.
*   Existe una implicita contradicci6n pues el disefio original fue cambiado hasta en tres oportunidades y
ha sido el Ministerio de Salud con sus limitaciones quien fue ayudando realmente a defmir los ajustes
necesarios para adecuar el proyecto a las circunstancias.
*   En consecuencia y considerando que la escala de calificaci6n del desempefio del prestatario contempla
tres categorias, corresponderia la intermedia (satisfactorio, no altamente satisfactorio ni
insatisfactorio).
Apreciaci6n por Segmentos:
En 3.4 respecto a la Provisi6n de Servicios de Salud
*   Tomando en consideraci6n el limitado enfasis preventivo en la atenci6n de los servicios de salud, es
preciso destacar la incorporaci6n de nutrici6n tanto en las acciones intramurales como extramurales de
los servicios de salud. En lo que respecta a lo intramural, es necesario destacar la evaluaci6n
alimentaria, la consejeria nutricional, el uso de suplementos preventivamente, el diagn6stico de anemia.
En lo extramural, es preciso destacar el desarrollo de actividades educativas (preparaci6n de alimentos)
con sostenida participaci6n de personal de salud, no nutricionista necesariamente.
*   El PSNB  contribuy6 al desarrollo de las Normas para la prevenci6n de la deficiencia de
micronutrientes (PREDEMI), que han constituido un instrumento tecnico indispensable para las
intervenciones de prevenci6n de anemia y vitamina A.
3   Con respecto a la vitamina A, el proyecto contribuy6 en la definici6n de los procedimientos para el
manejo de suplementos de vitamina A en el pais, con el apoyo de especialistas intemacionales (Dra.
Barbara Underwood).
3   Asimismo, se realizaron actividades extramurales de seguimiento domiciliario, que permitieron reforzar
acciones de consejeria intramural, como parte de la atenci6n integral. Se desarroll6 un modulo de
capacitaci6n para personal de salud para el manejo nutricional intramural, asi como un m6dulo de
pautas de consejeria en alimentacion y nutrici6n.
En 3.4 sobre Promocion de la Salud:
3   Con relaci6n al segundo subcomponente nutrici6n, es preciso destacar la importancia del disefno de la
intervenci6n educativa comunicacional, tomando en cuenta estudios de diagn6stico (Estudio de
Micronutrientes, y estudios KAP y estudios cualitativos). La intervenci6n tomo en cuenta resultados
de indicadores biol6gicos, dieteticos, de disponibilidad de alimentos, los cuales complementados con el
KAP, orientaron la definici6n de comportamientos esperados en alimentacion y nutrici6n en la
poblaci6n intervenida del ambito del proyecto.
*   En este sentido, con el diagnostico alimentario y nutricional se disefaron las intervenciones educativo
comunicacionales en nutrici6n, precisandose comportamientos esperados, factibles de ser llevados a
cabo por las madres / tutores en las localidades donde se implementaron. Esta estrategia promovi6 el
uso de alimentos locales y de bajo costo y contindose con un mecanismo piloto de monitoreo de
cambios de comportamiento Ilevado a cabo por el PSNB y de supervisi6n por el personal de salud, en
ambitos seleccionados.
*   En la pagina 8 se dice, que en el subcomponente de nutricion.... "resulting in a community
demostration model that could be implemented by CHW". Sera necesario precisar que como parte de
este modelo los agentes comunitarios participaron activamente en el mismo, la cual tiene una gran
relevancia para con la sostenibilidad de las acciones a nivel comunitario.
*   En el componente de Promoci6n de la Salud no se ha incluido el Curso de Quechua y Cultura Andina
desarrollado en el Cusco, y que en opini6n de la propia DISA y la UNSAAC ha tenido resultados
exitosos, resultando en una intervenci6n sostenible.
- 15 -



En 4.1 respecto a Promoci6n de la Salud
*   El componente de promoci6n de la salud muestra resultados importantes en sus subcomponentes (IEC,
mercadeo de servicios, actividades en comunidad, curso de quechua y cultura andina), los que son
reconocidos en diferentes partes del documento. No se puede evaluar promoci6n de la salud en funci6n
de practicas saludables, (auin mAs alla del corto tiempo de intervenci6n) pues sus objetivos incluyen
aspectos diferentes. No nos parece consistente una evaluaci6n insatisfactoria (mas aun cuando se lleva
a concluir sobre un componente que representa el 34% del monto del prestamo). De otro lado, el CAP
no fue pensado para evaluar el componente de promoci6n.
*   Es necesario seiialar que si bien los comportamientos esperados sefialados en la secci6n 4.1, formaron
parte de los resultados del CAP, en el caso de nutrici6n, se dio prioridad a los comportamientos
inadecuados con relaci6n a la problematica de anemia entre los 6 y 24 meses.
*   De esta manera no se di6 prioridad al "uso de aceite o grasa en la alimentaci6n del nifio" o "dar
alimentos proteicos 5 o mAs veces a la semana", como se sugiere en la seccion 4.1, por no ser
considerados de prioridad frente a la problematica sanitaria diagnosticada y frente al limitado accionar
detectado del personal de salud a partir de los 6 meses en lo que respecta a alimentaci6n y nutricion.
* Por otro lado, comportamientos como "uso de sal yodada", no fueron intervenidos directamente por el
Proyecto dado que el Ministerio de Salud cuenta con un programa sostenido y tecnicamente solvente
en el control de la deficiencia de yodo. Por ello la estrategia del proyecto consisti6 en aunar esfuerzos
con el mencionado programa, como puede ilustrarse con los cambios en la concentraci6n de yodo
urinario de escolares y mujeres en la sierra sur, documentada por el PREDEMI (se adjunta grafico).
*   Las practicas que figuran en el punto 4.1 respecto a Promoci6n de la Salud, difieren de las de la matriz
del anexo 1.
*   En la pagina 12 se menciona al HIS como fuente respecto a consultas de nifios menores con diarrea o
EDA. La fuente fue historias clinicas.
*   De la informaci6n obtenida por la encuesta en poblaci6n aplicada respecto a uso de los servicios, no se
puede sostener la afirmaci6n de que en los ambitos del proyecto se ha producido una disminucion de la
demanda de la poblaci6n en extrema pobreza en todos los anmbitos, a excepci6n de Villa El Salvador.
*   En el parrafo sobre el contexto, se pone en comillas la observacion del pais sobre gerencia
insatisfactoria del subproyecto cuestionandola en sus efectos mas no explicando porque es que no se
resolvi6 esta necesidad. Aqui nuevamente se transfiere excesivamente la responsabilidad al pais aun
cuando se acepta que el enfoque inicial fue malo y los t6rminos de referencia formulados inadecuados.
Se asigna el mayor peso de responsabilidad a la "falta de contraparte".
En el punto 4.5 respecto al impacto en el desarrollo institucional:
*   Debe incluirse un punto sobre la organizaci6n de redes de laboratorio efectuada conjuntamente con el
Instituto Nacional de Saluc.
*   En el mismo punto, respecto a infraestructura, debe incluirse a otras instancias como los Municipios,
CTAR y ONG's.
El el item 5.2 hace por unica vez un reconocimiento al aporte nacional del PSBPT pero lo disminuye por la
critica inicial a la resistencia a las reformas.
En el item 5.3 se hace referencia a un clima hostil los 4 primeros afios, sin embargo luego especifica que se
debi6 a problemas en ambas partes que casi generan el cierre temprano del proyecto.
En el item 6. 1:
*   Se plantea un excesivo enfasis en el papel del ex coordinador regional del PSNB  en la
institucionalizacion de los aportes del proyecto, relativizando el valor de la decisi6n institucional.
*   La escasa sostenibilidad de los componentes de promoci6n que se seniala, dista de las evaluaciones
- 16 -



realizadas. Es mas, los desarrollos efectuados por el PSNB han servido de base para proyectar la
Direcci6n Ejecutiva de Promoci6n de la Salud, en la estructura organica de la DGSP.-
En la Secci6n 7, las contemplaciones y explicaciones por las cuales se considera la performance del banco
satisfactoria no son igualmente comprensivas cuando se analiza el desempenio del prestamista.
Respecto al punto 8 de Lecciones Aprendidas:
*   Cuando se refiere al poco compromiso o deterrninaci6n del nivel central para acciones de IEC, esta
desdeflando las numerosas acciones en esta area emprendidas por la DGSP y el PSBPT, a lo largo de
los ultimos 4-5 afnos.
*   El problema de sostenibilidad parece deberse debido a que no se logro realmente institucionalizar a
nivel regional o local a pesar que existian condiciones para ello, aceptando que a nivel central habian
muchas limitaciones.
*   El mercadeo social de servicios ha sido un importante aporte, pero es preocupante la aceptaci6n que en
realidad no ha sido significativo el aporte de mayor acceso a la poblaci6n de extrema pobreza.
En el Anexo 1:
Se insiste en colocar 5 indicadores del SAR (los 5 primeros de la matriz), incluyendo aspectos de
mortalidad matema e infantil, indicando que el proyecto proporcionari los datos. Este tema fue abordado
varias veces con el Banco, concluyendo que por los alcances de la intervenci6n, s6lo se ofreceria
informaci6n sobre lactancia matema exclusiva. Respecto de la evoluci6n del proyecto, recuerdese la ayuda
memoria de febrero de 1998, en la que se respalda la reorientaci6n del proyecto hacia el desarrollo de redes
de servicios de salud. Siendo asi de claro el acuerdo con el Banco sobre el enfoque del proyecto, los
criterios de evaluaci6n del mismo, deben incorporar principalmente variables relacionadas al mejoramiento
de los servicios.
Otro - Se han omitido algunas incorporaciones importantes:
*   Destacar la gesti6n administrativo-financiera y de control del PSNB, reconocida oficialmente por el
propio Banco Mundial (12-19 octubre de 1998).
*   La gesti6n, control y supervisi6n continua del proyecto permitieron la toma de decisiones de manera
oportuna y eficaz en relaci6n al seguimiento de los contratos y a la sanci6n respecto de irregularidades
posibles.
* Las menciones anteriores son oportunas de resaltar, maxime si se analizan los resultados finales de la
gesti6n gubemamental anterior y los continuos esfuerzos del Banco por propiciar los mecanismos de
control anticorrupci6n y la gesti6n transparente de los proyectos.
*   Existe un balance de retrasos importantes en las licitaciones intemacionales de equipos, insumos y
medicamentos generados por los agentes de compra contratados (UNICEF/UNOPS), que a su vez
originaron dificultades en la implementaci6n global del plan operativo, asi como diversas observaciones
a los items de medicamentos adquiridos.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Team consisted of:
- 17 -



- Laura C. Altobelli (ICR Author)
- Livia Benavides (Task Team Leader)
- Ana Maria Arteaga (Program Assistant, LCSHD)
- Patricia Bemedo (Program Assistant, LCSHD)
The ICR was reviewed by:
- Charles Griffin (Sector Manager, LCSHD)
- Evangeline Javier (Sector Leader, LCC6C)
- Ruth Levine (Senior Health Economist, LCSHH)
- Isabella Danel (Public Health Specialist, LCSHH)
- Jerker Liljestrand (Lead Health Specialist, HDNHE)
- The Borrower (MOH and BHNP)
-1 8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome /Impact Indicators:
Indicator for                           Projected in last PSR1             Actual
__________ I  Estimate
Health Outcomes and Practices                     1996**           1999*             2001*
Child Health
Percent of children 0-5 mo. exclusively breastfed***                           52%              57%
Percent of children 6-9 mo. who receive breast milk                            59%              70%
plus solid food                                                                              Control 49%/
Percent of children 6-23 mo. who receive solid foods                           40%             63%+
first during their main meal                                                                 Control 49%
Percent of children 6-23 mo. who consume animal                                69%              76%
protein more than 3 times a week                                                             Control 77%
Percent of children 6-23 mo. who receive a daily iron                           6%               16%
supplement                                             _    _                                Contol 15%
Percent of children 0-23 mo. with complete well-child                           00/            77% +
services****                                                                      0          Control 64%
Prevalence of diarrhea in children 0-23 mo.               (sa12%               18%           Contol 15%
- < 5years old)Cotl 5
No. of children 0-23 months        N=2366           N=2510            N=280
- < 4     o.2ld)                    Control N=2S1
No. of children 0-5 months                         N=445          Control N=94
Maternal Health
Percent of women with first trimester prenatal care           67%              59%           Contol 61%
Percent of women who sought care for problems in                               66%             74% +
pregnancy                                                                                    Control 58%
Percent of women who took iron daily during                                    82%              94%
pregnancy                                                     _                              Control 900/0
Percent of women with birth attended by health                64%              72%             90% +
personnel                                                     _                              Control 66%
Percent of women who received vitamin A following                              14%/o            43%
delivery                                                      _                    _         Control 47%
Percent of women attended by health personnel for                                               91%
danger signs following a delivery                              _                             Control 78%
No. of women pregnant in the last 3 years    N-2300                                 N=280
I                                           i   (in lot 5 yrs,    N=2years       Control N=251
* Data sources: Baseline KAP survey, Academy for Educational Development, 1999. Ex-post KAP survey, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, 2001.
** Data source: 1996 Demographic and Health Survey with oversampling in BHNP project areas.
*** Ex-post evaluation of SAR impact indicators on infant-child mortality and prevalence of malnutrition in children under age 3 was not completed since financin
for oversampling in project areas of the national DHS survey was to have come from a follow-on Bank project that was not effective in time for the survey.
*** Includes four well-child visits, full immunizations series, and iron and vitamin A supplements.
+ Significantly different results (p<.05) as compared to baseline and/or control values
Control=comparison population in matched non-project control areas, January 2001
- 19-



Control Area                 BHNP-Intervened
Indicators for                         Health Facilities               Health Facilities
Quality of Care*                              .   -         Lul CC  N                N.       S.
Average number of activities in the basic
package of services for a well-child under         5.8    12.1    9.7    10.8   9.8+    10.2   11.3+    11.1
age 3 (standard = 9 activities)
Percent of child (< age 5) visits that             43      52      47      50     56+      57      51      21
included nutritional counseling                    4
Average number of activities in the basic
package of services for a pregnant woman           5.6    6.8    6.1      6.4    6.5+    6.0+    6.7+    6.8+
(standard = 9 activities)
Average number of quality standards
implemented during deliveries (standard            9       9       8       tO      9      12+     12+      10
13 quality standards) _                                                   _I_
Percent of pregnant women who received a                          56              50+                      81
hemoglobin test                                    _1      57              76      0       55     78+
* Data based on review of approximately 6000 clinical histories of children under age 5 and pregnant women in intervention and control facilities
(approximately 1500 in each category).
+ Significantly different results (p<.05) as compared to baseline and/or control values
Control=comparison health facilities in matched non-project control areas.
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
Projected in    Actual/Latest
Selected Indicators                        last PSR1         Estimate
HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY
Integrated Health Care Delivery Strengthening
No. of micronetworks with functioning Management Committees        51               50
No. of facilities with redistribution of rooms and equipment      267               288
No. of facilities with implemented organizational model of
consulting rooms                                                  255               290
No. of facilities with organized integrated admissions procedures  241              237
No. of facilities with implemented laboratory model               252               204
No. of facilities with decision manuals and integrated health
procedures in women and child consulting rooms                     300              446
No. of personnel trained in womens' health                        1194             1223
No. of personnel trained in child health                          1236             1372
No. of personnel trained in promotion of nutrition in pregnancy    773              962
No. of personnel trained in promotion of child nutrition           954             1035
No. of tutors and trainers trained in flexible adult education     137              138
Information Systems
No. of facilities with processing centers organized                38               35
Equipment
No. of facilities equipped with truck                              54               53
No. of facilities equipped with motorcycle                        208               208
No. of DISAs and network centers with computers installed           9                13
No. of facilities with computers installed                         65               58
No. of facilities with communication equipment installed           121              43
No. of facilities with basic medical equipment installed           329              425
No. of facilities with medicines and supplies distributed         332               357
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
No. of facilities with legally registered property rights         260               230
No. of facilities with infrastructure improvements                 226              184
PROMOTION OF HEALTH PRACTICES
IEC Capacity Strengthening
No. of IEC commissions formed                                      19               15
No. of personnel trained in use of IEC techniques and materials   226               322
No. of facilities with personnel trained in IEC                    81               79
No. of CHW trained in use of IEC techniques and materials         426               506
Promotion of Nutrition Practices
No. of personnel trained in counselling, educational techniques
and demostrative sessions in nutrition                      772              743
No. of facilities with personnel trained in counselling, educational
techniques and demostrative sessions in nutrition           233               235
No. of CHW trained in counselling, educational techniques and
demostrative sessions in nutrition                          612              749
No. of facilities receiving nutrition demonstration kits          259               290
No. of demostrative sessions in nutrition                         996              1185
No. of mothers of children < 2 trained to prepare iron-rich foods  5679            8952
Promotion of Health Practices in Tuberculosis
No. of personnel trained in strategic planning and management of
IEC interventions in TB                                      90               77
-21 -



SOCIAL MARKETING OF HEALTH SERVICES
No. of personnel trained in empathic communications and
interpersonal relations                                      721               993
No. of facilities with work plans to improve interpersonal relations  75              71
No. of personnel trained in diploma program for
Social Marketing of Health Services                          130               125
No. of facilities with material for social marketing                126              127
No. of CHW trained in promotion of health services                  556              501
COMMUNITY HEALTH
Population Censes
No. of communities with census completed                            861              795
No. of facilities with lists of pregnant women, children under
age 5, women of fertile age, and families                    132               127
Community Health Workers
No. of CHW with supply kit                                          834              788
No. of CHW trained in maternal-child health promotion               892              1073
No. of CHW working effectively in mat-child health promotion        554              664
No. of CHW trained in surveillance and control of malaria           177              269
No. of traditional midwife manuals distributed                      460              985
No. of traditional midwives trained                                 228              204
No. of trained traditional midwives effectively working in child
health and womens' health                                    132               145
No. of facilities with community referral system installed          141              132
No. of CHW with formats for population follow-up                    817              787
Deparasitization of Children
No. of children 2-7 years of age given anti-parasite medication   45,019            89,897
Quechua and Andean Culture
No. of personnel trained in Quechua and Andean culture              120               94
No. of tutors trained in educational methodology for Quechua and
Andean culture for health personnel                           30               31
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCING
Health Service Network Formation
No. of personnel trained in delimitation of networks                206              212
Quality Assurance
No. of personnel trained in quality standards and indicators        342              490
No. of personnel trained in quality improvement projects            367              615
No. of quality improvement projects implemented                     394              254
No. of facilities with quality improvement projects implemented     97               107
Health Services Management
No. of personnel trained in diploma program for health services
management                                                   305               289
No. of personnel trained in health management                       89                88
Programming and Budgeting
No. of personnel trained in programming and budgeting               233              312
No. of regional health departments (DISAs) with completed
budgets using SPP                                             7                 6
Costing System
No. of personnel trained in use of costing system                   II                11
No. of facilities with costing system installed                      7                7
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Esthnate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Components at Appraisal
1. Mother Child Health                              19.00
2. Nutrition                                         6.50
3. Tuberculosis                                      1.00
4. IEC                                              16.90
5. Project Management                                2.10
Final Components
1. Health Services Provision                                       22.10
2. Health Promotion                                                 14.90
3. Management and Financing                                          5.60
4. Project Management                                                1.70
Total Baseline Cost                                 45.50           44.30
Total Project Costs             45.50          44.30
Total Financing Required             45.50          44.30
-23 -



Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
''4t^!rv boo WM0e~NSw                                          N.8P        TotalCst
1. Works                         0.00           0.36           1.47           0.00           1.83
(0.00)         (0.32)         (1.28)         (0.00)        (1.60)
2. Goods                         8.09            1.04          2.80           0.00           11.93
(5.27)         (0.68)         (1.82)         (0.00)        (7.77)
3. Services                      10.27          2.58           13.09          0.00          25.94
(8.64)         (2.17)        (11.02)         (0.00)        (21.83)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          4.60           0.00           4.60
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.39)         (0.00)        (2.39)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         18.36           3.98          21.96          0.00          44.30
(13.91)        (3.17)         (16.51)        (0.00)        (33.59)
4 (Miscellaneous) refer to incremental operations costs.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  by Cor ponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Components at Appraisal
1. Mother Child Health    15.36     4.74                                                0.0    0.0
2. Nutrition              2.44      0.76                                                0.0    0.0
3. Tuberculosis           0.08       0.02                                               0.0    0.0
4. IEC                    14.36     4.44                                                0.0    0.0
5. Project Management     1.76       0.54                                               0.0    0.0
Final Components
1. Health Services                                       16.78      5.35
Provision
2. Health Promotion                                      11.48      3.42
3. Management and                                        4.24       1.32
Financing
4. Project Management                                     1.29      0.41
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stagc of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                        Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/93                        4   TM, SPHS, HS, C,
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/94                         3   TM, HS, C
Supervision
6/95                         3   TM, ES, C,
12/95                        2   TM, ES,
3/96                         4    TM, HS, E, C,
8/96                         6    TM, PS, HE, HS, C,SSS,
NGOS,
12/96                        4    TM, HS, E, SSS,
4/97                         4    TM, E, SSS, FMS,
6/97                         7    TM, HS, PS, SSS,
2/98                         7    TM, HS, C, PHC,
10/98                        5    TM, PS, HC,PHC,
4/99                         4    TM,HNS,HS, PS,
11-12/99                     3    TM,HNS,C,
5/00                         6    TM, HNS, PA, C, FMS,
7/00                         4   DS,
11/00                        2    TM,HND,PA,C,
PS,PA,
ICR
12/00                        2    TM, HNS
SPHS Senior Population Health Specialist    TM: Task Manager          HP: Health Specialist
C: Consultant                          EC: Education Consultant       HE: Health Economist
E: Economist                           PS: Procurement Specialist     SSS: Social Sector Specialist
NGOS: NGO Specialist                   FMS: Financial Mgmt. Specialist    DS: Disbursement Specialist
PHC: Public Health Consultant          HNS: Health & Nutrition Specialist  PA: Project Assistant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              u1$ ('003)
Identification/Preparation                 45.9                      108,561
Appraisal/Negotiation                      88.2                      193,548
Supervision                             361.36                     1,564,611
ICR                                        6.75                       24,546
Total                                   502.21                     1,891,266
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         OH  OSUOM   O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  C) SU O M  O N  * NA
O Physical                                OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
-I Financial                              * H  C) SU O M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Ii Gender                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  C) SU O M  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development              0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
1 Public sector management                0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  C)SUOM  ON  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OLu OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS *S  OLU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Ol Preparation                                       OHS OS   O  u  O HU
OI Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O u  O HU
L Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.   World Bank, "Peru, Basic Health and Nutrition Project", Staff Appraisal Report, Report No.
11801-PE, January 7, 1994.
2. Basic Health and Nutrition Project, "Plan Estrategico Trienal", October, 1996.
3. SASE, "Evaluaci6n Internedia del Programa de Capacitaci6n del PSNB," October, 1997.
4. Basic Health and Nutrition, "Misi6n de Supervisi6n del Proyecto de Salud y Nutrici6n Basica y Analisis
Estrategico del Sector Salud -- Ayuda Memoria 17-27 de febrero de 1998", February 1998.
5.  SASE, "Evaluaci6n Intermedia del Proyecto de Salud y Nutrici6n Basica - Informe Final," March,
1998.
6. APROPO, "Mercadeo de los Servicios de Salud y Promoci6n de Deberes y Derechos Ciudadanos en
Salud y Nutrici6n - Informe de Resultados, Linea de Base-Linea de Salida," December, 2000.
7. PRISMA. "Analisis de Indicadores Referidos al Modelo de Atencion Integral en Establecimientos
PSNB y Establecimientos Control: Informe Final," Enero, 2001.
8.  Basic Health and Nutrition Project, "Informe Final de Indicadores de Implementaci6n del PSNB",
March, 2001.
9. Basic Health and Nutrition Project, "Resumen de Ejecuci6n y Resultados," May 16, 2001.
10. Perez F., T. L6pez and J.L. Quintana, "Informe Final de la Evaluaci6n de los Resultados Sanitarios de
Tuberculosis y Malaria en Establecimientos de Salud, PSNB y Control 1996-2000," April, 2001.
11. Altobelli L., "Lessons Learned: Basic Health and Nutrition Project 1994-2000," May, 2001.
12. Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, "Estudio Final de Conocimientos, Actitudes y Practicas
CAP-2000", May, 2001.
13.  Basic Health and Nutrition Project, "Analisis de Indicadores de Cobertura para Establecimientos
PSNB y Control," May, 2001.
14.  Basic Health and Nutrition Project, "Matriz General de Instrumentos Desarrollados por el PSNB
(annotated)," May, 2001. (See sunmmary list in Annex 8).
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Instruments Developed by the Project
1. DEFINICION DEL   a) Definici6n del marco conceptual y          Modelo de Atenci6n (en colaboracion
MODELO DE             metodol6gico de referencia para la operaci6n  con equipo tecnico de la DGSP)
ATENCION              de los servicios de salud
Guia metodol6gica para la
implementaci6n del Modelo de
Atenci6n
2. DELIMITACION Y   a) Delimitaci6n de redes y microredes          Lineamientos para la conformaci6n de
CONSTITUCION                                                   redes de salud
DE REDES DE                                                    (en colaboraci6n con un grupo tecnico
SERVICIOS                                                      institucional)
b) Redefinici6n del nivel de complejidad de los  Normas sobre niveles de complejidad de
establecimientos                        servicios de los EE.SS. del primer y
segundo nivel de atenci6n
(en colaboraci6n con equipo tecnico de
la DGSP)
Estandares de actividades, de
infraestructura y equipamiento del
primer nivel de atenci6n
c) Acreditaci6n de servicios de las redes y  Manual de calificaci6n de
microredes                              establecimientos y servicios del primer
nivel de atenci6n.
3. ORGANIZACION    a) Conformaci6n de la estructura de gesti6n de   Modelo de gesti6n de redes
DE LA GESTION         redes y microredes
DE REDES Y
MICROREDES
Reglamento de organizaci6n y funciones
de la erencia de red
Lineamientos generales para la
or anizaci6n de microredes
b) Capacitaci6n de funcionarios jefes y    Curso (diploma) de capacitaci6n a
personal con cargo directivo en gesti6n de    distancia para el fortalecimiento de las
servicios de salud                      capacidades gerenciales
Manual para la elaboraci6n de proyectos
de mejoramiento de la calidad
Metodologia de implementacion del
trabajo intramural
Manual de organizaci6n del trabajo
extramural
4.                     a) Implementaci6n de sistemas de planificaci6n  Formatos para planificaci6n,
IMPLEMENTACIO         en red                                   programaci6n y elaboraci6n de
N DE SISTEMAS                                                  presupuestos en servicios
DE GESTION EN
RED
b) Implementaci6n de sistemas de control   Manual para la construcci6n de
interno de la gesti6n                   estandares e indicadores de calidad
- 30 -



Manual de supervisi6n, monitoreo y
evaluaci6n para el mejoramiento de la
calidad y eficiencia de los servicios de
salud
Procedimientos de auditoria medica y a
los servicios de salud con enfoque de
calidad.
c) Implementaci6n del Sistema de Gesti6n   Guia metodol6gica para la
Financiera                              implementaci6n del Sistema de
Informaci6n de Costos e Ingresos para
redes de servicios de salud (SICI)
Software del Sistema de Informacion de
Costos e Ingresos para redes de
servicios de salud (SICI)
Analisis Comparativo de Costos
Observados y Costos Estandares
Guia metodol6gica para la
determinaci6n de tarifas
d) Desarrollo del sistema de informaci6n de  Prototipo del Sistema de Informaci6n de
salud local                             Salud Local (en elaboraci6n conjunta
con la OEI)
5.                     a) Organizaci6n del sistema de gesti6n de la  Lineamientos del sistema de
IMPLEMENTACIO         capacitaci6n                             capacitaci6n (en elaboraci6n conjunta
N DE SISTEMAS                                                  con equipo tecnico DGSP y proyectos)
DE OPERACION
EN RED
Manual de Operaciones del Sistema de
Capacitaci6n
Guia para la definici6n de
responsabilidades del sistema de
capacitaci6n
Manual para la selecci6n y acreditaci6n
de tutores y/o docentes
Estandar de equipos y materiales de
Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje
.__ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _   (CRAs)
Guia para el diagn6stico de necesidades
de capacitaci6n
Guia para la formulaci6n de Planes de
Capacitaci6n
Guia para el disefio e implementaci6n
del sistema de monitoreo/ evaluaci6n y
sistema de informnaci6n de la
cap ac itaci 6n
Guia de Modalidades de Capacitaci6n
Instructivo para la elaboraci6n de
materiales educativos
b) Organizaci6n de la red de laboratorios  Modelo de organizaci6n de la red de
laboratorios
Manual de organizaci6n y funciones de
la red de laboratorios
Manual de procedimientos de la red de
laboratorios
- 31 -



Manual de procedimientos de control de
calidad de la red de laboratorios
M6dulos de capacitaci6n de laboratorio
c) Organizaci6n del sistema de referencia y  Lineamientos de organizaci6n del
contrareferencia                        sistema de referencia y contrareferencia
(en colaboraci6n con el grupo tecnico de
la DGSP)
Manual de organizaci6n y funciones del
sistema de referencia y contrarefrencia
Manual de operaciones del sistema de
referencia y contrareferencia
Manual de procedimientos del sistema
de referencia y contrareferencia
d) Organizaci6n de la gesti6n de intervenciones  Documento sobre el rol y funciones de
educativo comunicacionales              las Comisiones IEC
Guia de planeamiento estrategico de la
comunicaci6n educativa en salud
(PECE)
Disefio metodol6gico de Talleres PECE
Manual de validaci6n de materiales
educativo comunicacionales
Guia para el autodiagn6stico local de
recursos comunicacionales y
elaboraci6n de mapa comunicacional
Recopilaci6n y analisis de materiales
educativo comunicacionales en temas de
salud mujer, salud del niho y
enfermedades transmisibles
Set de instrumentos modelo para
monitoreo y evaluaci6n de
intervenciones IEC
6. OBRAS DE            a) Saneamiento fisico legal de terrenos     Guia para el saneamiento legal de los
INFRAESTRUC-TU                                                 terrenos de los EE.SS
RA
b) Elaboraci6n de expedientes tecnicos     Esquema de contenido de expedientes
tecnicos para la ejecuci6n de obras de
salud
c) Realizaci6n de obras de infraestructura  Prototipos de Centro de Salud y Puesto
de Salud
M6dulos de arquitectura y equipamiento
por unidades de servicios para el primer
nivel de atenci6n
Guia para la rehabilitaci6n y
adecuaci6n de establecimientos de salud
el primer nivel
Flujo de procedimientos para pagos de
ejecuci6n de obras
d) Sefializaci6n interna y extema de       Guia para la ambientaci6n y
establecimientos                        sehializaci6n de EE.SS
e) Gesti6n de la infraestructura           Flujo metodol6gico de las acciones de
infraestructura de los EE.SS
- 32 -



Guia para el mantenimiento de la
infraestructura fisica de los EE.SS.
7. EQUIPAMIENTO Y  a) Equipamiento y dotaci6n de medicamentos e  Sistema informatico de adquisiciones
DOTACION DE          insumos                                (incorporado en el sistema general de
MEDICAMENTOS                                                gestion administrativa)
Guia para personal de salud sobre el
uso, operaci6n y conservaci6n de
equipos y mobiliario m6dico
Banco de especificaciones t6cnicas para
equipos medicos y de laboratorio y para
medicamentos
Expedientes tecnicos para licitaciones
8. ORGANIZACION    a) Sensibilizaci6n e incorporaci6n de la yisi6n   Video Modelo de Atenci6n Integral
DE LOS               del nuevo modelo de atenci6n
SERVICIOS
Curso de Relaciones Interpersonales
para personal de salud
b) Diagnostico de la situaci6n de los servicios   Paquete metodol6gico instrumental para
el diagn6stico de la situaci6n de los
servicios
c) Adecuaci6n de flujos y procedimientos de    Manual de admisi6n integral
atenci6n intramural
M6dulo de capacitaci6n en admisi6n
Manual de procedimientos de Salud de
_____________________  la  M ujer
Manual de decisiones de Salud de la
Mujer
Manual simplificado de Salud de la
Mujer
M6dulos de capacitaci6n en Salud de la
Mujer
Manual de procedimientos de Salud del
Ninio para profesionales
Manual de procedimientos de Salud del
Niiio para tIcnicos
Manual de decisiones de Salud del Ninio
Manual simplificado de Salud del Nifno
M6dulos de capacitaci6n en Salud del
Nifno
Manual de procedimientos de Salud del
Adulto
Manual de gesti6n de farmacia
Guia de informaci6n
frrmaco-terapeutica para la atenci6n del
nifio y la mujer
Manual de procedimientos de
laboratorio
M6dulo de capacitaci6n de
_ procedimientos de laboratorios
M6dulo para la adecuaci6n cultural del
._________________   _____parto
- 33 -



M6dulo de capacitaci6n para la
orientaci6n y manejo alimentario
nutricional en los servicios de salud
Guia de pautas basicas para la
consejeria en alimentaci6n infantil en
los servicios de salud
Documental de Nutrici6n: "Haciendo
Camino al Andar"
Video educativo de nutrici6n: "Mujeres
de Hierro":
d) Capacitaci6n de prestadores de salud en  Curso de quechua y cultura andina para
quechua y cultura andina                prestadores de salud (Cusco)
e) Organizaci6n de procedimientos de trabajo    Manual de procedimientos del trabajo
extramural                              extramural
f) Empadronamiento de bogares             M6dulo para el empadronamiento de
hogares
Software de empadronamiento e
identificaci6n de usuarios (SEMIU)
9. PROMOCION DE    a) Fortalecimiento tecnico conceptual del      Guia metodol6gica IEC para la
PRACTICAS             personal de salud y agentes comunitarios en  formaci6n de personal de salud y
SALUDABLES            uso de material y tecnicas educativas   agentes comunitarios
comunitarias de IEC
Guia metodol6gica de formaci6n
flexible de personal de salud y ACS
Guia metodol6gica para el sondeo
bAsico de necesidades y caracteristicas
de aprendizaje del agente comunitario.
b) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Guia de sesi6n demostrativa de
en Nutrici6n                            preparaci6n de alimentos para nifnos y
mujeres en edad fertil
Paquete de materiales educativo
comunicacionales en nutrici6n
c) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Paquete de materiales educativo
en Salud matema                         comunicacionales
Planes modelo intervenciones educativo
comunicacionales en salud matema con
enfogue integral
d) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Paquete de materiales educativo
en IRA                                  comunicacionales en IRA
e) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Paquete de materiales educativo
en EDA                                  comunicacionales en EDA
f) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Paquete de materiales educativo
en Tuberculosis                         comunicacionales en TBC
Planes modelo de intervenciones
educativo comunicacionales en TBC -
Cusco- San Juan de Lurigancho y Villa
El Salvador
g) Intervenciones educativo comunicacionales   Paquete de materiales educativo
en Malaria                              comunicacionales
10. ACTIVIDADES EN  a) Organizaci6n de sistemas de vigilancia y   Metodologia de implementaci6n del
COMUNIDAD             referencia comunal                      sistema de referencia comunal
- 34 -



Metodologia de implementaci6n del
trabajo con agentes comunitarios de
salud
b) Capacitaci6n de agentes comunitarios en  Guia e instructivo para entrevista de
salud mujer y salud nino               autopercepci6n de personal de salud
Guia e instructivo para entrevista a
usuarios
Ficha de entrevistas para promotores y
parteras.
Registro/padr6n de ACS.
Guia de grupos focales con ACS
M6duIo de capacitaci6n sobre el rol y
funciones de los ACS
M6dulos de capacitaci6n de ACS en
salud mujer
M6dulos de capacitaci6n de ACS en
salud infantil
M6dulos de capacitaci6n de ACS en
enfermedades transmisibles
Manual de parteras/os (costa/sierra)
Manuales de promotores
Paquete de material educativo
comunicacional para ACS
Guia y formatos para la observaci6n de
desempefio del ACS
Cuademo de seguimiento poblacional
11. MERCADEO           a) Fortalecimiento tecnico-conceptual de   M6dulo de autoaprendizaje en
SOCIAL DE             funcionarios y personal de salud en     Mercadeo Social de los Servicios de
SERVICIOS DE          mercadeo social de servicios            Salud
SALUD
b) Apoyo a la formulaci6n y ejecuci6n de  Planes modelo de mercadeo social de los
planes de mercadeo social de servicios a  servicios de salud mujer y salud del nifio
nivel de redes y microredes:            Cusco, Piura y Lima
M6dulo de comunicaci6n empatica para
prestadores de salud
Guia metodol6gica de capacitaci6n de
ACS con enfogue de mercadeo social
Paquete de materiales de promoci6n de
los servicios de salud
c) Promoci6n de deberes y derechos ciudadanos  Plan modelo de Promoci6n de Deberes y
en salud                                Derechos Ciudadanos en Salud
12. APOYO AL           a) Definici6n de prioridades sanitarias y  Metodologia para la elaboraci6n de
DESARROLLO            programaci6n a nivel nacional y regional  Analisis de Situaci6n de Salud (ASIS)
INSTITUCIONAL
Metodologia para la definici6n de
prioridades sanitarias.
Documento "Las prioridades sanitarias
del Peru para el periodo 2001- 2005"
(Elaborado con participaci6n ministerial
y equipo tecnico de la DGSP)
- 35-



b) Implementaci6n del sistema de          Metodologia SPP
programaci6n presupuestal (SPP) a nivel de  (en elaboraci6n conjunta con el Proyecto
direcciones de salud y otras unidades  2000, la OGP y OPS)
ejecutoras
M6dulos de capacitaci6n del SPP
(en elaboraci6n conjunta con el Proyecto
2000)
Criterios de Programaci6n de Metas
para la Estructura Funcional
Programatica
Pagina Web SPP
Propuesta de seguimiento, evaluaci6n
presupuestal y acuerdos de gesti6n
M6dulo infonnitico para seguimiento y
evaluaci6n presupuestal
c) Asistencia tecnica para la formulaci6n del    Analisis estrat6gico de la DGSP
plan estrategico y el reordenamiento
organico de la DGSP
Reforma de la Direcci6n General de
Salud de las Personas - Nuevo disefio
organizacional y nuevas funciones
Plan de implementaci6n de Reforma de
la Direcci6n General de Salud de las
Personas
Plan de implementaci6n del Programa
Mujer Nifio de la Reforma de la
Direcci6n General de Salud de las
Personas
Plan de desarrollo institucional de la
DGSP (documento de trabajo)
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31476
_OD       H0                 780               76 -,             740               720              70'         O.
ECUADOR                           i                        COLOMBIA
-20  )/                                                     2s'0S                       
TUMBE                    "A0
-  ~ ~ ~   ~J
4  \           \                   ~~~~~~B R A  Z  I L|
.8&   aU]tTAD   t                             .            t. 0-ao'
80-
EANCXSHj                  *  
HUAR)\Z  Hp  UC*
PA   CAC.-J. (H ICUCAYAL ( tC
*DE-  PASCO  J -           0' .1
P A  C  I F  I C                          Et  ,._>>rROa.
LIMAE                                        Jj
O  C  E A  N                 <        ~                 cf    e t_,1
MADRE DE DIOS
12-  LIMAs\       \.t .  *AISdAr                                              120-
JJ-HUANCAVEL)t  ACUC        v        > N -|---'  
PERU
ANC Y0
BASIC HEALTHAND                              A(                        IMAC           -                \ O
NUTRITION PROJECT                                                                          PN YAYACUCHO  PuNO
TQ    PROJEc AREAS
PAVED ROADS                                 _        ._i                          \
-      OTHER ALWEATHER ROAMS
- | | RAILROADS                                                                          NO    -    T00
-16*- ...    RAILFERRY                                                                                         6-
@   DEPARtENT CAPrrIA                                                           PA     '
*    NATlOtA CAPI1AL           0  50   Q 150 200  5
I  I  I   I     I                             O U
~ RIVERS                                KIERS
-* -  DEPARTMENt BOUNDARIES   T    o          MoD*^ U
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        TAon  sf J*.4amI 
800                                             e   a  .               . .wwwx*a;    ,    187-
80,             70.              76              7At              7             ASr CHILE'l
JUNE 2001



