Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  11801-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
JANUARY 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         11801 PE
Type: SAP
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of November 1993)
Currency Unit: Sol
US$1.00 = Soles 2.1
US$0.48 = lSol
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
BCG               Bacillious Calmette-Guerin vaccine
DPIT              Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus
ELISA             Enzyme Link Immunoabsorbent Assays
ENDES             Encuesta Demografica de Salud Familiar
Demographic and Health Survey
FONCODES          Fondo Nacional de Compensacion y Desarrollo
National Social Compensation and Development Fund
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
INAN              Instituto Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion
National Institute on Feeding and Nutrition
IEC               Information, Education and Communications
INEI              Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informatica
National Statistical and Information Institute
INN               Instituto Nacional de Nutricion
National Nutrition Institute
IU               International Units
MCH               Maternal and Child Health
MINSA             Ministerio de Salud
Ministry of Health
NGO               Non-governmental Organization
PANFAR            Programa de Alimentacion y Nutricion a la
Familia en Alto Riesgo (Feeding Program for High Risk Families)
PLSS              Peru Living Standards Survey
PRISMA            Proyectos en Informatica, Salud, Medicina y Agricultura
Projects in Infonnation Systems, Health, Medicine and Agriculture
PRONABCE          Programa Nacional de Control del Bocio y Cretinismo Endemico
National Goiter and Endemic Cretinism Control Program
SOE               Statements of Expenditure
TBA               Traditional Birth Attendants
TFR               Total Fertility Rate
UDES              Unidad Departmental de Salud
Department of Health Administration Unit
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNIPAC            UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
UTES              Unidades Territorial de Salud
Territorial Health Administration Units
WHO               World Health Organization



FOR OMCL4CL USE ONLY
PERU
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENT
1.    Introduction ................................. 1
2.    Background, Issues and Strategy .......... .                    2
A.   Background ......................... 2
B.    Issues ............................. 8
C.    Govemment Strategy .......        ............ 10
D.    BankRoleandStrategy  ......         ........... 11
E.    Rationale for Bank Involvement .....     ....... 12
F.    Lessons Learned  .......       .............. 13
3. The Project   ..14
A. Objectives .14
B. Project Area .14
C. Project Components .15
D.  Project Implementation .26
4.    Project Cots, Fnancing, Procurement and
Disbursements .28
S. BenefitsandRisks .37
6.    Agreemenrs Reached and Reconmendation .39
7.    ANNEXES  ...................................
Annex 1:    Selected Health and Demographic Data .41
Annex 2:    Project Area: Population, Infrastructure and
Human Resources .50
Annex 3:    Description of Protocols .52
Annex 4:  Project Management .58
Annex 5:    Indicators of Project Performance and Impacts . .. 61
Annex 6:    Selection Criteria for NGO Contracts .64
Annex 7:  Project Cost Tables .68
Annex 8:    Documents Available in Project Files .70
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 4.1      Project Cost Summary by Summary Accounts   ...              .... 30
Table 4.2      Project Cost Summary by Components  ....              ........ 31
TAble 4.3      Financing Plan by Disbursement Category  ....            ...... 31
Table 4.4      Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ... .. 35
This report is based on the findings of an apprasal mission which visited Peru in Juay 1993
and comprised Theresa P. Jones (rask Manager), Karen Cavanaugh, Sandra Rosenhouse and
Marco Polo Torres (Consultant, IEC Specialist). Messrs. AUain Coliou and Ramer Stecwkan
were, respectively, the managing Division Chief and Department Director for this operaton.
The local preparation team was coordinated by Lic. Maria Rodriguez de Tello, Technical
Director of the Office of Planning of the Ministy of Health. The team members were Ing.
Pedro Dongo, Dr. bmael Cornejo-Rossello, Dr. Carlos Bardales, Dr. Jose Lizarraga and Dr.
Milagos Nunez.



-ii-
PERU
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borreur:         Government of Peru
EMauing Agency: Ministry of Health
Amoumt:          US$34 million
Terms:           Payable in 20 years, including a five year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
ProWest ObJetiv
and Descr:   The objective of the project is to improve health and
nutritional status in the project area, particularly among
poor women and children, by: (a) increasing the use of
matenal and child health and nutrition services by
extending access and improving the quality of services;
and (b) promoting better health and nutition practices,
with an emphasis on preventive care and education.
The project area covers 15 provinces in three regions
(Grau, Nor Oriental del Marafion and Inka) and one
area of greater Lima (San Juan de Lurigancho district).
Most of the populations in the provinces are mountain
communities which include a significant share of
indigenous people and of the extremely poor. In Lima,
the district covered by the project is one of the poorest
of the city. The emphasis in the project will be on
preventive care in the areas of reproductive health and
the health of inmnts and young children. In addition to
strengthening activities such as the follow-up of
pregnant women, child growth monitoring and
micronutrent supplementation, more demand for
preventive services will be generated through an
integrated information, education and communications
(IEC) component. The proposed project would finance
basic medical equipment (for maternal and child health
services at about 60 health centers and 200 health posts
and for roughly 2,200 community health workers);
vehicles for supervision; medicine, micronutrients and



- iv -
other supplies; computers; office, printing and
laboratory equipment; and basic instructional materials
for health facilities. The project would futhermore
cove, the costs of operational research and technical
assistance aimed at strengthening services and testing
innovative strategies to improve delivery and quality.
The project would finance services contracted to
develop and conduct mass media campaigns as well as
the production and distribution of printed and
audiovisual materials for the IEC program. It would
also finance training and impact studies.
Benefits:         The demand for key preventive services and better
health practices will be promoted through the IEC
campaign. The resulting changes in behavior and
ncreased demand, coupled with the greater access by
the population in the project area to basic health and
nutrition services and improvements in the quality of
those services, should improve health and nutrition
status. Also, the project would promote policy and
program changes that would improve the effectiveness
of the delivery of primary health and nutrition services
by supporting research and other analysis.
Risks             The main risk is that implementation by the
Government will be weak. This is addressed in two
ways. First, the project focuses on a small number of
programs most critical for the poor, thereby minimizing
the number of activities to be managed. Second, the
project envisages the use of experienced NGOs to
supplement the Government's capacity. A second risk
is posed by the possibility that the Government may
revise the process of decentraliztion of health services
during project implementation. The project addresses
this risk by channelling funds through the central
government. In addition, any change in
implementation responsibilities for the project would
need to be agreed with the Bank. A third risk is the
history of poor outreach by public health facilities. The
project focuses on this aspect by funding the
incremental recurrent costs of increased supervision (on
a declining basis); including supervision in the key
indicators of project implementaton; and promoting
changes in attitudes and practices through an integrated



IEC campaign. A deterioration in security conditions is
a risk to all projects in Peru. The project confines its
activities to areas of the country which are not
classified as emergency zones. The selection of these
sites will be kept under review and would be subject to
change depending on security developments.
Fstimated Costs:
Project Cost Sunnar
(US$ million)
:-   :  -  - -      ~~~~~. .    stimated Costs l
Pr|ject .m   n          J       Foreign   Tl1
A. Matermal and Child Health   8.0      10.0  18.0
B. Nutrition                    1.7      1.1   2.8
C. Tuberculosis                0.1       0.0   0.1
D. Information                 11.0      5.8  16.8
E. Project Management and Eval.   1.5    0.6   2.1
TotalWBEINEOTS   .             2 3      17.5  39.8
Physical Contingencies       0.4      0.6   1.0
Price Contingencies          2.0      1.7   3.7
Total ?kOJECE COSTS           24.7             44tS
(M vI... a~                    43                .



- vi -
EimnPncn :
- -    -        :a.            .
(US$ milion)
Government          9.5      1.0    10.5
Proposed IBRD Loan   15M 34.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year-
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2MO
Annual     2.0  5.8  7.4  6.8   5.6   4.5   1.9
Cunulative  2.0  7.8  15.2  22.0  27.6  32.1  34.0
Rate of Retum:,   Not appHcable
Poverty Categorv:  Program of ¶argeted Interventtons. The opeton targets the poor by
emphasiing primary healdth actvities and by serving areas of the
country where the incidence of extreme poverty is high.



BASIC BEALTH AND NUTITION PROJECT
1. Introduction
1.1        In August 1990, in the midst of plummeting output and
hyperinflation, a new administration in Peru announced the first measures in
a strong stabilization and adjustment program. The Government has been
trying to reverse Peru's legacy of economic deterioration by restoring
macroeconomic stability and promoting sustainable, broad-based growth.
That legacy is reflected in many indicators, but perhaps most importantly, in
the persistence of a high incidence of poverty in certain regions and ethnic
groups, and a decrease in welfare to below the poverty line for many who
had not previously been poor.
1.2        The potential of Peru was frustrated during the past three
decades of heavy Government intenrention in the economy, which resulted in
laws and policies inimical to growth. During the administration of President
Garcia (1985-1990) the explanation propounded for chronic inflation and low
growth was that Peru was in a "debt trap": servicing the external debt would
accelerate devaluation and inflation, erode domestic savings, and curtil
investment. Consequently, his administration put a ceiling on foreign debt
service and later stopped payments altogether. It instituted widespread
foreign exchange controls and increased protection. The Govemment also
raised the minimum wage, expanded credit and subsidies, decreased the value
added tax rate and lowered public sector prices. This strategy led to a high
fiscal deficit, financed by money creation. After 1987 the market lost
confidence, inflation rebounded and economic output and real wages declined
sharply. Economic mismanagement reached a climax in 1989-90 and was
reflected in hyperinflation.
1.3        During the first stage of its reform program, the Fujimori
government took dramatic steps to stabilize the economy and rebuild ties with
the international financial community. The main components aimed at
eliminating hyperinflation. A second stage of policy reform began in March
1991 and was based on a series of broad-based structural measures. These
reforms aimed at promoting competitiveness and deregulating economic
activity. The tax regime was simplified and trade was liberalized. Tax
administration was strengthened. Land property rights were broadened and
strengthened. The Government has also reduced the size of the public sector
and has continued to adjust public sector prices, while controlling public
sector wages.
1.4        The economic reforms are showing impressive results in some
areas. Inflation has moderated significantly to slightly less than 60 percent in
1992. The consolidated public sector fiscal deficit declined from 6.5 percent
of GDP in 1990 to 3 percent in 1992. Peru's trade regime is now one of the



- 2-
most open in Latin Amenca and foreign investment policies have been
liberalized. Many publicly-owned enteIprises have lost monopoly privileges
and the Govemment has established the legal and institutional basis for
privatization. An increase of 3.2 percent in GDP during the first 4 months
of 1993 may be a sign of the beginning of a sustained recovery.
1.5         The extent of poverty in Peru worsened during the stagation
of the economy and recent crisis. About half of the population is poor (i.e.
the value of total daily expenditures is less than the cost of a basic food
basket plus an estimate of non-food expenditures) and roughly a fifth are
extremely poor (i.e. the value of total daily expenditures is less than the cost
of a basic food basket).1
1.6         The achievement of broad-based growth is the first element of
the poverty alleviation strategy for Peru. The poor will gain in the long run
from the liberalization of the labor market, a wider distrioution of
employment opportunities, and agricultural reforms which would facilitate the
use of land as collateral, and improve registration and titling. The second
prong of the poverty alleviation strategy is investment in the human capital of
the poor in order to enable them to participate fully in the expanding
economy and benefit from it. This means increasing use of both health and
education services and improvements in the quality of those services. This is
a priority for the rural population, among whom the incidence of poverty is
high. Nearly half of the rural population living in the mountains are
extremely poor. Within these groups, mothers and children are at particular
risk.
2. BACKGROOJND ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Background
2.1         Health, Population and Nutrition. Peru faces serious health
and nutrition problems. The infant mortality rate of 53 (per 1000 live births)
is relatively high compared to other Latin American countries. Health
conditions vary widely widhin the country. The risk of infant death in the
southern mountainous region is more than three times that in Lima (100 vs.
'World Bank, Peru: Poverty Assessment and Social Policies and Programis for the Poor.
Report No. 11191-PE. May 5, 1993.



-3-
30 per 1000).2 Although fertlity has fallen from a total fertility rate (TFR)
of 5.3 in 1978 to 3.4 in 1990, the decline has been much less in rural areas.
Seleced data on health and demography, drawn mainly from the recent
ENDES survey, are in Annex 1.
2.2         A major share of morbidity and mortality could be prevented
by increased coverage of basic services such as prenatal care and attended
deliveries. The deterioration in sanitary conditions contributed to the 1991
cholera epidemic, the most serious outbreak in the Americas in this century.
Poor sanitation combined with poor weaning practices and lack of
immunization account for close to two-thirds of all child deaths and 50
percent of infant deaths. Perinatal mortality is also an important contributor
to infant mortality, maldng up about a third of infant deaths in 1990. The
limited access to family planning sevices in some areas leads to high fertlity
and short birth intervals, an important cause of maternal depletion and
subsequent maternal morbidity and low bith weight. Induced abortion, a
clear manifion of unwanted fertility, also contributes to maternal
mortality and morbidity. Complications of abortion account for 35 percent of
maternal morbidity in hospitals.
2.3         Levels of child malnutrition have not declined significantly
over the last two decades. Slightly over a third of children under the age of
five suffer from chronic malnutrition (short for age) and about ten percent
from global malnutrition (underweight for age). A small but critical share of
children (one percent) suffer from acute malnutrition (wasting). They have a
high risk of dying during episodes of acute wasting. Over half of rural
children are chronically malnoi -ihed, compared to 13 percent for Lima.
2.4         Child malnutition in Peru is attributable largely to growth
problems which occur during the weaning period. Peruvian children tend to
stop gaining in height and weight between 6 and 23 months. After age two,
they gain weight again so they are not thin for their height, but they remain
shorter than expected. Improvements in weight gain after age two suggest
that grovth is compromised more by inappropriate weaning practices than by
lack of food.
2.5         Organization. In Peru, the Ministry of Health is the main
provider of primary health care services. In theory, it covers the needs of
the roughly 60 percent of the population which is not covered by any other
health services. In practice, it reached only 26 percent of the population in
1984. The services provided by the social security system (Insituto Peruano
2EncuesU Demoarafica y de Salud Familiar 1991-1992, ENDES.



-4-
de Segurdad Socia  and the commercial private sector are significant only at
the teriary level (hospitals) and in major urba areas, particularly Lima.
The social security system covered 18 percent of the population in 1984, but
coverage declined to 9 percent in 1989. The private sector covered 18
percent, of which 12 percent was attributed to NGOs. NGOs mostly provide
preventive care services. Forty percent of NGO clients live in rural areas.
2.6         During the last decade, the Government's actions to
decentrize the management and provision of social services have undergone
numerous phases. Different administrations introduced their own hybrids of
decentralization, introducing changes in the functions to be decentalized and
in the geographic delineation of the regions. The concept was first introduced
in 1979 with a Constitutional amendment, later transformed into law ip 1985
(Ley de Base para la Regionalizacidn de 1985). At the beginning of the
Fujimori administration the Government was in the process of decentralizing
the management and financing of many public services, including health, to
the regions. Although previously the departmental health units (UDES) had
reported to the Ministry of Health, a decree promulgated in early 1990
reduced the Ministry's role in service delivery, focusing its activities instead
on policy, planning, technical assistance to the regions and quality assurance.
In spite of these changes, in most regions, the sub-regional directors of health
services continued to exercise most of the responsibility for managing the
health services and facilities in their areas.
2.7         Currently, for the purposes of health administration, the
country is divided into 12 regions (excluding Lima and its emvirons). The
regions are divided into 28 subregions or departmental health units (UDES),
one for each of the 24 departmelk.s and 4 for Lima. These are further
subdivided into provincial health units, or territorial health units (UTES), of
which there are 104. As mentioned above, public health administration
(personnel appointments, procurement, programming) takes place for the
most part at the sub-regional level. The sub-regional directors prepare
budget requests which are discussed and then consolidated into the global
budget for the region. The request is later submitted to the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. After approval of the budget, the financing for the
regions which comes from the Ministry of Economy and Finance is allocated
in a block to the region, and the share for health is then decided by the
regional authorities. Some national programs, including many relating to
maternal-child health care services (see para 2.9), are funded centrally by the
Ministry of Health. In some circumstances the Ministry of Finance also
allocates health expenditures directly (to hospitals, for example).
2.8          The Ministry of Health includes several offices which perform
advisory, support and monitoring functions in the areas of inspection;



- 5 -
planning; legal counsel; finance, investment and external cooperation;
epidemiology; administration; statistics and information; and
communications. There are also three General Directorates: Human Health
Services; Environmental Health; and Medication, Supplies and Drugs. There
are 16 national programs under the General Directorate for Human Health
including family planning, maternal-perinatal health, child growth and
development, control of diarrheal diseases, control of acute respiratory
infections, immunizations, control of iodine deficiency and control of
tuberculosis. For these programs money is transferred by the Ministry of
Health from its budget directly to the sub-regional health directors to support
certain specified activities (por encargo). The sub-regional health directors
are accountable to the Ministry of Health for how those resources are use4.
The Ministry of Heath also includes four institutes: the National Institute of
Health, Traditional Medicine, Environment and the National School of Public
Health.
2.9         Responsibility for nutrition is dispersed. The General
Directorate of Human Services provides guidance on the management of
health services, including prenatal and postnatal care, breastfeeding
promotion, diarrheal and respiratory infection management and child growth
monitonng. The National Institute of Health includes two nutrition-related
agencies: (1) the National Nutrition Institute (INN), responsible for scientific
research in nutrition and for the certification of the safety of commercial
foods for human consumption; and (2) the Institute for Food and Nutrition
(INAN), which coordinates the implementation of several direct food
assistance programs. Several non-governmental organizations are also active
in research and in the delivery of nutrition services.
2.10        Public Expenditures. The public resources available for
social services in Peru became scarcer with the sharp decline in overall
Government expenditures during 1985-1990. The decline is explained by
several factors, including the severe recession and the near diappearance of
the country's tax system - in 1989 tax revenues totaled only 4 percent of
GDP. By 1989-90 central government spending had dropped to less than 15
percent of GDP, low in comparison with other middle-income developing
countries. Social services were somewhat protected from the most severe
expenditure reductions. Nevertheless, because of the decline in overall
resource availability, Peru spends less than its neighbors in these areas. In
the case of health (excluding Social Security), its share of central government
expenditures has remained fairly stable at 4-5 percent since 1970, equivalent
to about 1 percent of GDP. Spending by the central government on health
stood at US$8 per capita in 1990. The economic stabilization and adjustment
program begun by the current Government in August 1990 has had a
significant effect on health services. Prices of imported inputs such as



- 6-
medicines and other supplies have increased dramatically. A program to
encourage voluntary lay-offs in the civil service attracted a large number of
staff of the Ministry of Health.
2.11        Mandate. The Ministry's mandate is to provide services to
those not covered by any other health care, namely, the nation's poor.
Despite its mandate, hospital-curative care and the Ministry's central
administration absorb 80 percent of its resources. Services are located mainly
in urban areas, leaving rural areas underattended. In recent years, the
Government has made efforts to reorient its services away from tertiary care
and to expand the primary health care network. However, ineffilcient
utlization of available resources is reflected in poor distribution of staff,
inadequate maintenance, and insufficient resources allocated to activities
which are the basis of preventive services: namely, health education and
community outreach. Shortages generally affect the more isolated facilities.
These tend to serve the rumral poor and indigenous groups, precisely those the
Ministry considers its priority populations.
2.12         nfrastructure and Equipment. The public primary health
care network has expanded over the last ten years. The number of health
centers increased by 60 percent and the number of health posts doubled
between 1980 and 1990. The geographic distribution of posts and centers is
less skewed toward urban areas than tertiary care facilities (84 percent of
hospitals are located in the Lima-Callao area). Currently about 1,000 health
centers and 3,000 health posts exist nationwide (about 1.9/10,000
inhabitants). However, many facilities are poorly equipped and maintained.
Some facilities have no electicity or running water. The equipment available
is often obsolete and/or defecdve. In 1990, one-quarter of all centers were
inoperative due to a lack of equipment. An assessment of the primary health
care services of the Ministry of Health noted that over half of aU centers
visited did not have a thermometer or other basic supplies such as surgical
gloves, and that steel drums for storage of surgical supplies were often
lacking.
2.13        Human Resources. The number of doctors and nurses in
Peru rose at an annual average rate of nearly 5 percent between 1985-1990,
exceeding the rate of population growth. However, the distribution of
professional resources is poor. While there are many more health posts and
centers than some years ago, as many as one-third of posts in some regions
are unstaffed, and as many as tre-quarters of centers lack a physician.
Health professionals are concentrated in urban areas because of several
factors, including the concentration of infiastructure in large urban areas;
weak personnel management; and the very difficult conditions in many
isolated rural areas. In 1990, thre-quarters of all physicians were based in



Lima. The shortages of physicians are greatest in the mountainous region,
where most of the indigenous population lives. Although the distribution of
nurses is less skewed (ust over half are located in Lima), there is a general
shortage of nursing staff. In 1990, there was less than one nurse (0.8) per
physician, when efficient staffing norms would call for at least 2 nurses per
physician. While it could be argued that the rapid growth of technical staff
(it increased seven-fold between 1985 and 1990) would reduce the
detrimental effects of the nurse shortage on the quality of services, the
majority of the staff holding technical positions have not received technical
training--they were promoted from auxiliary and manual positions to increase
their remuneration.
2.14        Existing staff are also poorly used because of the excessive
compartmentalization of the Ministry's programs. Staff are often assigned to
work in one program only (i.e. immunization, diarrheal diseases, etc.). They
are less than fully occupied, while other areas may be unattended. In all,
only one-third of Ministry of Health staff work in primary care. Finally,
health professionals who work for the public sector have been adversely
affected by the decline in real wages in the civil service. This has caused
morale problems and work stoppages, and has led to serious staff shortages
even at crucial times. A majority of Ministry of Health workers were on
stike for 4 months in the midst of the 1991 cholera epidemic.
2.15        In addition to the personnel located in health facilities,
community health workers provide some primary health services, particularly
in rural areas. These include a variety of health promotion agents in the
community, such as health promoters, traditional birlh attendants (midwives)
and child growth monitors. The common featres which make them
"community health workers' are that: (a) they have been identified and
selected by their communities; (b) they are active as health care providers in
the community; (c) they serve as advocates of their communities vis-a-vis the
formal health care system rather than as extension agents of the health care
system in the community; and (d) any compensation they receive is the
responsibility of the community to determine and provide.
2.16        Logstics and Pharmaceutical Supplies The provision of
public health services in Peru is seriously hampered by shortages of drugs
and by waste. The logistics system is poor and procurement inefficient.
Hospital and health center pharmaceutical oprations are managed separately
by the Ministry of Health. Drug purchases and distribution networks for
health centers and posts are managed at the provincial level, and serve the
immediate geographic area. Health centers estimate drug supply needs on a
monthly basis and send their requests to the Ministry's regional distribution
centers. The bidding process is conducted by the Ministry's central supply



system located in each regional office. Thus, although most drugs are brand-
name medications, they are not purchased in bulk for all public entities,
resulting in unnecessary red tape and reduced economies of scale.
2.17        Drugs are centrally stored by the Ministry and distributed to
regional offices; from there they are distributed to individual posts and
centers. Because the central office delays distribution until a sufflcient
number of orders have accumulated to justify shipment, needed supplies are
not tanwsported in a timely manner. Phannaceutical distribution centers and
outlets of public access, both public (hospital pharmacies) and private
(pharmacies, dispensaries and private hospitals), are concentrated in Lima.
B. Issues
2.18        Three important weaknesses in the provision of basic health
and nutrition services in Peru are:
(a)   the gaps in coverage of basic semces for mothers and
children, particularly in rural areas;
(b)   the poor quality of available servces for mothers and children,
pardcularly in rumral areas; and
(c)   inadequate attention to prevention, particularly with regard to
health and nutrition education and community outreach.
2.19        Coverage of Healih Services. Recent data show that the
coverage of many basic services is low and uneven. Although two-thirds of
pregnant women receive some prenatal care, the share falls to less than 50
percent in rural areas. As mentioned earlier, only half of all birts are
atended by professional staff. Coverage decreases to 20 percent in rural
areas. One-third of all births in rural areas are attended by family members
or no one at all. Data from the 1986 and 1991 ENDES also show that the
coverage of attended births has not increased in recent years; in fact, in
urban areas it has declined slightly. The Child Growth and Development
Program of the Ministry of Health has comprehensive and well-founded
objectives, but not the activities to achieve them. Use of modern
contaception is low, compared with the rest of South America. Only 33
percent of women aged 15-49 in a union were using a modem contraceptive
in 1991. In rural areas only 15 percent had access to modern contraception.



-9 -
2.20        Quality of Health Services. The quality of care provided in
government facilities is often inadequate. Quality of services is compromised
by several factors, including: detenorated equipment and infastructure and
shortages of drugs and supplies. For example, the coverage of tetanus toxoid
imrunization among pregnant women (at least two doses) is exemely low --
20 percent nationally and 14 percent in rural areas (ENDES, 1991). The
response to malnutrition relies excessively on food assistance with insufficient
attention to complementary health measures and micronutrient
supplementation. Often staff poviding services have not received sufflcient
tiing. The "graduation" of auxmiliary staff to technical positions with a
mere three-month training course has produced a cadre of unskldled staff who
frequently operate at a level beyond their capacity, and many health posts are
staffed only with technicians. Training is conducted in a traditional
classroom format and reference service manuals are in short supply. An
assessment found only 25 to 60 percent of centers had any service manuals.
Training is usually conducted in Spanish despite the fact that 45 percent of
the population (including a substantial number of technicians) in rural areas is
indigenous. This leads to poor comprehension and retention. The selection
of staff is also suboptimal, as health center professional staff rarely speak the
local languages. The general level of knowledge regarding diagnosis and
case management is also low. Workers perform even less adequately in
conducting counseling, giving physical examinatons and taking medical
histories. A survey of health center clients revealed that they regarded the
provider's ability to communicate with the patients as inadequate and often
negafive.
2.21        Health and Nutrition Education and Community Outreach.
Many of Peru's matenal and child health problems could be greatly
improved by providing adults, particularly mothers, with sufficient
information on how to promote their own health and the health of their
children. Currently the educational aspects of services, including
counselling, information, and promotion are weak or nonexistent. Primary
health care is based on prevention and relies on community awareness of the
benefits of various interventions. In the case of nutrition, there has been
insufficient attention to promotion of exclusive breastfeeding and child
growth and development monitoring. The population needs to be educated
and informed, either through mass media and/or individualy through
outreach efforts, regarding available interventions, i.e. demand for
preventive serices needs to be generated. The role of primary health care
staff is crucial in this endeavor. There must be frequent and open
communication between health care providers and users. Staff must be
prepared to inform. The Ministry has officially placed much importance on
community participation in its primary health care strategy. However,
linkages with the community are limited. Studies reveal there is little



- 10-
interaction with the community outside the health center. Health workers
reported almost no effort to educate community health workers or to
coordinate activities with them.
C. Government Strategy
2.22        Sluggish economic performance, particularly the recent crisis,
is one factor behind the poor health conditions in the country. Up until now
the macroeconomic stability, administrative framework and incentive
structure conducive to growth have been absent in Peru. The goal of the
reform program now being implemented by the Government is to lay the
basis for sustained growth. The first principle of the Government's poverty
alleviation strategy is that the economic stabilization and liberalization
program is the foundation for a reduction of poverty in the country. In the
medium and long-run the implementation of the reforms should reduce
poverty by providing more opportunity for tha poor to use their assets, such
as labor and land. The second principle of Peru's poverty alleviation strategy
is to improve the living conditions of the population in extreme poverty
through programs in the areas of food assistance, health, education and
employment generation. In that regard, the strategy recommends an increase
in the value and efficiency of social spending by the Government, in part
through a reallocation of expenditures, and a stronger orientation of programs
toward the poor. It also proposes close coordination with private agencies
and the provision of more responsibility to local government. The strategy
targets the extremely poor, in the case of health and nutrition the emphasis is
on children under three years of age, poor pregnant and lactating women,
and populations at risk of epidemics. The main targeting mechanism
recommended in the strategy is to focus activities on areas of the country
where the incidence of extreme poverty is high.
2.23        In health, the goal of the Government's poverty alleviation
strategy is to improve the attention and quality of primary-preventive services
in rural and marginal urban populations with a view to contributing to a
reduction of morbidity and mortality of infants and the protection of the
health of poor women. The main strategies include restoring a system for
monitoring the health status of children; encouraging the participation of
communities in preventive health activities such as promotion of adequate
diets; improving pre- and post-natal care and promoting breastfeeding; and
improving the quality and efficiency of services through training programs
for health personnel. In nutrition, the principal strategies include
rationalizing and improving food assistance programs so that they reach the



- 11 -
target population; increasing the nutritional standards of food assistance
programs; and carrying out education programs.
2.24       The poverty alleviation strategy demonstrates that the
Government of Peru recognizes that a principal cause of the high rates of
maternal and infnt mortality is poor access to family planning and prenatal
cae, and inadequate attention during and after childbirth. In order to
improve health stus in this area actions need to be taken to improve access
to safe birth practices, improve the quality and quantity of prenatal care,
increase access to modern contraception, and improve the nutritonal status of
children under three.
D. Bank Role and Strategy
2.25       In July 1991, the Bank approved the application to Peru of its
policy for lending to countries with protracted arrears. Under this policy
Peru agreed with the Bank and IM on an external financing plan, adopted
an iMP stabilization program and a Bank-supported adjustment program, and
continued making current debt service payments to the Bank. This policy
was successfully implemented and arrears with the Bank and IMF were
cleared in March 1993.
2.26       To assist the Government's efforts to enhance and deepen the
reforms undertaken during the period of reintegration, the main objectives of
Bank asitance to Peru are to: (a) sustain stabilization and consolidate
tructual refbrm; (b) foster private sector development and public sector
reform; (c) alleviate poverty and promote human resource development; and
(d) rehabilitate infrastructure and reform related policies. This project and
the sector work and other operations in the lending program in the area of
human resources are most closely related to the third objective. The Bank
has helped the Govemment formulate a two-part poverty alleviation strategy.
First, the Government is putting in place policies that encourage broad-based
economic growth. The Bank has been supporting this part of the straegy
through its adjustment loans. Second, the Government is seeldng to improve
basic services, especially basic health care, nutrition and primary education.
The emphasis is on improving living conditions and protecting the welfare of
the poor and ensuring that they are able to respond to employment
opportunities arsing from economic growth.
2.27        The Bank's planned sector work and lending program in
primary health, basic education and nutrition is consistent with these
priorities and with the government's poverty alleviation strategy.



- 12 -
Improvements in these services, together with a resumption of broad-based
economic growth, are critical to efforts to reduce poverty in Peru. The focus
in the proposed project is on increasing use by the poor of primay health
care services by improving access to services. This would be done by
enhancing their quality and generating demand for preventive services
through information, education, and communication (IEC) activities. The
project is designed to maximize impact by focusing on a limited number of
interventions klown to have a marked effect on matermal and child health,
such as appropriate prenatal and delivery care for mothers, micronutient
supplementation, child growth monitoring, and the promotion of exclusive
breastfeeding and appropriate wiaing practices. Given that the Govemment
has significantly expanded pnmary health care infrastructure in the past, the
project will focus primarily on the software of service delivery, i.e. training
for providers, information and education for potential and actual service
users, and outreach to insure a close worldng relationship with the
community and foster community participation in the project. The project
area encompasses rural and indigenous people among whom the incidence of
ectreme poverty is high. It also focuses on vulnerable groups such as
pregnant and lactating women, children and the chronically ill.
2.28        A loan to support Peru's socidal investment fund
(FONCODES), Ln. 3684-PE, approved in December 1993, provides
financing for labor-intensive projects primarily to rehabilitate economic and
social infastucture. The Bank would assist the management of
FONCODES to increase the poverty alleviation impact of the projects by
improving selection criteria and by strengthening systems for management
and supervsion. Sector reports in the areas of basic education and primary
health are being prepared which would identify additional prorty areas for
intervention. A proposed basic education project would support
improvements in the quality and internal efficiency of primary education. Its
components would include measures to increase the quality of teaching
through the provision of textbooks and teacher trining.
E. Rationale for Bank bnvolvement
2.29        The primary objective of Bank assistance to Peru in the area of
human resources is to assist the government to alleviate poverty by
supporting efforts to make available basic social services, particularly for the
poor, and to improve the impact and cost-effectiveness of social programs.
2.30        In keeping with the pnorities identified in the poverty
assessment and the government's poverty alleviation strategy, the project



- 13 -
would finance basic health and nutrition interventions targeted to the poor,
mainly in regions outside of Lima. It aims to increase the coverage of
prenatal care, attended births, access to family planning and child growth and
devlopment monitoring in order to improve the health status of the
population. It will help to protect vulnerable groups (poor women and
children) and should also improve the capacity of the population to benefit
from expanded economic opportunities. The impact of nutrition programs
should be enhanced by complementary programs to promote appropriate
health practices, as well as improvements in targeting.
F. Lessons Learned
2.31       In the area of health and nutrition, several reviews have
pointed out the importance of simple project design and the need for an
emphasis on monitoring and evaluation. One of the main lessons derived
from the 1983 Peru Primary Health Project (Loan 2211-PE), approved in
1983, is that project design should be easy to implement and that any changes
should be introduced gradually. Innovations should be introduced on a small
scale initially and generalized once the pilot test has succeeded. This project
aims to sreanmline the efforts of the Government and focuses on a few
integrated health and nutrition interventions. This approach is also
appropriate given the hiatus in Bank lending to Peru, which means that many
government officials are not familiar with Bank procedures. Activities would
begin in two of the four regions and will be introduced in the rest of the
project areas once implementation and logistics strategies have been tested.
The mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation were designed during project
preparation and costs are covered under the project. One lesson in
monitoring and evaluation from the Nutrition Development Project (Ln.
5757-IND) in Idonesia was that these procedures should be kept simple.
This is the approach used in this project. The emphasis is on collecting only
the most critical infonnation which is needed to track progress in reaching
the project's objectives and to guide management decisions.
2.32       A lesson of the Brazil Nutrition Resarch and Development
Project (Ln. 1302-BR) was that implementation could have been improved
by focusing project activities on ongoing government programs, instead of
creating new ones. This project would support several programs within the
Ministry of Health - for example, a child growth and monitonng program
and a breastfeeding promotion campaign. Thus the focus is on working to
make programs which exist more effective. The benefits of involving non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) in project design and implementation
have been highlighted by several reviews of social sector projects. In order



- 14 -
to promote strong partcipation at lower levels, regional government and
NGOs were incorporated into project preparation activities at an early stage.
2.33        Prior experience with the Primary Health (Ln. 2211-PE) and
Primar Education (Ln. 2465-PE) projects in Peru suggests the importance
of: (a) avoiding the creation of project units which duplicate units within the
sectors; and (b) defining responsibilities of regional staff. The project
integrates project management to the extent possible within the existing
structure of the Ministry of Health and regional govemments. One approach
which was suggested in the evaluation of the Populbtion and Family Health
Project (Ln. 1325-DR) in the Dominican Republic is to cover "hardware"
tasks (procurement, disbursements, accounting, etc.) in a separate project
management unit, but to integrate "software" (policies, management of health
programs, etc.) within the government structure. That approach has been
adopted in the case of this project. Regional staff have been involved in the
design of the project, including the definition of responsibilities, thereby
insuring their support. Persistent unavailability of counterpart funding was a
problem in earlier projects in Peru. The scope of this project was reduced
during project preparation, in part to reduce the demand on Govemment
resources.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1         The objective of the project is to improve health and
nutritional status in the project area, particularly among poor women and
children, by:
(a)   increasing use of matrnal and child health and nutrition
services by extending access and improving the quality of
services; and
(b)   promoting better health and nutrition practices, with an
emphasis on preventive care and education.
B. Project Area
3.2         The project area covers three regions, in addition to Lima -
Grau, Nor Oriental del Maraflon and Inka. In each of these regions several



- 15 -
provinces were selected within a department: the Department of Piura (Grau
Region); the Departnent of Cajamarca (Nor Oriental del Marafnon Region);
and the Department of Cuzco (Inka Region). In all, 15 provinces are
included in the project area, of which all but 2 are classified as "most
deprived" in the poverty map of Peru (1986, Central Reserve Bank of Peru).
The classification is based on a composite index of various socio-eonomic
variables. The other two provinces are classified as 'depnved". Most of the
populations are mountain communities which include a significant share of
indigenous people. According to a recent household survey (Peru Living
Standards Measurement Survey, 1991), the incidence of poverty in Peru is
highest by far in the rural mountainous areas. Two-thirds of the people
living there are poor and 47 percent of the total are extremely poor.3 The
incidence of poverty is also very high among the indigenous population.
Within Lima, the project covers the district of San Juan de Lurigancho. This
district is one of the poorest areas of Lima, and during the last five years has
experienced one of the most severe declines in per capita expenditures in the
city.' Each of the four areas of the project covers roughly the same
population (400,000). In total the population covered by the project is
estimated at 1.7 million, about 8 percent of Peru's total population of 22
million (See Annex 2). Most of the activities of the project, such as
improvements in the quality of maternal and child health care services
through the provision of equipment, medicine and supplies, would be
confined to the project area. However, the mass media component of the
infrmation, education and communications (IEC) program may extend
beyond the project area. During negotiations it was agreed that any changes
in the project area would need to be agreed with the Bank.
C. Project Components
NMaternal and Child Health (US$20.1 million, including contingencies)
3.3         The proposed project would support activities aimed at
increasing the use of maternal and child health care services by expanding
access and improving quality. The emphasis will be on preventive care in
reproductive health and the health of infants and young children. In addition
to strengthening activities such as the monitoring of pregnant women,
3Petu: Poverty Assesent and Social Policies and rgams for the Poo, Rept No.
li191-PE, May 5, 1993.
4-PoVefty and Inequality During Unorthodox AdjuStMent: lTh Cse of Peru, 1985-
1990,-by Paul Glewwe and Gillette Hall, Living Standards Meuremet Study Woring
Paper, No. 86 (February 1992), p. 19.



- 16 -
nutritonal surveillance of children and micronutient supplementation, more
demand for preventive services will be generated through an integrated
information, education and communications (IEC) component (para 3.16).
The training of staff at the various levels of delivery is an important part of
the IEC component and is also expected to contribute to improvements in
service quality.
3.4         Services to be supported under the project include: prenatal
and postnatal care; attended deliveries; family planning; chlorination of
community wells; immunizations; deparasitation; and treatment of acute
diarrheal illness and acute respiratory infections. All of these services are
currently being provided by health ficility staff, community health workers
or NGOs, although neither the quantity nor quality of services is adequate.
The protocols for all services to be supported under the project have been
agreed between the Bank and the Government and are described in detail in
Annex 3.
3.5         Services would be provided by professional and para-
professional staff in health centers and health posts, as well as by community
health workers, depending on the type of service and accessibility of the
population. Given the shortages of staff at many facilities in rural areas (para
2.14), it is expected that the bulk of preventive services would be provided
by community health workers with follow-up visits from health center staff.
Family planning services and educational activities would be conducted by
nurses and female technicians. Health center staff would develop closer links
with community health -workers to provide both training and follow-up
through regular supervision. In gencral, community health workers would
require one supervision every two months. Supervisory visits would
alernate between visits to the feld by health facility staff and visits to the
center by community health workers. When flly staffed, the personnel at
the health center include a physician, an obstetrical nurse, a nurse, a
sanitation technician, two nursing technicians and an administrative
technician. Health posts are staffed by a technician and occasionally by a
nurse.
3.6         The proposed project would finance basic medical equipment
for matemal and child health services to replace obsolete and non-functioning
equipment at about 60 health centers and 200 health posts and for roughly
2,200 community health workers. The project would also finance vehicles
for supervision; medicine, micronutrients and other supplies; computers;
office, printing and labortory equipment; and basic instructional materials
for health facilities. This would be complemented by financing for activities
to strengthen the capabilities of professional, para-professional and
community health workers in service delivery such as training, increased



- 17-
supervision of community health workers, technical assistance and
community outreach under the IEC component (para 3.16). In order to
ensure early attention to communiity outreach, in particular to regular contact
between health facility staff and community health workers, the requests for
equipment and inputs from health facilities would be accompanied by a
supervision plan for the community health workers in the area. Performance
would be monitored under tl' project. Also, the incremental operating costs
related to expaed supervision and other contact between health facility staff
and community health workers (per diems, fuel, etc.) would be eligible for
financing on a declining basis (para 4.12). As mentioned previously, many
health ficiities in rural areas are not fully stuaed. Outside of Lima, 55
percent of health centers in the project area do not have a physician and one-
third of health posts do not have either a nurse or a technician (See Annex
2). At negotiations, agreement was reached that for equipment and medicine
financed under the project to be used effectively, health facilities would only
be furnished with the equipment, medicine, and supplies which are
appropriate given their category as set by several criteria including staff
complement. If all the crteria are not met by a health facility, the inputs
agreed for a lower level of service would be more appropriate and would be
provided under the project. Lists of equipment, drugs and medical supplies
for different types of service providers were agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank dunng project preparation and confirmed during
negotiations. The project also would fund consultant services and studies
aimed at strengthening the delivery of maternal and child health services, and
pilots to test innovative strategies to accomplish that objective.
Nutrition (US$3.2 million, including contingencies)
3.7         The proposed project would support activities to improve the
nutritional status of young children in the project area, focusing on those
under 3 years of age. The aims are to reduce the prevalence, severity and
duration of child malnutrition and to improve micronutrient status. Most
activities would take place at the commuimty level using community health
workers and NoOs. To ensure the broadest possible coverage of project
interventions, NGOs working in project areas would have access to training,
growth monitoring equipment, micronutrient supplements and antihelminthics
through the project to reach their beneficiaries. This approach has been used
successfully by UNICEF in Peru.
3.8         The centerpiece of these efforts is an expansion of the
coverage of community-based child growth monitoring and close follow-up of
growth problems. A description of protocols for growth monitoring, which
would be trimesterly, and other nutrition interventions appears in Annex 3.
The project would build on the successful experiences in community-based



- 18-
growth monitoring of several NGOs in Peru. Since coverage and frequency
of contact of the existing child growth monitoring program is low in most
areas, special efforts would be needed at the begiunng to identify all children
under three, including through special campaigns. This would be reinforced
through supervision and training activities (para. 3.5-3.6). The aim would be
to cover at least 50 percent of all children under three in the project area by
the end of the project.
3.9        In rural areas, staff in health posts would monitor the work
going on at the community level. Each health post would supervise from
five to nine community health workers. In Lima, supervision of community
health workers would be the responsibility of health centers, each of which
would support about 30 community health workers. Initally, improved
community detection of malnutrition is expected to increase demand for
health services as malnourished children come in greater numbers for
exanination and treatment. However, current service production levels are
quite low and additional demand is not expected to tax existing capacity.
Health post and center staff would be trained and motivated under the project
to meet additional demand, primarily through IEC activities. In the medium
term, improved attention to child nutritional status at the community level is
expected to contribute to reduced levels of malnutrition and reduced demand
for health post and center follow-up.
3.10       The project would not finance additional food, first, because
child malnutrition is due primarily to inapprprate practices of breastfeeding,
weaning and infection management; and secondly, because substantial food
assistance programs already exist in Peru. Instead, the malnourished children
identified tirough the growth monitoring activities would be covered under
existing food assistance programs operating in the project areas. PANFAR,
the Feeding Program for High Risk Families (Progrwna de Alimentaclon y
Nutmcion para la Familia en Alto Riesgo), operates out of health centers and
posts, with food resources provided by USAID and with technical assistance
from the NGO PRISMA. Both institutions have ecpressed their willingness
to incorporate into the program beneficiaries identified under this project. In
fact, this action is expected to help improve the use of fool supplies now
programmed for distribution in the PANFAR project. In a . =cent review,
PRISMA found that actual PANFAR food distribution -,s 'elow planned
levels in all the project areas (40 percent below the plan in Lima Norte, 58
percent in Piura, 75 percent in Cuzco and 77 percent in Cajamarca).
3.11       The project would also coordinate with the Wawawasi project
for food assistance for pre-school children, funded by USAID and assisted by
the NGO CARE. In addition, the project would work with interested
municipal Glass of Milk (Vaso de Leche) committees by training them in



- 19 -
growth monitoring, and providing them with growth monitonng equipment
and other supplies, including vitamin A and iodine supplements and
antihelminthic medicines to distibute among their pre-school beneficiaries.
3.12        The project would support the distribution of antihelminthics
and vitamins and minerals in order to reduce micronutrient deficiencies,
especially among pregnant women and children. This would include iron,
folic acid, vitamin A and iodine. The benefits of prenatal iron and folic acid
supplementation of pregnant women are reduced maternal anemia, reduced
matermal and infant mortality, improved birthweight, reduced maternal
morbidity and protection of breastfed infants from infection. UNICEF
estimates that current levels of anemia in women of fertile age in Peru range
from 17-50 percent, depending on the area. The benefits of vitamin A
supplementation are reduced child mortality, improved child growth and
reductions in morbidity from respiratory disease and diarrhea. While data
for Peru are limited and somewhat dated, they suggest that between 50
percent (in Lima) and nearly 100 percent (in Piura) of households consume
less than half the recommended amount of vitamin A. Recent international
evidence that even subclinical vitamin A deficiency can contribute to child
mortality underscores the importance of this measure. The project would
support studies to determine the constraints to adequate vitamin A
consumption. The study results would feed into the EEC component. The
benefits of iodine supplementation are reductions in stillbirths, perinatal
deaths, cretnism, physical retardation and child morbidity, and
improvements in birthweights. A national survey in 1986/87 estimated that
seven million Peruvians were at risk of iodine deficiency disorders,
particularly in the mountainous region where diets have no natural sources of
iodine. Only 60 percent of the population now consumes iodized salt.
3.13       The project would finance equipment for child growth
monitonng, micronutrients and other supplies. It would also strengthen the
capabilities of professional, para-professional and community health workers
in nutrition through training, technical assistance and community outreach
activities under the EEC component (para. 3.16). It would also finance
operations research and studies in nutrition in four general areas: (a) the
skills and accuracy at the community and health establishment level in
recording and interpreting child weights and counseling mothers; (b) the
relative merits of alternative technologies for growth monitoring, including
digital scales, tall sticks, arm bracelets and bubble charts; (c) the
determinants of nutritional and micronutrient status (availability,
consumption, beliefs, practices), particularly in specific project areas; and (d)
the development of innovative strategies and programs (including pilot
projects) for strengthening maternal and child nutrition in rural areas with the
potential for cost-effective replication.



-20-
Tuberculosis Treatment (US$0.1 million, including contingencies)
3.14        Tuberculosis is a serious problem and Peru has made litde
progress in controlling it. The risk of infection, which generally ranges from
0.5 to 1.5 percent in South America, is 2 percent for Peru. Both the
incidence and the number of cases have grown substantially over the past
decade (from 93/100,000 in 1980 to 124/100,000 in 1989). This is more
than twice the rate for South America. Peru's situation is particularly
alaring since in many parts of the developing world tuberculosis is
declining at a rate of 1-2 percent each year. Left undiagnosed and untreated,
each pon with active tuberculosis will infiet on average between 10 and 14
others per year. Since the contagious period usually extends two years, each
case will lead to about 20-28 new infrctions. Exposure to the disease is very
high in urban areas in Peru. The most vulnerable are the poor because they
are more likey to be malnourished and malnutrition is an important risk
factor for infection.
3.15        Effective treatment of tuberculosis patients is handicapped by
the failure to recognize the symptoms of the disease at an early stage; to
monitor patients closely to ensure that they take medicines as long as
necessary; and to treat household contacts of patients prophylactically.
Individuals in close contact with patients who are particularly vulnerable (the
very young and the very old) also need to be tested for the disease and
household contacts under age five should be treated prophylactically. The
project would support a strengthening of several activities in order to reduce
the number of tuberculosis cases and to improve the effectiveness of
treatment. This would include financing: (a) trning in the detection and
treatment of the disease by community health workers and (b) testing
equipment and medicine for health centers. The project would also promote
the modification of eligibility cnteria for existing food assistance programs to
include tuberculosis patients and their families.
Information, Education and Communications (US$18.8 million, including
contingencies)
3.16        Educational activities and community outreach occupy a central
role in this project. During project preparation a commission made up of
Government, donor and non-governmental representatives developed a
National Plan for Breastfeeding and Weaning which defines training and
communications strategies to promote improved practices. Since existing
analysis indicated that there was also a lack of information and education
regarding other aspects of maternal and child health, the Government has
decided that the IEC strategy set out in the National Plan for Breastfeeding
and Weaning would be extended to support other project activities as well.



- 21 -
3.17        Taining. Given their strong interrelationship, training and
communications activities would be developed, implemented, and managed
together. The turng of health personnel would be conducted in stages
defined by increasing levels of complexity. The content of training would be
based on the functions to be performed at each level, and would be carefully
adapted to the educational level of the participants. The project emphasizes
training for community health workers and technical staff in health centers
and posts. Previous experience indicates that training of community health
workers, if well designed, can rtip substantial benefits. An evaluation of
training of traditional birth attendants in Peru found that the training
markedly improved their sldlls level and the satisfaction of their patients.
The objective would be to assist these workers to acquire the skills needed to
carry out their general responsibilities and to deliver information to potential
clients within the community and counsel clients on the relevant preventive
activity. For example, midwives require technical skills to perform
deliveries as well as some training for educational and promotional activities.
Other community health workers primarily need educational and promotional
skills. Both would reqwre one basic course and one refresher course per
year of about 5 days each. The needs for technical staff would be broadly
similar, although in some cases the subject matter would be slightly more
complex. The entry level would be determined by means of an individual
evaluation. Care would be taken to form groups with similar levels of
knowledge. The material retained from each training course would be
evaluated by means of a pre-and post-test. Training would be followed-up
through a combination of refresher courses and on-the-job training. Training
materials would be elaborated to serve as training guides and as reference
materials. The design and content of training materals would be denved
from careful research and testing of materials to ensure proper validation and
realism. Given that the population is predominantly indigenous in some of
the subregions, it is likely that some of the technical staff and most of the
community health workers will be unable to speak fluent Spanish. Thus,
care would be taken to develop some of the materials in the local language
and the training would be conducted in that language. Although most
training is expected to be organized by NGOs, health center staff would
assist in the taining of community health workers in order to promote
community outreach by the health facilites. Training for professional staff
in health centers and posts (doctors, obstetrical nurses and nurses) would
focus on areas directly related to IEC activities.
3.18        The strategy includes the use of mass media to disseminate
messages, community participation and inter-personal communication. The
campaign would also cover health professionals in order to ensure that they
reinforce the messages being presented in the IEC program. The project
would finance the services conted to develop and conduct the mass media



- 22 -
campaigns as well as the production and distribution of supporting printed
and audiovisual materials. It would also finance associated research and
impact studies.
3.19        Community Outreach and Participation. The success of ftis
project depends on effective community participation. Experience in Peru
with different models of community participation provides some lessons
which have been taken into account in the design of this project. In general,
most donors have found that NGOs are more effective in promoting
community participation than the Ministry of Health. A 1989 seminar of
NGO representatives working with communities in health found four
elements essential to successful experiences: (i) the community's perception
of a concrete benefit from participation; (ii) a strong educational component
and opportunity for increased learning for community members; (iii) support
from the project for organizing the community or for strengthening its
existing organizations; and (iv) development of strategies which place a high
priority on the community's own viewpoints and proposed solutions.
Another recent NGO seminar highlighted the importance of demand creation,
where communities demand the services and support they need from the
official health sector.
3.20        The project builds on these lessons. Most importantly, the
project would use the MEC component to market basic interventions and to
strengthen demand for them. The project would be flexible in the
mechanisms it employs for achieving objectives. For example, the project
would support child growth monitoring through community-run soup kitchens
(comedores), Glass of Milk (Vaso de Leche) committees or whichever other
organization the community chooses. Also, the project seeks the active
participation of NGOs in collaborating with communities.
3.21        The project would work in each community with a variety of
community health workers - health promoters, traditional birth attendants,
and child growth monitors. Rather than create" new health promoters or
birth attendants, the project would train and work with community members
who have been identified as health workers by the community and have been
active in these roles previously. During project preparation it was confirmed
that substantial numbers of community health workers are active in the
project area. In some localities associations even have been formed among
these individuals. CAR1TAS (the Catholic Church) alone has 1800 health
promoters nation-wide, all volunteers. Project inputs, such as equipment,
medicine and vitamin supplements, would be provided to the agents as
representatives of the community. Any compensation they receive would be
the responsibility of each community to determine and provide. During
negotiations it was agreed that a study evaluating the performance of



- 23 -
community health workers participating in the project would be carnied out
during the second half of 1996. The terms of reference for the study would
be agreed between the Bank and the Government.
Management and Evaluation (US$2.3 million, including contingencies)
3.22        Project Coordination. A project coordinator would be
located in the Office of External Cooperation of the Ministry of Health. The
terms of reference and professional qualifications for the project coordinator
were agreed between the Govemment and the Bank and a project coordinator
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank was appointed prior to
negotiations. That individual would oversee day-to-day implementation and
monitoring of the project and would make frequent visits to the regions. in
particular, s/he would ensure the timely availability of financing for all
project activities, particularly the transfer of adequate resources to the four
sub-regional directors. S/he would be responsible for preparing an
operational manual to be transmitted for review by the Bank no later than
March 31, 1994. S/he would ensure that the procedures outlined in the
operations manual and agreed between the Government and the Bank, are
followed during project implementation.
3.23        Project Steering Committee. In order to ensure that the
project is well integrated and coordinated with related activities of the
Ministry of Health and in the sub-regions, a Projet Steering Committee
would be formed. This Committee would meet twice a year to monitor
project activities and to provide advice. The members of the Project Steering
Committee would include a representative of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Directors of the Offices of Human Health, Planning,
External Cooperation and Communications in the Ministry of Health, as well
as the sub-regional directors of health services and the project coordinator.
For each meeting, the project coordinator would prepare an agenda. S/he
would also prepare reports and other information as requested by the
chairman or any other member of the Committee.
3.24        IEC Mnagement. A team under the project coordinator
would manage the IEC component of the project. This is necessary given the
expected volume of activity including the high number of contracting
agencies, and the specalimzed expertise required in the areas of
communications management, research and training. The team would consist
of three individuals, an IEC manager and two technical staff, one responsible
for research and the other for education/training. The IEC manager would
be a communications expert with experience in planning and managing a
communications program, including suprvising large contracts. S/he would
need to be capable of judging the quality of the messages and dissemination



- 24 -
methods. S/he would be responsible for ensuring not only the necessary
linkges among various IEC activities, but also the linkages among the IEC
program and other project activities and the Ministry of Health. S/he would
liaise closely with and advise the project coordinator. The person responsible
for research would ensure the adequate scope and quality of the research
necessary to design messages, validate materials and evaluate results. The
person responsible for education would organize and supervise the substantial
taining programs envisaged under the project, including both the activities
directly related to IEC and those related to ensuring basic competencies of
community and technical staff. S/he also would be responsible for evaluating
the educational effectiveness of IEC materials and training practices.
During negotiations, the draft terms of reference and the necessary
qualifications for the three members of the IEC management team were
discussed and agreed between the Bank and the Government. As a condition
of effectiveness, an IEC management team, acceptable to the Bank,
would be employed. During negotiations, the Goverment agreed that a
taining strategy and indicative plan for 1994-1999 would be prepared by the
person responsible for education in the IEC management team, in
consultation with the sub-regional directors and the project coordinator, for
review by the Bank no later an June 30, 1994. A list of the principal
functions and reponsibilities of the project coordinator, the IEC team and the
sub-regional directors appears in Annex 4.
3.25        The lEC unit would work with the Communications Offlice of
the Ministry of Health. Selected staff of the office would be assigned to the
IEC unit at an assistant level in order to benefit from the knowledge of the
three consultants. More formal training courses would also be finances for
the staff in this office in order to improve their communications expertise as
well as their capacity to manage large, technical contas with private
agencies. ITe commission on communications strategy orgmized by the
Government, which played a key role in the development of the IEC strategy
for breastfeeding and weaning, would continue to function as an advisory
committee to the EEC management team.
3.26        Most IEC activities are expected to be contracted out to a
variety of agencies, including pnvate companies and NGOs. Executing
agencies would be required in four main areas: research, management of
messages, production of messages and administration. They would be
responsible for coordinating regional activities with the sub-regional directors
of health services.
3.27        Work Progams and Budgets. Beginning in 1994, by
September 1 of each year, each sub-regional director would prepare a work
program and budget for the following year. The work program would



- 25 -
include planned procurement for equipment, drugs and supplies.  Also,
beginning in 1994, by September 1 of each year the IEC manager would be
responsible for preparing the projected IEC work program and budget for the
following year. This would include anticipated training activities. The
project coordinator would assist in the preparation of these work programs,
and would consolidate them into the oveall work program for thfe project.
The resulting annual work program for the project would be reviewed by the
Project Steering Committee before submission to the Bank for approval by no
later than November 1 of each year, beginning in 1994. The draft work
program and budget for the first year of project implementation (1994) were
discussed at negotiations and are expected to be agreed between the Bank and
the Government no later than end of January 1994.
3.28        The proposed project would finance costs related to its
management. These would include, at the level of the sub-regional directors
of health services, assistance by staff for technical matters, administrative
tasks, such as accounting and contcting, office equipment and operating
costs. It would cover the salaries of the Project Coordinator and tbe IEC
management team as well as short-term consultancy services, as needed. In
the case of the office of the Project Coordinator, the project would cover
costs of assistance by staff for administrative tasks, such as accounting, and
for technical matters. For both the office of the Project Coordinator and the
EC management team, the project would finance office equipment and
operang costs.
3.29        Monitoring and Evaluation. Beginning in 1995, by April of
each year the project coordinator would prepare a monitoring report which
would compare project implementation for the previous year against the
approved annual work program. This report would be provided to the
Project Steering Committee, as well as to the Bank. The Project Coordinator
also would be responsible for preparing an assessment of project performance
once a year against a set of key indicators including supply and coverage of
services and outreach and education activities. The Government and the
Bank agreed during negotiations on the list of indicators and the mechanisms
for data collection for each indicator (Annex 5). Data on most of the service
indicators would be generated by community health workers and would be
consolidated during periodic (six times a year) supervision by the health
facility staff (para. 3.5). To that information would be added services
provided at health facilities, generally to be extracted from an existing
information system.
3.30        Project impact would be assessed shortly before the end of the
project. The means of assessment would be a survey instrument to be
applied at the beginning of the project to obtain baseline information, as well



- 26 -
as during the fifth year of implementation. The survey would measure
project outcomes using the key impact indicators (Annex 5) and additional
information on the coverage and quality of care. Coverage and quality would
be assessed at both the institutional and at the community level. The surveys
would include modules focusing on users and providers. The user module
would be employed to assess health status (including nutrition) and the
coverage and quality of care, and measure the population's knowledge
rgarding adequate health practices. The provider module would assess
knowledge in order to guide the development of training materials and
courses, and evaluate the quality of care. The surveys would also examine
the provider's reladonship with the community, to determine, for example, if
community work is becoming an important component of service delivery.
Some intermediate variables such as coverage of specific services (i.e.
number of pregnant women receiving four prenatl visits, number of women
receiving two tetanus toxoid applications, etc.) which are too complicated to
be collected on a routine basis would also be included in the surveys.
Training evaluation would be done sepamtely, immediately following each
course. Some funds would be available for special studies to examine
specific issues such as follow-up of recovered malnourished children to see
how they fare. At negotations, agreement was reached with the Govemment
on the content, timing and financing of the baseline and the subsequent
survey.
D. Project -Iplementation
3.31        Responsibility for implementing the project would rest with the
four sub-regional directors of health services of the project areas. At
negotations the Bank received assurance from the Government that no
change in the responsibilities for project implementation would be made
without prior discussion and agreement with the Bank.
3.32        Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). At least
250 NGOs work in health and nutrition research, training, technical
assistance and service provision in Peru. About 60 NGOs are active in the
project area in directly providing health services, trining community health
workers and providing technical assistance.
3.33        It is anticipated that NGOs would carry out many activities to
be supported under the project, given their wide experience and current work
with the Ministry of Health. Discussions were held with NGOs during
project preparation. NGOs are most likely to be involved in: (a) providing
technical assistance; (b) delivering primary health services where the
Government functions only partially or not at all; (c) training health facility
staff and community health workers; (d) distributing nutrient supplements and



- 27 -
antihelminthics; and (e) carrying out operations research, pilot projects and
studies. It is estimated that NGOs would execute the following percentages
of project activities: 75 percent for training, national consultancies and
studies; 20 percent for provision of health and nutrition serices; and 40
percent for EEC.
3.34       The participation of NGOs would be arranged through service
contracts and cooperative agreements. Both would be eligible for financing
under the project. Service contracts would be used when the Ministry of
Health provides financing to an NGO in exchange for carrying out a project
activity. This model would be appropriate when, for example, the project
hires and funds an NGO to provide growth monitoring training to health
professionals or to develop materials for training community workers.
Cooperative agreements would be used when the Ministry of Health and the
NGO use their respective resources to support different components under the
project, for example, when the Ministry and the NGO are both promoting the
role of traditional birth attendants - the NGO through identification and
traning of village women and the Ministry through supply and supervision
by the obstetric nurse. Cooperative agreements would also be used when the
project provides supplies such as vitamin supplements, weighing materials
and antiheminthics to the NGO and the NGO agrees to provide them to a
particular target population as well as to meet project reporting requirements.
3.35       Agreements for NGO participation would be signed at either
the national or subregional level, depending on the size of the agreement.
Project agreements with NGOs will normally be for one year and will
incorporate terms for extension. Multi-year agreements would be supported
by subsidiary annual agreements confirming resource and activity
commitments. Any agreement with an annual value of more than $100,000
or a value of more than $250,000 over the life of the project would be signed
by the project coordinator. The sub-regional directors of health services
would have authority to approve annual agreements with a total value of less
than $100,000 or multi-year agreements with a total value over the life of the
project of less than $250,000.
3.36       During negotiations the Bank and the Government agreed on
models of service contracts, cooperative agreements and the request for
proposals. Selection would be based on clearly established cnteria for
eligibility and evaluation of submitted proposals agreed between the Bank and
the Government during negotiations (Annex 6). Each proposal would be
required to specify the mechanisms which would be used for monitoring and
evaluation.



- 28 -
3.37       Lending Arrangements. The proceeds of the Loan (US$34.0
million equivalent) would be made to the Republic of Peru, which would pass
on the total proceeds to the Ministry of Health. Funds would be tansferred
to the sub-regions through the Ministry of Health budget using the same
mechanism (por encargo) that is now used to trnsfer funds for nationally-
funded programs (para. 2.8). Under these arrangements the sub-regions must
use the funds only for the purposes specified, and must account for their use
to the Ministry of Health.
3.38       ImplementatIon Schedule. The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of six years, beginning in February 1994, and
ending by December 31, 1999. The closing date would be June 30, 2000.
The cost schedules prepared for the various components (Annex 7) and the
annual work programs would be the basis for project implementation
planning.
3.39       A Mid-Term Review of the project would be carried out
jointly by the Bank and the Govenment by mid-1997. In addition to
performance measured by the indicators listed in Annex F, the nutrition
studies (pam 3.13) and the evaluation of the performance of the community
workers (para 3.21) would be discussed. The previous monitoring reports
prepared by the Project Coordinator (para. 3.29) would be reviewed. In
order to obtain information on the quantity and quality of activities being
provided in health facilities and by community health workers and the extent
of community outreach by health facility staff, small-scale surveys would be
carried out in late 1996/early 1997 in several representative communities.
The surveys would focus on a few critical services supported by the project
such as prenatal care and child growth monitoring. The data from these
surveys would be discussed during the Mid-Term Review. It is expected that
the Project Steering Committee as well as the advisory commission for IEC
would participate in the review. Based on the results of the Mid-Term
Review the Government and the Bank would agree on an action plan with the
aim of improving project performance.
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DlSBURSEMENT
4.1         Total project costs are estimated at US$44.5 million, including
taxes and duties and physical and price contingencies. Foreign exchange
costs of US$20.0 million amount to about 45 percent of total project costs.
Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by category of expenditure
and by project component. Detailed costs are presented in Annex 7.



- 29 -
4.2         Base Costs and Contingencies. Base costs are expressed in
June 1993 prices, and include taxes and duties. For the main items to be
financed under the project, these prices were confirmed at the time of
negotiations (November 1993). Equipment costs were based on prices for
similar imported or locally available items. Domestic training and costs of
foreign and local consultants were based on currently prevailing costs of such
services. Operating costs were based on current estimates of salanes and
operating requirements. Total contingencies of $4.7 million represent
11 percent of base costs. Physical contingencies were applied as follows:
5 percent for equipment and 10 percent for communication services. No
physical contingencies were applied to consultant services or training
programs. For all components of the project price contingencies averaging
3.2 percent per annum were used. This is the expected rate of increase for
international prices for the period 1993-1999. This rate of price increase was
used for both foreign and local cost components of the project because it is
expected that devaluation of the new sol (local currency) would compensate
for differences between US dollar and local currency inflation rates.
4.3         Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are
estimated at about US$20.0 million, including contingencies. Based on Bank
expeience with similar projects in the region, the foreign exchange
component for the major categones was estimated as follows: (i) equipment
- 50 percent; (ii) drugs and medical supplies- 80 percent; (iii)instructional
materials and operating costs -20 percent; (iv) training - 10 percent; (v)
technical assistance -- 30 percent; and (vi) communication services -75
percent.



- 30-
TAIBLE 4.1
Peru
Basic Hcaft and Nutition Project
Cost by Summary Accounts
-___- ________________                  (USS  m ion)       |      %   Total
..~~~ ~ :                            -  :V  -                T.~~ :---_ _ _ __ _
LOWa   ftI         Tow@p    %Port gn   %Base
,_ _   _  _  _  _ _ _  _  _  _ ----  .z                          Mi g .      jx  Costs
I. JNVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Vehicles            3.9       3.9    7.8        50       20
B. Instructional Materials and Fumiture  1.1   0.3    1.4        20       4
C. Training                          7.5       0.9    8.4        10       20
D. Technical Assistance              2.8       1.2    4.0        30       10
E. Commnuicadons Services            1.4       3.6    5.0        75       13
Total INVESTMENT COS1S               16.7      9.9   26.6        40       67
Hl. RECURRBT_ co
A. Drugs and Mdical Supplies         1.6       6.6    8.2        80       20
B.Opaating and Manenanc Costa        4.0       1.0    5.0        20       13
Tota RECURRENT COSTS                 5.6       7.6   13.2        60       33
Total PROJECT COST3                 24.7      19.8   44.5        45
E~~~ - L   -



- 31 -
Table 4.2
Peru
Basic Health and Nutrition Project
Cost Sununary by Components
|USS miion              %Totat
Lo.al   Forci     Totl   % Foreign    Base
._ . ._'_,_ _ _ __  _  _          .  _  _              Exchag     Costa
A. Matemal and Child Health    8.0    10.0   18.0         56      45.2
B. Nutrition                1.7        1.1    2.8         40       7.0
C. Tuberculosis             0.1        0.0    0.1         48       0.3
D. IEC                     11.0        5.8   16.8         35      42.2
E. Management and Evaluation    1.5    0.6    2.1         30       5.3
Totl MSEW4A E COS1S        22.3       17.5   39.8         44     100.0
Physical Contingencies   0.4        0.6    1.0         60       2.5
Price Contingencies      2.0        1.7    3.7         50       9.3
Total PROJECT COSTS        24.7       19.8   44.5         45    _
(of which, taxes)           4.3               4.3
TABLE 4.3
Peru
Basic Health and Nutition Project
Fmancing Plan by Disbursement Category
USS million
A. Equipment and Vehicles    5.4    65.0       2.9    35.0        8.3    18.7
B. Instructonal Materials    1.0    80.0       0.2    20.0        1.2    2.7
C. Taining                   9.1   100.0       0.0      0.0       9.1   20.4
D. Communications Services   5.0    80.0       1.2    20.0        6.2    13.9
E. Technical Assistance      4.1    100.0      0        0         4.1    9.2
P. Drugs, Supplies, Op       9.3    60.0       6.1    40.0       15.4   34.7
G. Puniture                  .1    80.0        0.1    20.0        .2      .4
Total Disbursements         34.0    76.0       10.5    24.0      44.5   100.0



- 32 -
Finaning
4.4         The proposed Bank loan is US$34.0 million (80 percent of
total estimated cost including taxes or 85 percent, excluding taxes). The
Bank loan will finance about 95 percent of foreign exchange costs and 60
percent of local expenditures. The Government's financing of a small
amount of foreign exchange costs (US$1 million ) is for the foreign exchange
component of recurrent expenditures (drugs, medical supplies and operating
and maintenance costs) for which the share financed by the Bank gradually
declines to 20 percent by the end of the project. The financing of local costs
under the project is justified by the fact that this is a project targeted to areas
of the country where the incidence of extreme poverty is high. The financing
plan is presented in Table 4.3. Counterpart funding requirements would be
met by the Government.
4.5         Recurrent Costs. The expansion in coverage of maternal and
child health services and nutrition services will rely on existing personnel
(both community health workers and professionals) and existing
infrastructure. Professional staff and health infrastructure are severely under-
used in Peru, in part because of the public's perception of the low quality of
services, the lack of supplies and equipment and the absence of sufficient
community out reach. The only salaries to be financed by the project would
be for a relatively small number of staff to assist in project astration.
Thus the incremental annual recurrent expenditures required when the
program is in full operation are likely to be small (roughly US$1 million),
consstig mainly of consumables (drugs and supplies) for the anticipated
higher quality and level of service delivery. Drugs, supplies and operating
and maintenance costs would be financed by the Bank at decreasing rMt&s.
For drugs and supplies the rate would be 80 percent up to an aegte
disbursed amount of $2,600,000 equivalent; thereafter 70 percent up to an
aggregate disbursed amount of $4,600,000 equivalent; thereafter, 50 percent
up to an aggregate disbursed amount of $5,300,000 equivalent; and 20
percent thereafter. For incremental operating costs, the rate would be 80
percent up to an aggregate disbursed amount of $1,500,000 equivalent;
thereafter 70 percent up to an aggregate disbursed amount of $2,800,000
equivalent; thereafter, 50 percent up to an aegate disbursed amount of
$3,300,000 equivalent; and 20 percent thereafter. Over the longer term, the
Bank plans to work with the Government in the context of sector work and
future lending in areas that would contribute to sustainability such as cost
recovery and altenative mechanisms for service delivery in rural areas.



- 33 -
Procurement
4.6         The Government would follow Bank procurement guidelines
and procedures for the proposed project. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report prepared by the Bank in September 1991 noted that the
laws and decree governing the procurement procedures followed by the
public sector were in broad conformity with the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. In addition, the annual budget law provides that goods and
works financed by international financial institutions will be procured in
accordance with the requirements of these institutions.
4.7         Goods. The total cost of equipment, insructional materials,
furnlure, drugs, and medical supplies is estimated at about US$20.0
million, including contingencies. The minor medical equipment, drugs and
medical supplies to be procured under the project, estimated to total US$13.0
million, are basic equipment, medicines and supplies which need to be pre-
packaged in sets for use in health centers and posts and in communities.
They would be procured from one or more specialized international
organizations. This procurement procedure is justified because Peru does not
have, at present, the capacity to package these items for domestic distribution
and this deficiency curtails the country's access to economies accruing from
bulk purchases. During negotiations it was agreed that as soon as the
Ministry of Health selects any specialized international agency for direct
contracting of goods, the Ministry of Health would forward a copy of the
proposed agreement governing this arrangement to the Bank for its no-
objection.
4.8         For goods other than drugs and medical equipment and
supplies, estimated to total US$15.4 million, the following procurement
arrangements would apply. In the case of vehicles, estimated to total about
US$1 million5, given the need for maintenance in different parts of the
country, procurement would be handled through limited intemational bidding
(LIB) from among manufacturers who have established dealerships capable of
providing services in Peru. It is estimated that other goods totalling about
US$1.3 milion (mainly office and electric generating equipment) would be
grouped into packages of US$200,000 or more and procured through
international competitive bidding ([CB) procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines and using the standard bidding documents of the Bank. Where
ICB procedures are used, goods manufactured locally would be given a
preference margin of 15 percent or the value of the applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower. The remainder of goods, including instructional
5Comprising motorcycles for health posts and 4-wheel drve vehicles for health centers,
in both cases for facilities outside of Lina.



- 34 -
materials, furniture and consumables would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) or local shopping (by inviting at least three
quotations) because they are of diverse categories and would be procured in
small packages. Contracts estimated to cost at least US$25,000, but less than
US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million, may be awarded
in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Conucts for other goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.6 million may be
procured by procedures of local/international shopping acceptable to the
Bank. iUsts of equipment, drugs and medical supplies for different types of
service providers were agreed between the Government and the Bank dunng
project preparation and confirmed during negotiations.
4.9         Services. In the case of Communications services (estimated
to cost about US$6.3 million) encompassing the development, production and
distribution of printed and audiovisual and education materials; and design
and execution of mass media campaigns, a two-step ICB procedure will be
employed for the major contract for mass media services (expected to total
about US$2.5 million). In the first stage, bidders would be invited to submit
technical proposals on the basis of performance specifications and output
requirements. Then, bidders whose proposals are judged to meet the
m{inimum qualification criteria, would be invited to correct any shortcomings
identified in their proposals, so as to permit all technical proposals to meet
the same requirements. In the second stage, bidders would be invited to
submit technically adjusted and priced bids. The award of the contract would
be based on compliance with the adjusted design/production specifications
and price. Given the requirements of an effective IEC program, this would
be a long-term contract providing for price adjustment based on an
appropriate formula. Other IEC services (research studies, preparation of
educational mateials, etc.) as well as services in other components of the
project, would be procured through small contracts with non-governmental
organizations, individual consultants, and firms following the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.10       The aforementioned procurement arrangements are summarized
in Table 4.4. Prior Bank review would be required for all goods contracts
awarded through ICB, LIB and those exceeding US$200,000, which is
expected to ensure a coverage of at least 50 percent of Bank-financed
contracts. The bidding documents for the first contract under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures also would be subject to prior review
by the Bank. Other contracts and bid evaluations would be subject to
selective post-award review by Bank staff. The terms of reference for all
consultancy contracts would be reviewed ex-ante by the Bank. All
consultancy contracts would also be subject to prior review by the Bank, with



- 35 -
the following exception. Contracts with firms not exceeding US$100,000
per contract (estimated to total about US$800,000) would be subject to ex-
post review by the Bank, covering at least one contract in five, selected at
random.
Table 4.4
Suumuasy of Proposed Procuresut Afraugmuesit
___________________ (13am million)
_______  Procurement Method
Cateuorv of BWmenditure                         ICB                                         Total Costa
1. Medical Equipment                                                               4.0e             4.0
______________________________________       __________    ___________             (2.3)            (2.3)
2. Non-Medical Equipment and Furniture
1.3           1.1              1.5S1            3.9
(0-8)         (0.6)            (1.1)             (2.5)
3. Vehicles                                                                        1.14             1.1
I________                             (0.7)            (0.7)
4. Instutional Materials                                          0.9              0.4'             1.3
__________          (0-7)             (0.3)            (1.0)
S. Training                                                                        9.14             9.1
(91.)            (9.1)
6. Technical Assistance                                                            4.1e             4.1
(4.1)            (4.1)
7. CommunicationsServices                          2.50                            3.80             6.3
(2.0)            .             (3.0)             (5.0)
8. Dnrgs and Medical
Supplies                                                                         9.0              9.0
(5.6)            (5.6)
9. Operating and Maintenance Costs                                3.0              2.78             5.7
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _______        (2.0)            (1.7)            (3.7)
TOTAL                                              3               0              35.7             44.5
:_________________________                (1.8)         (3.3)           (27.9)            (34.0)
a) To be procured from the stocks of one or more specialized intenational oranizaons.
b) Local shopping on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers.
c) Limited International Bidding
d) Reimbursement of expenditures for trining including tavel and per diems, course development and post
evaluations.
e) Contracting of consultants and auditors in accordance with Bank Guidelines (August 1981).
f) The major contract (estimated to total $2.5 million) would be let in a two-stage ICB process.
g) Includes consumables.
Note: All amouns  cude price and
physcal contingencies. Numbers in parenteses are the respective mounts financed by the Dankl



- 36-
Disbursments
4.11       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of
six years, based on a combination of relevant standard disbursement profiles
for similar countries in the LAC region. The disbursement profile also takes
into account the fact that there are no civil works in the project.
4.12        Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 2000
(The Closing Date), and would be made against the following categories of
expenditures covering the activities to be financed under the proposed
project: (i) equipment (medical and non-medical equipment and vehicles) -
65 percent of total exenditures; (ii) instructional materials and funniture -
80 percent of total expenditures; (iii) training and technical assistance -- 100
percent of total expenditures; and (iv) communications services -- 80 percent
of total expenditures (v) drugs and medical supplies (bandages, needles, etc.)
- on a declining basis: 80 percent up to an aggregate disbursed amount of
US$2,600,000 equivalent; thereafter 70 percent up to an aggregate amount of
US$4,600,000 equivalent; thereafter, 50 percent up to an aggregate disbursed
amount of US$5,300,000 equivalent; and 20 percent thereafter; and (vi)
operating and maintenance costs (including consumables, mostly office
naterials)- also on a declining basis -- 80 percent up to an aggregate
disbursed amount of US$1,500,000 equivalent; thereafter, 70 percent up to
an aggregate disbursed amount of US$2,800,000 equivalent; thereafter, 50
percent up to an aggregate disbursed amount of US$3,300,000 equivalent;
and 20 percent therefter.
4.13       The timely delivery of goods to the localities where they are
needed is crucial to the success of the project. During negotiations
agreement was reached between the Bank and the Govemment that the
Ministry of Health would at all times during the execution of the project have
suitable arrangements in place with one or more transportation companies to
provide such distribution, the cost of which could be financed by the
Government. Alternatively, delivery of goods to the project areas could be
specified in the procurement documents. Receipt from the Government of
evidence of appropriate arrangements for delivery of goods procured
under the project, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of disbursement
for the expenditure category of drugs and medical supplies.
4.14       Documentation of Expenditures. Withdrawal applications for
goods with a contract value of US$200,000 or more and for services with a
contract value of US$100,000 or more, would be supported by full
documentation. Contracts below US$200,000 for goods and US$100,000 for
services and other disbursements against activities not undertaken by contract
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which



- 37-
supporting documentation would be maintained by the Ministry of Health and
would be made available for Bank staff review. A Special Account would be
opened in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, with an initial deposit
of US$1.0 million equivalent. This corresponds to about three months of
expenditures required under the project after excluding anticipated direct
payments to specialized international agencies for medical equipment and
supplies and drugs.
Thiancial Reporting and Auditing
4.15        The Ministry of Health would keep separate accounts for
project expenditures in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. The accounts would show expenditures for each project
component, subdivided by expenditures financed by the Bank and the
Government. All project accounts (including the Special Accounts) and all
disbursements against SOEs would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's auditing
guidelines. The terms of reference for audit also would be acceptable to the
Bank. The Government would submit to the Bank the audit reports of
expenditure within six months of the closure of the fiscal year. Assurances
were received at negotiations that the Government of Peru would comply
with these requirements.
4.16        The Ministry of Health would also submit to the Bank a final
report on implementation experience and project outcome (Project
Completion Report) within six months of the closing date of the proposed
project. Assurances were received at negotiations that the Government of
Peru would comply with these requirements.
S. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefis
5.1         The demand for key preventive services and better health
practices will be promoted through the EEC campaign. The resulting changes
in behavior and increased demand, combined with the greater access by the
population in the project area to basic health and nutrition services and
improvements in the quality of those services, should improve health and
nutrition status in the project area. Also, the project would promote policy
and program changes that would improve the effectiveness of primary health
and nutrition services by supporting research and other analysis.



- 38 -
Risks
5.2         The main risk is that implementation by the Government will
be weak. This risk is addressed in two ways. First, the project focuses on a
small number of programs most critical for the poor, thereby reducing the
number of activities to be managed. This is also appropriate since many
Government officials are not familiar with Bank procedures given the recent
hiatus in lending to Peru. The project is not supporting new programs, but
concentrates on strengthening activities which are currently being
implemented by either the Ministry of Health or NGOs. In addition, the
project envisages the use of experienced NGOs to supplement the
Government's capacity, and steps have been taken to facilitate their
participation.
5.3         A second risk is posed by the possibility that the Government
may revise the process of decentralization of health services during project
implementation. The project addresses this risk by channelling project
financing through the central government (instead of directly to regional
governments whose status may change). In addition, any change in the locus
of implementation responsibility for the project from the sub-regional
directors of health services would have to be acceptable to the Bank (para
3.31).
5.4         A third risk is the history of poor outreach by public health
cilities, both to the population and to community health workers. The
project focuses on this aspect by funding the incremental recurrent costs of
increased supervision on a declining basis, monitoring outreach closely
during project implementation and promoting changes in attitudes and
practices through an integrated JEC campaign.
5.5         A deterioration in the security situation in Peru is a risk to all
projects in the country. The project would be located in areas of the country
which are not classified as emergency zones. The selection of these sites will
be kept under review and would be subject to change depending on security
conditions in Peru.
Environmental Impact
5.6         Since it deals mainly with the purchase of equipment and
supplies, training, and capacity building, the project is not expected to have
any significant environmental impact.



- 39 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
6.1         Atlnegoiians, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   Health facilities would be furnished only with the equipment,
medicine and supplies which are appropriate given their
category as set by several criteria including the staffing
complement. If all the criteria are not met by a health
facility, the inputs agreed for a lower level of service would be
more appropriate and could be provided under the project
(para. 3.6).
(b)   A study evaluating the performance of community health
workers participating in the project would be carried out
during the second half of 1996. The terms of reference for the
study would be agreed between the Bank and the Government
(para. 3.21).
(c)   The Project Coordinator would prepare and transmit to the
Bank no later than March 31, 1994 an operational manual
(ara 3.22).
(d) A training strategy and indicative plan for 1994-1999 would be
prepared by the person responsible for education in the MEC
mnanagement team, in consultation with the sub-regional
directors of health services and the project coordinator, for
review by the Bank no later than June 30, 1994 (pam. 3.24).
(e)   The Ministry of Health would prepare and furnish to the Bank
by not later than November 1 of each year starting in 1994,
annual project implementation plans and budgets; and
beginning in 1995, transmit to the Bank annual monitoring
reports covering project imple:nentation (pam. 3.27).
(f)   For the purpose of project monitoring and evaluation, the list
of indicators and mechanisms of data collection as described in
Annex 5 and para 3.29 would be used. A baseline and
subsequent survey would be used to assess project impact.
The content, timing and financing of both surveys have been
agreed with the Bank (pam 3.30).



- 40 -
(g)   No change in responsibilities for project implementation would
be made without prior discussion and agreement with the Bank
(pam. 3.31);
(h)   A Mid-Term Review would be held by mid-1997. The Mid-
Tern Review would cover the previous monitoring reports of
project performance against both the work program and key
indicators, as well as the evaluation of the performance of
community health workers and nutrition studies. (par. 3.39).
(i)   The Ministry of Health would at all times during the execution
of the project have suitable arrangements in place with one or
more transportation companies to provide for distribution of
goods pr.cured under the project, the cost of which would be
financed by the Government, or, alternatively, delivery of
goods to specific regions could be specified in the procurement
documents (pam. 4.13).
6.2         a a cndition of effectiveness, evidence would be provided
the an IEC management team with qualifications and experience acceptable
to ie Bank shall have been employed (para. 3.24).
6.3         As a condition of disbursement for the drugs and medical
supplies category of expenditure, the Government has furnished to the Bank
satisfactory evidence that suitable arrangements for their distribution have
been made (pamr 4.13).
6.4         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$34.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Peru, repayable in 20 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 41 -
Table 1: Demographic Indicators: Latin America              ANNEX 1
I 1A1 nrMR)F
Total    GNP Per  Popation  Fertility  Cu five   Infant          Life
Population   Caia         rwi()    a       rVlne()  Mortality Expectncy at
(miffions), Capita'  Growth ()'                  (%)2 (r           Bith'l
Argentina                  32.7      2790         1.3    2.8              -       25          71
Bolivia                     7.3       650        2.5    4.8             12        83          59
Brazil                    151.4      2940        2.0    2.8             56        58          66
chile                      13.4      2160         1.7    2.7             -        17          72
Colombia                   32.8      1260        2.0    2.7             53        23          69
Costa Rica                  3.1      1850        2.7    3.2             58        14          76
Dominican Republic         7.2        940        2.2    3.1             47        54          67
Ecuador                    10.8      1000        2.6    3.7             41        47          66
El Salvador                 5.3      1080         1.4    4.1            44        42          66
Guatemala                   9.5       930        2.9    5.4             19        60          64
Haiti                      6.6        370        1.9    4.7              9        94          65
Honduras                    5.3       580        3.3    5.0             33        49          65
Mexico                     83.3      3030        2.0    3.2             45        36          70
Nicaragua                   3.8       460        2.7    5.1             23'       56          66
Panama                      2.5      2130        2.1    2.9             54        21          73
Paraguay                    4.4      1270        3.1    4.4             35        35          67
Peru                       21.9      1070        2.2    3.4             33        53          64
Uruguay                     3.1      2840        0.6    2.4              -        21          73
Venezuela                  19.8      2730        2.6    3.7            37*        34          70
Sources:
' World Development Report 1993
2United Nations, (1989) and InstitUte for Resource Development (several years).
3The figure for Nicaragua is for 1981 - current contraceptive prevalence is estimated at 4%.
*She figure for Venezuela is for 1977.



- 42-                        ANNEX i
Table 2
Deliveries Attended by Health Personnel
Total     Urban       Rural
Bolivia               (1989)       42          63         23
Brazil                (1986)        80         92         58
Columbia              (1986)       71          85         50
Ecuador               (1987)        62         85         40
Peru                  (1986)       49          80         16
(1991)       52         74          19
El Salvador           (1985)        51         59         28
Guatemala             (1987)       29          60         18
Mexico                (1987)       71          83         44
Dominican Republic    (1986)       90          95         83
Source: Various DHS Reports



-43 -                                                ANNEX  1
Table 3 PERU: Evolbtn o1 ferlity by selected oheweotetia
Total fertilitv rate (TFR) and average number live births to women aged 40-49 by selected characteristics,
OHS 1991-1992 and other surveys
Total fertility rate (TFRI
Characteristic                   ENAF 1977-78     DHS 1888    OHS 1991-92       Average no. live births'
Area of Residence
Urban                               4.5             3.1           2.8                    4.5
Rural                               7.4             6.3           6.2                    7.3
Administrative Region
Loreto                              NA              NA            5.5                    6.5
A. A. Caceres                       NA              NA            4.8                    6.1
Arequipa                            NA              NA            3.0                    4.0
Chavin                              NA              NA            4.2                    5.9
Grau                                NA              NA            3.9                    6.5
bika                                NA              NA            5.2                    6.2
Manategui                            NA             NA             4.4                    5.6
Ubrtadores                           NA             NA             6.2                    6.7
Nor-Oriental                         NA             NA             4.1                    5.7
Lta Lbertad                         NA              NA            3.9                    5.9
San Martin                           NA             NA             4.6                    6.5
ticayali                             NA             NA             5.0                    7.0
Uma                                  NA             NA             2.3                    3.8
Natural Region
Metropobtan Lima                     3.4            2.5            2.1                    3.6
Other Coastal                        4.9            3.8            3.3                    5.4
Highland                             6.7            5.4            4.9                    6.1
Jungle                               7.3            6.0            5.1                    6.9
Level of urbanization
Metropolitan Lirna                   NA             NA             2.1                    3.6
Other large cities                   NA             NA             3.2                    4.9
Other urban                          NA             NA             3.7                    5.8
Rural                                NA             NA             6.2                    7.3
Level of education
None                                 NA             6.6            7.1                    7.4
Primary                              NA             5.0            5.1                    6.1
Secondary                            NA             3.1            3.1                    3.8
Higher                               NA             1.9            1.9                    2.7
Total                                   5.3            4.1            3.5                    5.1
NA: Not available
'Average for women 40-49 according to DHS 1991-1992



- 44 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 4 Prenatal care by place ot residence and education
Percentage distribution of births in five years preceding the survey, by type of prenatal care,
according to selected characteristics, OHS 1991-1992
Type of prenatal care
Characteristics      Physician    Obstetrics nursel Other care    No one/        Total Number of
nurse                      No information             births
Area of Residence
Urban                 59.0           21.3          2.4          17.3           100      5135
Rural                 18.5           19.9          6.7          54.9           100      3338
Administrative Region
Loreto                34.8           2.6           2.8          60.1           100       417
A. A. Caceres         24.9           23.5          6.9          44.7           100       927
Arequipa              58.2           30.6          1.7          9.6            100       293
Chavin                 32.4          30.7           3.3         33.6            100       402
Grau                   43.8          17.0           5.8         33.3            100       726
Inka                   22.1          43.7           1.6         32.5            100       689
Mariategul             33.8          26.0           8.7         31.5            100       546
Libertedores           22.4          23.1           3.9         50.6            100       690
Nor-Oriental           38.1          11.7           5.5         44.8            100      1051
La Ubertad             47.2           9.9           5.4         37.6            100       502
San Martin             37.9          19.2           9.3         33.6            100       208
Ucayali                45.1           11.9          6.8          36.3           100       136
Uma                    73.6          19.3           0.5          6.6           100       1884
Natural Region
Metropolitan Lima      77.4          17.1           0.6          4.9           100       1640
Other Coastal          63.9           22.2          3.4          20.5           100      2002
Highland               23.1          24.9           5.9         46.1            100      3327
Jungle                  35.5          13.7          4.6          46.2           100      1505
Level of urbanization
Metropolitan Uma       77.4          17.1           0.6          4.9            100      1640
Other large cities     54.5          21.1           2.9         21.5            100      2341
Other urban            42.1          27.9           3.7         26.3            100      1154
Rural                  18.5          19.9           6.7         54.9            100      3338
Level of education
None                   13.6          18.2           5.8         62.5            100       882
Primary                25.9          21.2           6.1         46.8            100      3496
Secondary              57.6          23.3           2.5         16.7            100      2882
Higher                 81.0          15.7           0.6          2.7            100      1177
Total                    43.1           20.8          4.1         32.1            100      8473
Note: The estimates refer to births in the period from 1-59 months preceding the survey
If the respondent mentioned more than one source of care, only the most qualified is included



45                                            ANNEX 1
Table 5 Tetanus toxoid immunlation by piece of residence and education
Percentage distrlbution of births In five years preceding the survey, by number of doses of tetanus toxold vaccine
durno pregnancV, according to selected characteristics DHS 1991-1"32
Number of doses tetanus toxoid
Prenatal  Number of
Characteristics          None           One       Two or more  Does not know/   Total   Card      births
No Information
Area of Residence
Urban                  E8.9           17.1         23.8          0.2            100      43.0     5135
Rural                  73.7           11.7          14.4         0.1            100      14.6      3338
Administrative Region
Loreto                 84.3          16.1          19.4         0.1            100       8.1       417
A. A. Caceres          75.7          11.6          12.7         0.0            100      21.0       927
Arequlpa               50.2          24.5          18.5         0.8            100      50.2       293
Chavin                5s.8           17.7          25.3         0.4            100      41.1       402
Grau                   56.8          13.4          29.8         O.l            100      17.0       728
Inka                  59.7           19.1          21.2         0.0            100      25.1      e8s
Mariategui            81.4           9.5           8.8          0.3            100      28.4       548
Ubertadores           74.3           11.3          14.3         0.1            100       8.2       890
Nor-Oriental           80.8           12.8         28.4          0.2            100      25.5     1051
La Ubertad             59.5          18.4          22.0         0.0            100      35.8       502
San Martin             35.0           24.e         40.3          0.2            100      35.2      208
Ucayall                44.7           18.5         38.7          0.1            100      37.4      138
Lima                   67.4           15.6         16.8          0.2            100      58.7     1884
Natural Region
Metropolitan Lima      09.7          14.2          15.9         0.2            100      59.5      1640
Other Coastal          47.0           1sA          33.3          0.3            100      34.0     2002
Highland               76.7           11.8         12.3          0.1            100      21.8     3327
Jungle                 58.5          18.9          24.5          0.1           100      20.7      1505
Level of ufrbanIzation
14.2         15.9          0.2            100      59.5     1840
Metrool1tan iUma       68.7          18.4          28.1         0.3            100      39.1      2341
Other large ckes       53.2          18.8          26.5         0.0            100      27.5      1154
Other urban            54.9          11.7          14.4         0.1            100      14.5      3338
Rural                  73.7
Level of education
None                   79.2          9.2           11.6         0.0            100      12.3       882
Primary                68.9          13.1          18.0         0.0            100      21.3      3498
Secondary              54.8          19.5          25.5         0.3            100      41.5      2882
Higher                 88.0          13.8          20.2         0.1            100      54.1      1177
Total                    64.7           15.0         20.1          0.2            100      31.8      8473
Note: The estinates refer to births in the period from 1-69 months preceding the survey



-46  -                                          ANNEX  I
Toabe 6 PERU: Typo ot awe dwing deivewy by reidense  i educa7tiont
Percentage distribution of births In five years preceding the survey, by typo of esre during delivery
aroordina to selooted cherscteristico, DHS 1991-1992
Tvn of oare cdufrin delivery
Obtetrio nurse  Midwitelf8A Reet ivel                              Number of
Ch_racterIstios                Physi__an  Nurse     Other'       Other      No one  No information  Totsl   births
Area ot Reideone
Urban                             49.0         26.4         17.4        7.0      0.6          0.1    100       6136
Rural                              10.4         8.3         47.1        32.7     1.4           0.1    100       3338
AdmInIstrative Regio
Loreto                            23.0         17.0         39.5       19.6      0.9          0.0    100        417
A. A. Cacerse                     20.7         21.1         27.9       28.3      1.8          0.1    100        927
Arequipa                             50.9        28.9          12.7        7.6     0.0           0.0    100        293
Chtvin                            28.4         24.1         32.0       15.2      2.2          0.2    100        402
Grau                              27.8         18.0         44.2        7.8      2.0          0.0    100        726
Inka                              17.3         10.6         28.5       37.0      0.4          0.3    100        689
Matriategul                       21.1          9.9         26.3       42.1      0.3          0.2    100        548
Ubertedores                       17.4         20.8         24.8       37.2      0.0          0.0    100        690
Nor-Odental                       21.S         11.2         55.0       11.9      0.2          0.1    100       1061
La Ubertad                        33.6         14.4         46.6        5.8     0.0           0.4    100        502
SonMartin                         19.2         13.6         57.6        8.1      1.5          0.0    100        208
Ucayali                           29.2         24.6         30.8        9.6     0.7           0.3    100        136
Umrs                              88.6         23.4          3.6        3.9      0.4          0.1    100       1884
Natural Region
Metropolitan Um                   73.3         21.0          2.1        3.3     0.2           0.1    100       1640
Other Coastal                     39.3         27.3         27.2        5.0      1.1          0.1    100       2002
Highland                          16.6         14.0         37.5       30.8      1.0          0.2    100       3327
Jungle                            21.7         16.0         42.3       20.2     0.7           0.0    100       1605
Level of urbanization
Metropoliton Um                   73.3          21           2.1        3.3      0.2          0.1    100       1640
Otherfargeoities                  40.0         28.9         21.3        8.6     0.3           0.1    100       2341
Otherurban                        31.7         24.8         31.2       11.2      1.2          0.0    100       1164
Rural                             10.4          8.3         47.1       32.7      1.4           0.1    100      3338
Lee of education
None                               8.9          6.8         43.1       39.1      1.8          0.4    100        882
Primary                           17.6         12.2         42.9       26.0      1.3          0.1    100       3498
Scoondery                         46.0         28.3         18.5        7.0     0.3           0.0    100       2882
Higher                            71.1         23.6          3.6        1.6      0.1          0.2    100       1177
Total                                33.8        18.7         29.1        17.6     0.8           0.1    100       8473
Note: The estimates refer to births In te period from 1-59 months preoeding the surveys.
'if the respondent mentioned more fthn one source of oare, only the moat qulified Included.
'TW: Traditional birth attendant



- 47-                                          ANNEX 1
Table 7 PERU: Diarrhea prevalence by child's age, sex and birth order
Percentage of children under age 5 who had diarrhea and percentage with bloody diarrhea in
in 2 weeks preceding the survey, and percentage with diarrhea in last 24 hours,
by age, birth order, DHS 1991-1992
Diarrhea in last 2 weeks'
All types of                       All types of diar,'iea   Number of
Characteristics                      diarrhea        Bloody diarrhea   in the last 24 ht .rs2    children
Age
0-6 months                         18.6                2.4                 10.0                 745
6-11                               30.7               3.5                 17.8                  813
12-23                               30.3               5.4                 15.3                 1509
24-35                               17.9               4.1                 8.4                  1554
36-47                               11.6               2.5                 5.2                  1705
48-59                               8.7                1.6                 4.1                  1607
Sex
Male                               19.2               3.4                 10.1                 4059
Female                             17.6               3.1                  8.4                 3874
Birth order
1                                  15.5               2.3                  7.1                 2125
2-3                                 17.0               3.1                 8.6                  2916
4-5                                 21.7               3.9                 11.6                 1488
6-                                  22.2               4.5                 11.6                 1404
Total                                  18.4               3.3                 9.3                 7932
Note: The estimates refer to births in the period from 1-59 months preceding the surveys
'Includes diarrhea in last 24 hours.
1Includes bloody diarrhea



-48-                                       ANNEX 1
Table 8 PERU: Diarrhea prevalence by place of residence and education
Percentage of children under age 5 who had diarrhea and percentage with bloody diarrhea
in 2 weeks preceding the survey, and percentage with diarrhea in last 24 hours
by place of residence and education level, DHS 1991-1992
Diarrhea in last 2 weeks'
All types of                          All types of diarrhea  Number of
Characteristics      diarrhea               Bloody diarrhea  in the last 24 hours"  children
Area of Residence
Urban                       16.2                2.4              07.6            4898
Rural                       22.0                4.7              11.9             3035
Administrative Region
Loreto                      23.0                4.3              13.3             372
A. A. Caceres               23.3                3.7              10.5             858
Arequipa                     16.7               1.5              07.9             283
Chavin                      21.0                5.2              12.0             381
Grau                        18.4                3.4              10.0             664
Inka                        24.1                6.4              11.7             618
Mariategul                  22.5                5.8              15.6             494
Libertadores                21.7                4.3              10.6             646
Nor-Oriental                16.5                2.5              08.6             996
La Libertad                 16.8                2.0              10.1             474
San Martin                  24.9                1.5              11.5             193
Ucayali                     21.2                3.3              11.2             123
Llma                         11.3               1.5              04.1             1830
Natural Region
Metropolitan Lima            10.9               1.7              04.2             1597
Other Coastal               14.1                2.1              06.7             1894
Highland                    22.5                4.8              12.1            3062
Jungle                      23.9                3.2              12.4             1379
Level of urbanization
Metropolitan Lima            10.9               1.7              04.2             1597
Other large cities          18.5                2.6              09.2            2210
Other urban                 19.2                3.2              09.4             1090
Rural                       22.0                4.7              11.9             3035
Level of education
None                        23.3                4.2              13.4             793
Primary                     22.0                4.8              11.4             3173
Secondary                   16.7                2.3              08.0            2773
Higher                      09.4                0.8              03.8             1158
Total                          18.4                3.3             09.3             7932
Note: The estimates refer to births in the period from 1-59 months preceding the surveys.
'Includes diarrhea in last 24 hours.
$Includes bloody diarrhea



- 49 -                                         ANNEX 1
Table 9 PERU: Child nutrition indicators by selected charactefistics
Percentage of children under S classified as malnourished according to three anthropometric mteasures: height for age,
we!mt for height and weight for age, accordingto selected characteristics, DHS, 1991-1992
Height for are         Weieht for Heirht       Weleht for aie
Characteristios      Percentage   Pectentage   Percentage   Percentage   Percentage   Percentage   Number
-3SD       -2SD1       -3SD        -2SD'       -3SD       -2SD'       of
or lower    or lower    or lower    or lower    or lower    or lower    Children
Area of Residence
Urban              7.7        25.9         0.3         1.3         1.0        6.4        4328
Rural              23.4        53.4        0.4         1.7        2.8         17.7       2708
Adminirative Region
Loreto             14.6       44.8         0.5         2.3        2.7         20.4        329
A.A. Caceres       21.2       49.3         0.5         1.1         1.3        12.8        762
Atrquipa           4.7        20.1         0.0         1.0        0.9         4.7         262
Chavin             16.3       41.8         0.0         0.2        1.1         8.7         316
Grau               15.1       40.0         0.0         0.7        2.9         13.5        602
Inka              23.5        53.7         0.2         1.4        3.3         20.5        526
Mariategui         10.1       32.0         1.0         4.0        1.5         7.8         445
Libertadores      24.6        50.6         0.3         0.7        1.6         13.0        601
Nor-Oriental       15.0       43.7         0.4         2.6        1.7         13.4        906
Le Librtad         15.9       40.1         0.7         2.2        3.1         11.2        425
San Matn           13.3       37.9         0.4         1.1        2.3         16.0        182
Ucayali            11.9       37.0         1.5         2.7        2.6         12.6        110
Lima               2.9         13.5        0.0         0.7        0.3         2.5         1571
Natwual Region
Metropoltan Lima    2.1        11.2        0.0         0.6        0.3         2.7         1376
Other Coastal      9.3        29.3         0.2         1.1        1.3         7.2         1724
Highland          22.4        51.6         0.4         1.7        2.1         14.6       2710
Jungle             14.0       41.4         0.5         2.2        2.5         16.4        1226
Level of Urbanization
Metropolitan Lims    2.1       11.2        0.0         0.6        0.3         2.7         1376
Other large cities    10.4    31.5        0.5         1.1         1.6         8.4        2010
Other Urban       10.1        35.3        0.2         1.7         0.6         7.7        942
Rural             23.4        53.4        0.4         2.2         2.8        17.7        2708
Level of education
None              33.9        65.0        0.4         1.7         4.7        23.6        676
Primary           19.0        48.5        0.3         1.8         2.0        14.5        2852
Secondary         6.9         25.5        0.3         1.1         0.9         6.2        2502
Higher             1.6        9.0         0.2         1.3         0.5         2.5        975
Total                13.7        36.5        0.3         1.4         1.7        10.8        7035
Note: Th esimates refer to children born from 1-59 months before the survey. Each measure is exprssed in terms of the
number of standard deviations (SD) from the median of the intemaional patten used by NCHS/CDCAWHO. Children are
clasfied as malnourished if they are 2 or nore standard deviations C2SD or lower) below the rnedian of the reference
population.
'Includes children 3SD or lower



-50-                             ANNEX 2
PROJECT AREAS: POPULATION, INFRASITRUCTURE AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Table 1: Communities and Population in Project Areas
Region         Grau      Cajamarca,   Cuzco    San Juan de        Total/
Nor-Oriental           Lurigancho, Lima   Average
de Maraiion                                         l
Estimated         177       188          181       204                750
Communities
Population     393,000  418,000       403,000  454,000            1,668,000
Population        30        18            18     3,469                 37
density
(pop./sq. km.)                                                            -  .
Table 2: Primary Health Care Infrastructure and Professionals in Project Area
Region      Grau       Cajamarca      Cuzco    San Juan        Total/Average
Nor-Oriental           de Lurigancho,
l________ de Maraiion              Lima
Total Health  16       12             16        15             59
Centers
Percent     25         33             69       100             58
Health
Centers with
Doctor
Total Health  76       45             77        9              207
Posts
Percent     33         89            78        100             65
Health Posts
with
Technician
or Nurse



- 51-                            ANNEX 2
Table 3: POPULATION AND COVERAGE AREAS
Region         Grau           Cajamarca,      Cuzco        San Juan de
Nor-Oriental de             Lurigancho, Lima
Maranlon
Population per  25,000        35,000          25,000       30,000
center
Population per   5,000         9,000          5,000        50,000
post
Coverage area    830            740            1,430          9
of center (sq.
km.)
Coverage area    175            200             300           15
of post (sq.
km.)
Coverage area    34              21             57            < 1
of promotor
(sq. km-.)
Coverage area    70              40             100           1
of community
midwife (sq.
k m .    ~)    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I_ _ _ _ I  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __I_ _ _ _
Table 4: Community Outreach Supervision Assumptions
Region      Grau         Cajamarca,   Cuzco        San Juan de   Average
Nor-Oriental             Lurigancho,
de Maranion              Lima
Promotors    5           9            5            50           8
per Post
Community   3            5            3            25           4
Midwives
per post
Posts per    5           4            5            < 1          4
center



-52-                          ANNEX 3
DESCRIPIION OF PROTOCOIS
Prenatal Care and Deliveries
1.           The content of prenatal care will vary depending on the service
level. At the health center, it will include an exam to determine uterine
height, blood pressure, determination of gestational age, and if there is a
laboratory, blood and urine tests. In addition, weight gain monitoring,
tetanus immunization, micronutrient supplementation and health education
will be provided. At the health post level it would include all of the above,
with the exception of laboratory work and pelvic exams. Prenatal care at the
community level would include the same services as the post health level,
with the exception of tetanus immunization. Activities at that level will be
conducted by midwives trained under the project, who will monitor pregnant
women at least four times during their pregnancy. While pre-natal care wiUl
be provided to women who attend posts and centers for services, the
emphasis will be on outreach activities at the community level in order to
ensure adequate coverage for al women. Tetanus immunization will include
two doses during pregnancy. Iron supplementation will consist of a three-
month dose (bottle) provided at each of two pre-natal visits. Iodine
supplements (iodized oil capsules) will be provided once during pregnancy.
In the case of complications leading to obstetric emergencies during
pregnancy or at delivery, community workers will be encouraged to organize
emergency transportation. I Deliveries will be performed at centers, posts
with appropriately trained staff, and by midwives in the community.
Post-Partum Care
2.           Post-partum care will include vitamin A supplementation (one
megadose) and health education at all levels. Health education will
emphasize exclusive breastfeeding, appropriate weaning, child immunization
and information on family planning. An exam to determine uterine height
will also be performed. Family planning methods available at the community
level include barrier methods to new and curreat users, and resupply
'Many programs employ obstetrc risk scorng systems to deploy patients to adequate
levels of care depending on their assessed risk of complications during pregnancy and
delivery. These risk-based systems, while useful to sensitize health personnel and pregnant
women to potential obstetric complications, are less useful when applied in contexts that lack
the preparedness it requires. Risk-scoring systems result in a large number of false positives
which ends up crowding higher levels of care with cases which do not require that care.
Furthermore, the usefulness of screening is limited by the fact that in practice about two-
thirds of complications are not predicted by the screening device.



ANNEX 3
I
I   If              I                   I
flit'                     I      J        I1J
_________________                       111111
Ii        jJJ j I
.0
:1
I
4
I   I
IfIIjIJr&             I       I
00           u1aj               -.                I
I Lfu,i
IIItililiIii        I           -II
0                               I                1
I !iJifIh
lift
-               I    UiII tiMid     JUl
I
II                  I
I
''-''   t
fiJi111   I                    I
I
j [1i                        I       
ilihi lilt III                  I           Iii
I                       Ii1
I uii i  I   HI
A ii               I



- 54 -                     ANNEX 3
of oral contraceptives to current users. Oral contraceptives and injectables
are prescribed by health personnel at posts and centers after screening for
contraindications. Posts provide all non-clinical methods (orals, injectables
and barrier methods). Centers provide IUD insertion in addition to non-
clinical methods. All levels of care make referrals to centers with inpatient
services or hospitals for sterilization. Table I summarizes the type of care
for basic maternal services which would be provided by each provider.
Child Health
3.          Preventive child care services will be provided primarily at the
community level by community health workers. The major activities are
screening, surveillance, and health education. Infants will be registered for
immunizations and growth monitoring by midwives at birth. All children
under three years of age will be followed-up four times a year (see para
3.11) Their mothers will receive education on child nutrition and health.
Children between two and ten years of age will receive antihelminthics twice
a year. The same care will be provided at all levels (center, post,
community) although immunizations at the post or center would not need to
be part of a special campaign. Curative care will be provided only in posts
and centers, and includes treatment of acute respiratory infections and
moderate diarrheal disease. Severe cases, (i.e. pneumonia, severe
dehydration and severe malnutrition) will be treated in centers with inpatient
services.
Antihehuinthic Administration
4.          The anthelminthic drug mebendazole will be distributed at the
community level to all children aged 2 to 10 twice per year. Pre-school
children will receive it from the community woman responsible for growth
monitoring in conjunction with a scheduled growth monitoring event.
Children in primary school will receive the anthelminthic in schools from the
promoter in coordination with the school teacher. Providers will explain the
benefits in improved nutrition and the personal hygiene practices to follow to
avoid reinfection.
Growth Monitoring
5.          The growth of children between 0 and 3 years of age will be
monitored at the community level three times per year by a community health
worker trained in growth monitoring using the indicator of weight for age.
Growth monitoring will take place during an event which will include a
weaning food coolkng demonstration, a nutrition education session for
mothers, and a contest with prizes for mothers adopting good nutritional
practices (e.g., those whose children have gained weight, improved since the
last weighing, completed all required vaccinations, etc.). Children who have
not gained weight or who have lost weight since the last weighing will be
refrred to the health center for a medical exam and enrolled for monthly



- 55 -                     ANNEX3
weighing until they begin to gain weight. Their mothers will be paired with
volunteer mothers of children gaining weight to provide advice and support.
6.          The community health workers trained in growth monitoring
will use one of two weighing instruments, a hanging Salter scale or the new
UNICEF digital sensor scale. Each subregion may select which of these
instruments will be used in each community. Each woman responsible for
child growth monitoring will also receive: (a) a calendar dial to facilitate the
calculation of children's ages; (b) cooking utensils for weaning food
demonstrations; (c) community nutrition educational materials; and (d) the
"tall stick" (a folding measuring stick to measure height for age). The tall
stick has been field tested by Seirig in Nicaragua for Tufts School of
Nutrition and found to be a useful instrument for monitoring height for age at
the community level, particularly because women with limited formal
education can be easily trained to use it and require little supervision.
Iron Supplementation
7.          Pregnant women will receive iron supplements for six months
(1 bottle of tablets for three months on each of two visits) from the
community midwife (or by an obstetric nurse or physician in health center or
health post if they are the primary source of prenatal care). Supplements of
60 mg. iron plus folic acid will be given daily for six months during
pregnancy. The provider will explain the benefits of iron consumption -
reduction of maternal anemia; reduction in maternal and infant mortality and
morbidity; and improvement in birthweight. S(he) will also counsel women
to drink more fluids and expect darker stools as a normal side effect. She
will discuss with the women the need to keep iron tablets away from children
to avoid the possibility of poisoning. This extensive period of
supplementation is to compensate for likely underconsumption of iron.
Iodine Supplementation
8.         In mountainous regions without extensive commercial
distribution of iodized salt iodized oil supplements will be provided orally by
community health workers every 2 years to all community residents under
age 45. Infants under age 1 will receive 0.5 ml. and all others will receive 2
ml. Promoters will place the greatest emphasis on reaching pregnant women,
other women of childbearing age and infants under age 1. The project would
coordinate with PRONABCE to train community health workers and health
professionals to recognize iodine deficiency, to distribute iodized oil, and to
promote iodized salt consumption. The community health worker will
explain the benefits of iodine (reductions in stillbirths, perinatal deaths,
cretinism, physical retardation, and child morbidity and improvements in
birthweights). The community health worker will also encourage the
community to purchase and consume iodized salt when it becomes available
through the ongoing efforts of the National Goiter Control and Prevention
Program (PRONABCE).



-56-                       ANNEX3
Tetanus Toxoid Immunlzation
9.          Pregnant women will receive two doses of tetanus toxoid (T)
immunizations during pregnancy. The immunizations will be administered
by a technician or nurse in the health post or by a nurse or doctor in the
health center. The first dose will be given as early as possible in the
pregnancy and the second dose at least four weeks later.
10.         Other women will receive TI immunizations during visits to
health posts or centers for child immunization or other services based on a
review of their prior immunization status. Secondary school girls will
receive Tl immunizations in their schools. Three doses will be given in one
school year (at intervals of four weeks between the first and second doses
and 6 months between the second and third). Health post or health center
staff trined to give injections will administer the vaccines based on a
schedule coordinated with school teachers.
Vitamin A Supplementation
11.         Megadoses of vitamin A will be provided to all children from
age 6 months to 6 years at the community level by the community health
workers responsible for growth monitoring as well as to lactating women
within four weeks of delivery by the community midwife. Infants from 6-12
months will receive single doses of 100,000 IU (intenmational units).
Children between 1 and 6 years and lactating mothers will receive single
doses of 200,000 IU. Doses for children will be repeated each 6 months and
distribution will be linked to growth monitoring. At the time of distribution,
community health workers will conduct education sessions to explain: (a) the
importance of vitamin A in reducing child mortality and morbidity and
improving child growth; (b) good dietary sources of vitaunin A available
locally; and (c) the importance of not taldng more than 1 megadose every 6
months.
Tuberculosis Treatment
12.         Community promoters and midwives wiU be trained to detect
symptoms of tuberculosis (cough with expectoration for 15 or more days) and
to refer community members with these symptoms to the health post or
health center for sputum analysis. The community health workers
alternatively may collect sputum samples from community members and
twansport them to the nearest laboratory (health post or health center) for
analysis. In communities beyond a normal waling distance to the health
post or center, the community health worker will keep medicines for TB
patients and provide them to patients on a daily basis. The community health
worker will visit any patient who does not come to take medications within 2
days. The promoter will register all household members of TB patients and
provide a 6 month course of isoniazid to all those under age 5. All
households with TB patients will be registered in the nearest health post or
center for food assistance under the PANFAR or other feeding program in



-57 -                      ANNEX3
opwation. The physician and the nurse in the nearest health center each will
visit each patient under treatment at least 3 times over the 6 month treatment.
The physician will refer any TB patient with signs of AIDS to the nearest
hospital for a free EUSA test.



-58 -                     ANNEX4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Structure and Functions
I.    Poect SteeidngCommittU
A.   Composition
Director of Human Health Services
Representative of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
Directors of Ministry of Health in the following areas:
Planning
External Cooperation
Communication
Sub-Regional Directors of Health (4)
Project Coordinator
B.   Principal Functions and Responsibilities
Ensures the consistency of project activities with the national
policies of the Ministry;
Ensures adequate cooperation between the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Health and local authorities involved
in the project in the general programming and allocation of resources and the
availability of local counterpart funds;
Reviews the Annual Work Programs for the project areas,
monitors the program twice a year and recommends measures to improve
project execution, as necessary;
Authorizes the Project Coordinator to sign short-term
consultant contracts related to project execution; and
Approves the Contract of the Project Coordinator and evaluates
performance periodically.



-59-                      ANNEX 4
II.  ftwect COlgdiat
PrinjalW Functions and Resonsiiities
Ensures the execution of the project in its entirety;
Ensures the timely availability of extemal project financing in
line with approved plans and performance;
Ensures the timely availability of local counterpart funds;
Monitors progress on project activities and takes remedial
actions, as necessary;
Prepares periodic reports on the progress of the projects for
the Steering Committee, the Ministry of Health and the World Bank, as
requested;
Signs agreements with the public and private institutions and
with the consultants in order to further the objectives of the project, as
authorized by the Project Steering Committee;
Ovesees and facilitates the procurement and delivery of the
equipment, medicine and supplies financed under the project with the support
and advice of responsible parties in the Ministry of Health and the
procurement agents; and
Ensures the maintenance of adequate project accounts and
auditing of these accounts on a timely basis, in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines and procedures.
m.   IEC Manageen Unit
IEC Managa: Pincipal Functions and Responsibilities
Reports to the Project Coordinator and advises on EEC matters;
Plans and manages the implementation of the EEC program,
including the contracting of various services and supervision of contracts;
Coordinates various technical teams (design, production,
dissemination, research) with the project and the Ministry of Health.



- 60-                     ANNEX 4
MC Advisor on Research: Eincipal Functions and Responsibie
Plans and manages the research program necesary to design
and measure the impact of fte MEC program, including the identfication of
the necessary studies, contrcting with appropriate agencies, and supervision
of work of contractors; and
Reviews and evaluates the various materials produced and the
design for evaluation studies.
IEC Advisor on Education:  P1  Functions an SOniliti
Plans and monitors all training activities;
Ensures that the content of training courses is consistent with
project objectives, Ministry of Health guidelines and messages of IEC
campaign;
Reviews all materials produced for educational content and
effectiveness; and
Reviews teaching methods for courses in order to ensure
adequate communication and retention of material.
W. Sub-Regional Directors
Responsible for manaing the execution of project activities in
their respective geographical areas;
Maintain close communication with the Project Coordinator;
Prepare annual work plans for prqect activities and carry them
out. Make decisions on the institutions, particularly NGOs, who would
implement various project activities locally;
Sign contracts with local implementing agencies;
Ensure adequate project records and accounting at the local
level; and
Prepare periodic reports on project execution.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
INDICATORS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND BIPACT
KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1994   1995   1996   1997   199S    1999
Maternal Health Sevi;ces
Pre-Natal Care
*No. of Pro-Natal Visits
*No. of Women Receiving at least 4 pro-natal visits
*No. of Tetanus Immunization doses administered
*No. of Doses distributed of Iron/Polic Acid
Deliveries
*No. of Women with Atteaded Deliveries
Child Health Series
No. of children weighed 3 times in year
No. of weighingp of Children under 3 years of age
No. of Viamin A doses distnbuted
No. of child weighing sessions
No. of weaning food demonstations
Tuberculosis
No. of samples collected
No. of home visits for TB patients
No. of patients completing treatment
*Targets will be agreed with the Ministry of Health following completion of base line study and would be
specific to subregions.
Note: Source of data will be health facilities. Staff there would gather data from community health
workers during supervision visits (6x a year), consolidate the information and add scrvices provwided at
the facility level. Data would be compiled twice a year at the level of each subrtegional director.
*Data broken down by community heah worker/health facility.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
1994  1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
No. of Messages produced (UC)
Pre-Natal Care
Child Growth Monitoring
Breastfeeding
Weaing
Other
No. of I5mes Messages sent through Mass Communication (UC)
Pro-Natal Care
Child Grwth Montonng
Breast&eding
Weaning
Other
No. of Educational Contacts By Health Post or Cente Staff (HF)
Pro-Natal
Child Growth Monitorng
Breatkeding
Weaning
Other
No. of paid clips appearing in prinxtd Mass Media
In Radio (UC)
Thining
Community Worke
Number Passing Profioienq Test (by Level: Beg, Int.
Ad.)
No. of Interpersonal contacts realzed (HP)
No. of Educational Materials produced for.
(UC)
Pro-Natal Care
Child Grwth Monitoring
Hours of Training (HF)
Number of Field Days of Faciliy Staff (HF)
No. of Visits to Health Post/Center by Communiky Health
Works (HP)
HF:    Health Facilities Data would be compiled twice a year at the level of each subregional medical dhicr.
UC:    IEC Management Unit



- 63 -
ANNEX S
Key lodicators of Project Outcome
PltOJECT OUTCOME INDICATORS
19941)       1998t
Percent of Children 1-6 Moth
Excluively breafd
Imalnutriion Pmsenc (weigt for age for chldren under 3)
Stuntinle PoQ  (height for age chikhldn under 3)
1) Source of Data is Baseline Survey (1994) and Impact Survey (1998)
1) Basecl  Survey
2) Impact Suvey



- 64 -                        ANNEX6
CRffERIA FOR QUALIFYING NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
For an NGO to be considered to participate in an activity of the Basic Health and
Nutrition Project, it should comply with minimum requirements which support its
operation and participation.
Legal bases which support its operation and participation in the field of health
and nutrition:
*     Legal entity
*     Registration as an NGO in the Ministry of Health (information should be
updated at the time of the request for proposals)
*     In the case of a joint proposal in association with another NGO or similar
institution, signed document of agreement. The other NGO or similar
institution should also comply with the same legal bases.
QUALIFIWG CRITERIA
1.    OPERATIONAL AND CONTRACTING CAPACITY:
-     Physical infrastructure and vehicles available in Project areas. Information
and communication system (i.e., telephone) available in offices.
-     Human resources (directors, professionals, technical and administrative
personnel) with job stability and/or contracted (with date of entry in NGO).
Indicate specializations. Indicate which human resources will be assigned to
the activity to be contracted with the Project.
Administrative capacity which ensures management of resources and timely
compliance of activities (accounting systems in place, administrative
procedures used, list of suppliers, bank account statements, most recent
sworn income tax declaration).
-     Capacity to present guarantees (bank, assets, etc.).
-     Balance sheets and audits for the year prior to the request for proposals.
2.    EXPERIENCE:
-     Number of years NGO in operation.
Number of years working in Project areas.



-65-                          ANNEX6
With respect to all the NGO's activities, a list indicating the assignment of
directors and personnel to each activity (first and last names).
Specifically in the areas of health and nutrition, a list indicating the
assignment of directors and personnel to each activity (first and last names).
Evaluation reports which indicate results obtained, positive or negative, in
each of the experiences mentioned.
Prior work and capacity to coordinate and integrate with the community, the
Ministry of Health, other NGOs and related entities.
3.  STRATEGIC AND MEHODOLOGICAL PROPOSAL:
Strategic proposal (way of approaching and carrying out activities in the
context of community development, taking into account ease of replication
or adaptation and approach to follow to achieve sustainability of activities at
Project completion).
- Operational plan for activities under NGO's responsibility:
*     proposed methodologies and processes
*     stages considered
*     schedule of activities
*     resources assigned to Project (in case of human resources, indicate
first and last names, specializations or occupation).
Budget:
percent of budgetary resources assigned to:
     personnel assigned to activity
     material inputs
     administrative expenses
>     overhead expenses



-66-                          ANNEX6
GUIDELINES FOIR QUALIICATION AND EVALUATION OF NGOS
1.    MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR NGO PARTICIPATION/LEGAL
BASES WHICH SUPPORT ITS OPERATION
1.1    Legal entity
1.2    Registration with Ministry of Health
1.3    Document of agreement with other NGOs in case of joint proposal
AUTHORIZATION OF GUARANTEES
1.4    Capacity tD authorize guarantees (bank, assets, etc.)
PARAMETE TO QUALIFY
2.    OPERATIONAL AND CONTRACTING CAPACITY
2.1    Physical infrastructure
Office equipped (with minimum of a telephone) in Project area
Vehicles in Project area
2.2    Human Resources assigned to Basic Health and Nutrition Project
(BHNP)
(fist and last names)
Directors
Professionals
Technical personnel
Administrative personnel
2.3    Administrative capacity
Timely and accurate accounting systems in place
Administrative procedures used
List of suppliers (not obligatory)
Copy of sworn declaration of income taxes
Bank account statements
Last audited balance sheets
3.    EXPERIENCE
3.1    Number of years NGO in operation (minimum 2 years)
Number of years active in Project area
3.21  Important activities in areas of extreme poverty, with community
participation and contribution. Indicate participation of personnel
1.This category should always have substant  weight.



-67 -                        ANNEX 6
assigned to each activity (first and last names). Highlight activities
carried out in Project areas.
3.3a   hnportant activities in field of health under similar conditions.
3.4    Capacity to train community human resources.
3.53   Results obtained in activities indicated in 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3
3.6   Principal publications with dates of publication.
3.7    Background of coordination and/or integration with the Ministry of
Health and/or the Subregional Health Offices, with other NGOs and
other related entities.
4.    STRATEGY AND METHODOLOGY PRESENTED
Proposed strategy:
4.1    Creative, dynamic and original manner of approaching the activities
to be carried out, in the context of community development
4.2   Priorities established
4.3    Methodologies and processes defined
4.4   Ease of replication or adaptation
4.5    Approach to follow to achieve sustainability of activities at Project
completion
4.6    Oral defense of proposal
4.7   Stages considered
4.8   Schedule of activities
4.9    Resources assigned to Project
Budget
4.10   Percent assignment of financial resources:
personnel (permanent and contract)
inputs
administrative expenses
overhead.
2. same as for 1.
3. same as for 1.



-68 -                                ANNEX 7
PROJECT COST TAXS
Table I
Base Costs
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
A. Matemal and Chld Health   2.9    4.7   3.3   2.6   2.4   2.1   18.0
B. Nutrition               0.6    0.6   0.5   0.4   0.5   0.2    2.8
C. Tuberulosis             0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1
D. Information             1.1    3.3   4.1   3.5   2.6   2.2   16.8
E. Proj Management and Eval.  0.5    0.2   0.5   0.2   0.5   0.2    2.1
Total BASELINE COSTS       5.0    8.8   8.4   6.7   6.1   4.7   39.8
Physical Contingencies  0.1    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0    1.0
Price Contingencies     0.1    0.4   0.6   0.7   0.9   0.9    3.7
Total PROJECT COSTS        5.2    9.5   9.3   7.7   7.2   5.6   44.5
Taxes                  0.5    1.1   0.9   0.7   0.6   0.4    4.3
Foreign Exchage         2.6    4.1   4.4   3.S   3.1   2.1   19.8
Table 2
--:-.-:- .  a...  {t;"-s ,       <....... ....   ..-. r
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
A. Mateal and Child Health   3.0   5.3   3,6   2.9   2.8   2.5   20.1
B. Nutrition               0.6   0.6   Q.5   0.4   0.6   0.4    3.2
C. Tube¢culosis           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1
D. I^foratin               1.1   3.5   4.6   4.0   3.1   2.4   18.8
E. Proj Management and Eval.  0.5  0Q2   Q.5   0.2   0.6   0.2    2.3
Totd PROIECr COSTS         5.2   9.5   9.3   7.7   7.1   5.6   44.S
Note: Totals may not smir due to roundins



Table 3
Peru
Basic Health and Nutrition Project
Sumnmary Account by Project Component
US$million      .    .
Physical                Price
____________________________________________________________________ :_                            _._.  :   .    .  .  .  Conting   CaCntingency
I Matemal and    Tuberculosis   Information     Project      Nutrition  Total .         Amount    %       Amoud
.  Child Health                               Management
[ .   : -   M  |                     and Evaluation
A. Equipmt nd Vehicles                   6.1            0.1          0.7             0.0        0.9    7.8      5.0        0.5     7.4       0.6
B. Instruction Materials                 0.2            0.0          1.0             0.0        0.0    1.2      0.0        0.0     9.9       0.1
C. Tuining                               0.0            0.0          8.4             0.0        0.0    8.4      0.0        0.0     9.5       0.7
D. Technical Assistance                  0.0            0.0          1.8             1.9        0.2    4.0      0.0        0.0     8.3       0.4
E. Communication                         0.0            0.0          5.0             0.0        0.0    5.0     10.0       0.5    12.0        0.6
F. Furnture                              0.2            0.0          0.0             0.0        0.0    0.2      5.0       0.0      5.2       0.0   o.
Totalp $tMBNT COSS                                                                   I 5  0.1  16.8  1.9  1.2  26.6  3.1   1.0     9.0       2.4.   a
JT.    .     ... c.OS  ^;. .<
A. Drugs and Supplies                    7.9            0.0          0.0             0.0        0.3    8.2      0.0        0.0     9.7       0.8
B. Consumables                           0.2           0.0           0.0             0.0        0.0   0.2       0.0       0.0      4.8       0.0
C. Operating Maintenance                 3.4            0,'0         0.0             0.0        1.4   4.8       0.0       0.0    10.0        0.5
TotalICRBET CEN     STS                 1.5             0.0    .    0.0              0.0        1.7   13.2      0.0        0.0     9.7       1.3
Totll BASELINE COSTS                    18.0            0.1         16.8             2.1        2.9   39.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.5            0.0           0.5             0.0       0.0    1.0
Price Contingencies                     1.6           0.0           1.7             0.2       0.3    3.7
Totll PROJECT COSTS                     20.1           0.1          18.8             2.3        3.2  44.5       2.0        1.0     8,3       3.7
Taxes                                    2.9            0.0          1.1             0.0        0.2    4.3
Foreign Exchange                        11.1            0.0          6.7             0.7        1.3   19.8
Values scaled by 1000000.0
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding



- 70 -                    ANNEX 8
SELECTED DOCUD;IS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Final Proposal, Basic Health and Nutriton Project (Ministry of
Health, December 1992).
2.    Proposal Procurement Procedures to be Followed (Ministry of Health,
December 1992).
3.    Proposal for the Role of NGOs and other Agencies in the Basic
Health and Nutition Project (Ministry of Health, December 1992).
4.    Proposals for the Basic Health and Nutrition Project (Ministry of
Health, November 1992).
5.    Basic Health and Nutrition Project - Statistical Compendium (Ministry
of Health, October 1992).
6.    Basic Health and Nutition Project - Equipment Component (Ministry
of Health, January 1993).
7.    National Plan on Breastfeeding and Weaning (Ministry of Health,
December 1992).
8.    Report on Information, Education and Communications (MEC)
Component, Basic Health and Nutrition Project, by Marco Polo Torres,
Consultant, The Manoff Group, January 1993.
9.    Health and Nutrition Report, 1992, Caritas of Peru.



