Docinert of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
I A/- 370J-Pm
Re"o. P-61 I 8-PE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$34 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
JANUARY 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6118 PE
Type: MOP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRIENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1993)
Currency Unit: Sol
US$1.00 = Soles 2.1
US$0.48 = 1 Sol
USCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
GDP                 Gross Demestic Product
IEC                 Information, Education and Comnmnications
NGO                 Non-governmental Organization
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
PER')
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRMTON PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUA04RY
Borrower:                  Republic of Peru
Renadidar.                 Ministry of Health
Amount:                    US$34 million equivalent
Terms:                     Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Flmndncin Plan:            Government of Peru    US $ 10.5 million
1BRD                 US $ 34.0 million
Total                US $ 44.5 million
>*ate of Retuhrn:          Not applicable
Poverty Category:          Program of Targeted Interventions. The operation
targets the poor by emphasizing primary health
activities and by serving areas of the country where
the incidence of extreme poverty is high.
Staff Agpraisal Report:    11801-PE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t' ,'.formance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



MEMORANDUM AND REC:OMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTI  DIREC1TORS
ON A IPROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBIIC OF PERU
FO)R A BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRMTION PROJECT
1.          I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Government of Peru for the
equivalnt of US$34 million to help finance a basic health and nutrition
project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with
a maturity of 20 years, including five years of grace.
2.          Peru faces serous health and nutntion problems. Infant and
matrnal mtlity rates are among the highest in Latin Amenca. A major
share of morbidity and mortality couled be prevented by increased covage of
basic services such as attended deliveries. Poor sanitation combined with
poor weaning practices and lack of immunization account for close to two-
thirds of all child deaths and 50 percent of infant deaths. Inadequate prenatal
and delivery care are resonsible for the high number of perinaal deaths and
high matermal mortality. The limited access to family planning services in
some areas leads to high fertility and short birth intervals, an important cause
of matemal depletion and subsequent matenal morbidity. Levels of child
malnutrition have not clined significantly over the last two decades.
Slightly over a third of children under the age of five suffer from chronic
malnutrition (short for age) and about ten percent from global malnutrition
(undeveight for age).
3.          The Ministry of Health is the main provider of primary health
care services. The public resources available for social servces in Peru have
become scarce as overall Govenment expenditures fell by 60 percent
between 1985 and 1990. The decline is explained by several ictors,
including the severe recession and the near disappeaance of the country's tax
system-in 1989 tax revenues totaled only 4 percent of GDP. The she of
health (excluding Social Secunty) in central government expenditures has
remained fairly stable at 4-5 percent since 1970, equivalent to about 1
percent of GDP. Spending by the centrl government on health stood at
US$8 per capita in 1990.
4.          Wealmesses in the provision of basic health and nutrition
services, particularly in rural areas, include: low and uneven coverage; poor
quality due to the lack of equipment and drugs and poorly trained staff,
among other factors; and inadequate attention to prevention, particularly with
regard to health and nutrition education and community outreach.



-2 -
5.          Sluggish economic performance is one fact imderlying the
poor health conditions in the country. The goal of the refom program now
being implemented by the Government is to lay the basis for sustained
growth. The first pnciple of the Govemment's poverty alleviation strategy
is to rely on the economic stabilizaion and liberalization program as the
foundation for a reduction of poverty in the country. The second element is
to impwve the living conditions of the population in extreme poverty through
programs in the aeas of food assistance, health, education and employment
generon. i health, the goal is to inme access to and the quality of
primary-preventive services in rural and low-income urban ppuations with a
view to contnbuting to a reducton in morbidity and mortality of infants and
proecting ttVe health of poor women. The main stategies include restoring a
system of monitoring the health status of children; encouraging the
participation of communities in preventive health activites; inproving pre-
and post-natal care and promotig brsfeeding; and increasing the quality
and efficiency of services through training programs for health personnel. In
nutrtion, the principal strategies include improving the targeting and
nutritional standards of food assistance programs, and carrying out education
programs.
Relatioship of Project to Bank Country Assstce Strategy
6.          The main objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy
for Peru (Jiscussed by the Board on April 20, 1993) are to: (1) sustain
stabilization and consolidate structural reforms; (2) foster private sector
development and public sector reform; (3) alleviate poverty and promote
human resource development; and (4) rebabilitate key instructure and
reform related policies. This project is most closely related to the third
objective. The Bank has assisted the Government in formuating a two-part
poverty alleviation strategy. First, the Government is putting in place
policies which encourage broad-based economic growth. The Bank has been
supporting this part of the stategy through its adjustment loans. Second, the,
Government is seeking to improve basic services, especlly basic health
care, nutrition and primary education. The emphasis is on improving living
conditions and protecting the welfare of the poor and ensuring that they are
able to respond to employment opportunities arising frm economic growth.
This project supports the second part of the sategy. It encompasses rural
and indigenous people among whom the incidence of extreme poverty is
highest. It also focuses on vulnerable groups such as pregant and lactating
women, children and the chronically ill.



-3 -
Project Objective and Description
7.          The objective of the project is to improve health and
nutritional staus in the project area, particularly among poor women and
children, by: (a) increasing use of maten  and child health and nutrition
senrices by extending access and improving tie quaity of services; and (b)
promoting better health and nutritional practices, with an emphasis on
preventive care and education.
8.          The prcject would be carried out in three regions, in addition
to Lima: Grau, Nor Orientl del Marafion and Inka. In all, 15 provinces are
included in the project area, of which aU but 2 are classifled by the
Govenment as Umost deprived". The other two provinces are classified as
deprived". Most of the beneficiaries are in mountain communities which
include a significant share of indigenous people. According to a recent
household survey (Peru Living Standards Msement Survey, 1991), the
incidence of poerty in Peru is highest by far in the rual mountainous
region. Two-thirds of the people living there are poor and 47 percent are
extremely poor.- The incidence of poverty is also very high among the
indigenous population. Within Lima, the prqect covers the district of San
Juan je Lurigpncho, one of the poorest ares of the city. During the last
live years this district has experienced one of the most severe declines in per
capita expenditures in the city. The population covered by the project area is
enmated at 1.7 million, about 8 percent of Peru's total population of 22
million.
9.          The proposed project has five components:
(a)   Materna and Chid Health. The emphasis is on
increasing the use of preventive services in reproductive
health and the health of infants and young clhildren by
expanding access and improving quality. Services to be
supported include: prenatl and postl caze; attended
deliveries; family planning; chlonnation of community
wells; immunizations; deparasitaton; and treatment of
acute diarrheal illness and acute respiraoy infections.
Senices will be provided by professional and para-
professional staff in health centers a.id posts, as well as
hIdivis are claified as exremely poor if tdior total daily  edius ar less
thm the cost of a basic food ba    Indivda are caified as poor if their total daily
dituros are less than the cost of a basic food basket plus an estma of no-food
expnditures. So Pu Povert Asset and Sodal Policies and PmmS for the Por,
Report No. 11191-PE, May 5, 1993.



- 4 -
by community health workers, depeding on the type of
service and accessibility of the popuation. It is
expected that the bulk of preventive services would be
provided by community health workers with follow-up
visits from health cent staff.
(b) NutrItion. The project will support an expansion of
the coverage of community-based child growth
mnitoring and clnse follow-up of growth problems.
Malnourished children identified dtough growth
monitoring would be enrolled in existing food assistance
programs. The project would support the distribution
of vitamnm and mineral supplements in order to reduce
micronutrient deficiencies, especially among pregriant
women and children. This would include iron, folic
acid, vitamin A and iodine. It would also support
operations research and other studies.
(c)   Tuberculosis Treatment. The project would support
activities aimed at reducing the number of cases and
improving she efectiveness of treatment.
(d)   Ifonation, Education and Co cations (IEC).
Educational activities, community outreach and training
occupy a central role in the project The poiect would
support the implementatin of the National Plan for
and Weaing, which has identified
and communications strategies to promote
improved bxeastding and weaning practices, and the
extension of these strategies to the other components of
the project. The stategies include the use of mass
media to disseminate basic messages, community
participation and inter-personal communicaion.
Training will be provided to community health workers
and technical staff in health centers and posts in order
to help them acquire the skills needed to carry out their
responsibilities and to deliver infbrmation to potental
clients.
(e)   Management end E    on. A project cordinator,
located in the Ministry of Health, would oversee
implementaton and monitor the project. A proj*et
steering committee would provide oversight and
guidance. A three-member team under the proect



coordinator would manage the IEC component. The
progress of the project would be monitored against
annual work programs and budgets. Performance
would ba assessed against a set of key indicators on the
supply and coverage of serices and outreach and
education activities. Prqject impact will be assessed
through comparison of the findings of two surveys.
The initial survey will be carried out during the first
year of the project in order to obtain baseline
information. The second will be carried out during the
fifth year of implementation in order to measure the
results.
10.         The proposed project would finance basic medical equipment
for maternal and child health serWvces to replace obsolete and non-furctioning
equipment at about 60 primary health centers and 200 health posts and for
roughly 2,200 community health workers. The project would finance
vehcles for supervision; medicines, micronutrients and other supplies;
computers; office, printing and laboratory equipment; and basic instructional
materials for health facilities. The project would cover the costs of
operations research and technical assistance aimed at strengthening the
provision of maternal and child health services and nutrition services. The
project would also finance the services required to develop and conduct the
IEC program as well as training and impact and evaluation studies.
Project Costs and Financing
11.         The project would be carried out over six years. The total
cost is estimated at US$44.5 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$20 million or about 45 percent of the total. The proposed
Bank loan of US$34 million would finance 85 percent of total estimated costs
excluding local taxes or 80 percent including local taxes. The Bank loan
would finance about 95 percent of foreign exchange costs and 60 percent of
local expenditures. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown
in Schedule A, The Govemment's financing of a small amount of foreign
exchange costs (US$1 million) is for the foreign exchange component of
recurrent *xpenditures (drugs, medical supplies and operating and
maintenance costs), for which the share financed by the Bank would
gradually decline to 20 percent by the end of project implementation. The
financing by the Bank of local costs under the project is justified since this is
a project targeted to areas of the country where the incidence of extreme
poverty is high. Amounts and methods of procurement and the
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank group operations in Peru are given



-6 -
in Schedules C and D, epecdvey. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 11801-
PE, dted Juary 7, 1994, also is being circulated.
Project Implemeation
12.        Responsibility for implementing the project would rest with the
four su onal Directors of Health Services in the project area. It is
anticipated that non-govnmental o ons (NGOs) will cary out nmny
proect activities, given their wide experence and current work with the
Ministry of Health. The success of the project depends on effective
community participation (primarily through community health workers) and
improved community outreach on the part of health aciliies. Raher than
hire nww commuity health worke, the project would provide training and
work with exs.ing community health workers.
Lemons from Previous Bank bIvolveent
13.        Sevral reviews of previous prots have stressed the
importnce of simple project design and monitoring and evaluation in health
and nutrition. One of the main lessons derved from the 1983 Per Primary
Health Project (Ln. 2211-PB) is that project desig should be easy to
implement and any changes should be introduced gradually. The proposed
po.,ect focuses on strengthening and integn a few key health and
nutrition intervntions. Project activities wil begin in two of the four
regions and will be introduced in the rest of the project area once
implementation statgies have been tested. The mechaisms for monitoring
and evaluation were deigned dunng project preparation and the costs are
covered under the project. One lesson in monitoring from the Nutrition
Development Project (Ln. 1373-IND) in Indonesia was that these procedures
should be kept simple. The emphasis in the proposed project is on collecting
only the most critical information which is needed to track progress in
reaching the project's objectives and to guide project management. Prior
eperience in both the Primary Heah (Ln. 2211-PE) and Primary
Education (Ln. 2465-PE) Projects in Peru also suggests the importnce of:
(a) avoiding the creation of project units which duplicate units within the
sectrs; and (b) defining the responsibilities of regional staff. The proposed
project integrates management to the extent possible witiin the exisding
stucture of the Ministry of Health and the sub-regional medical offlices.
Regional staff have been involved in the design of the project, including the
definition of their rewsponsibdties. Persistent unavilability of counterpart
funding was a problem in earlier projects in Peru. The scope of this project
was reduced during project preparation, in part to lower the demand on
Government resources.



-7-
Agreed Actions
14.        At negotiations. ageement was reached that: (a) health
facilities will only be furnished with the equipment, medicine, and supplies
which are appropriate to their category, determined by staff complement as
well as other fctors. If a fachty does not meet the criteria which have been
set, the inputs agreed for a lower level of service would be provided under
the project; (b) a study evaluadng the performance of community health
workers pardcipating in the project w,-id be carried out during the second
half of 1996. Terms of reference fc- uae study would te agread with the
Bank. (c) the project coordinator would prepare and transmit to the Bank no
later than March 31, 1994, an operational manual; (d) a training strategy artd
indicathve 1994-1999 plar would be prepared by the person responsible for
education in the MEC   gement team, after consultation with the sub-
regional Directors of Headth Sevices and the project coordinator, for reviev
by the Bank not later than June 30, 1994; (e) the Government would prepare
and tansmit to the Bank by not later than November 1 of each year staring
in 1994, annual project work programs and budgets and transmit to the Bank,
begnning in 1995, annual monitoring reports of project implementation; (1) a
list of indicators (and mechanisms of data collecttin) agreed with the Bank
would be used for the purposes of project monitoring and evaluation, as well
as baseline and impact surveys, the content and timing of which have been
agreed with the Bank; (g) no change in responsibilities for project
iplementation would be made unless agreed by the Bank; (h) a Mid-Term
Review of project implementation would be held in mid-1997; and (i) the
Ministry of Health would at all times during the execution of the project have
in place suitable arrangements with one or more  o n   companies to
ensure delivery of goods procured under the project, the cost of which would
be fnanced by the Govenment or, altematively, delivery of goods to health
facilities would be specified in the prement documents.
15.        The Wowing would be a condition of         of the
proposed loan: evidence will be provided of the employment of an MEC
management team, whose qualifc .ations and experience are acceptable to the
Bank.
16.        A condition of disbursement fo drugs and medical sUies
would be that the Government has furmished to the Bank satisfactoty evidence
that suitable arangements for their distribution have been made.



- 8 -
Program Objective Categories
17.         Within the broad category of human resource development,
the project's objectives are to promote more effecive population, health and
nutrition policies and to reduce poverty. The opeatior, targets the poor by
emphasizing pnimary health activities and by erving areas of the country
where the incidence of extreme poverty is high.
Environmental Impact
18.          Since it deals mainly with purchase of equipment and
supplies, training, and capacity building, the project is not epected to have
any significant environmental impact.
Benefits, Risks and Sustalnabiity
19.        Benefits. Better health practices and the demand for key
preventive services will be promoted through the IEC campaign. The
resulting changes in behavior and increased demand, coupled with the greater
access to basic health and nutrtion services and improvements in the quality
of those services, should improve health and nutrition status in the project
area. Also, the project would promote policy and program changes that
would improve the effectiveness of the delivery of primary health and
nutrition services by assisting in the design and implementation of health and
nutrition interventions, by improving data availbility and by supporting
esearch and other analysis.
20.        Rigk. The main risk is that implementation by the
Government will be weal. This risk is addressed in two ways. First, the
project focuses on a small number of programs thereby reducing the number
of activities to be managed. The project is not supporting new programs, but
concentrates on strengthening activities which are currently being
implemented by either the Ministry of Health or NGOs. In addition, the
project envisages the use of experienced NGOs to supplement the
Government's capacity, and steps have been taken to facilitate their
participation. A second risk is fte possibility that the Government may
revise the process of decentralization of heath services during project
implementation. The project asAresses this risk by channelling project
finmcing through the central government (instead of directly to regional
governments whose status may change). In addition, any change in the
responsibilities for project implementation would have to be agreed with the
Bank. A third risk is the history of poor outreach by public health facilities,
both to the populauton and to community health workers. The project focuses
on this aspect by financing the incremental recurrent costs of increased



- 9-
supervision on a declining basis, monitoring outreach closely during project
implementation, ar.J promoting changes in attiftudes and practices through an
integrated IEC campaign. A deterioration in the security situation in Peru is
a risk to all projects in the country. The project would be located in areas of
the country which are not classiiled as emergency zones. TLhe selection of
these sites will be kept under review and would be subject to change
u%pending on security conditions.
21.         austainabilily. The sustainability of the project is expected to
be high. The expansion in coverage of material and child health services
relies on existing personnel (both community thealth workers and
professionals) and existing infrastructure. Professional staff and health
infrastructure are severc!y under-udlized in Peru, in part because of the
public's perception of the low quality of services, the lack of supplies and
equipment and the absence of sufflicient community outreach. The only
salaries to be financed by the project would be for a small number of staff to
assist with project administration. Thus the incremental annual recurrent
expenditures needed when the progum is in full operation are likely to be
small (slightly over US$1 million), coneisting mainly of drugs and supples
for the anticipated higher quality and quantity of service delivery. Drugs,
supplies and operating and :Aaintenance costs would be financed by the Bank
at rates which decrease from 80 percent to 20 percent (See also Schedule B).
Over the longer term, the Bank plans to work with the Government in the
context of sector work and future lerving in areas that would contribute to
sustainability, such as cost recovery and alternative mechanisms for service
delivery in rural areas.



- 10-
Recommendation
22.         1 am satisfied tnat the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 7, 1994



- 11 -
Schedule A
PERU
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRMTON PROJECT
Project Cot Sumary
(US$million)
Project Compoomt        -  Wal   Ereiu   T d
A. Matera and Child Heath       8.0      10.0  18.0
B. Nutrition                    1.7       1.1   2.8
C. Tuberclosis                  0.1       0.0   0.1
D. Informaton                  11.0       5.8   16.8
E. Management and Evalution     1.5       0.6   2.1
ibtal RASE-JB COSTS            22.3.     17.5  .39.8-
Physical Contingencies        0.4      0.6    1.0
Price Cotingencies            2.0      1.7   3.7
aT7       .44.I
(US$ milon)
--L   -:         - -   :.6 
Govemment             9.5      1.0      10.5
Proposed IBRD Loan   15.2     18.8      34.0
Total            24.7      19.8     44.5



- 12 -
Schedule B
ga 9                               IC Ooa                                          O
cattoryv of Exnendla                    ______              Lf              Other          Total Cot
1. Basic Medical Equipment                                                      4.0')              4.0
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 (2.3)              (2.3)
2. Non-Medical Equipment and Funiture
1.3             1.1             1.5v               3.9
(0.8)           (0.6)           (1.1)              (2.5)
3. Vehicles                                                                      l.'               1.1 
.____________________________        __________    _  ,_________            (0.7)              (0.7)
4. blucOtlonal Matedals                                         0.9             0.4                1.3
(0.7)           (0.3)              (1.0)
S. Tainiag                                                                      9.14               9.1
9.1)              (9.1)
6. TechnIcal Assistace                                                          4.10               4.1
________________________________________  _____________  _______________         (4.1)              (4.1)
7. Comniatio  Serice                            2.50                            3.8a               6.3
(2.0)                           (3.0)              (S.0)
8. Drap and Medical
Supp                                                                          9.0*               9.0
____________     ___________________                                          (5.6)              (5.6)
9. opeat   and                                                  3.0             2.7"               5.7
MaintenanceCoas                                        __ -_     _              (1-7)              (3.7)
_  _   _   _  _   _ _   _   _   _  _ _       I    L )(             3             2  h               3 . 0
a) To be procured from the stocks of one or more spec;ild internatonal organizations.
b) Local shopping on the bWa  of quotations from at leat th   suppliers.
C) Limited    radion   idding
d) Reimbursement of expenditues for training including travel and per diems, course developmen and post
evaluations.
e) Contracting of consltants and auditors in accordance with Bank Gudelines (Aut 1981).
D The major contract (estimated to totl $2.5 million) would be let in a two-stage ICB process.
g) Inluides consumabls.
Note: AN amos  ch de price and pysd conigngcia. Numbers in parsabem  are the rpecidve
aount financd by the Ba-k



- 13 -
Schedule B
PERU
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITMON PROJECr
ESTIMATEi) DISBURSEMENTS, CATEGORIES AND PERCENTAGES
(US$ millions)
corev                      Amount          Perooaage
1. Equipment and Vebicles                      5.4   65% of totl expendiures
2. listuctional Matrials                       1.0   80% of total expenditures
3. Trning                                      9.1   100% of total expenditues
4. Conmnications Services                      5.0   80% of total expenditures
S. Techical As_siae                            4.1   100% of total expenditure
6. Dmpgs and Supplies                          5.6   80% up to an aggregate
disbud amoumt of
$2,600,000 equieae;
tereafe, 70% up to an
aggregt disburd amunt
of $4,600,000 equivalent;
thereaft, 50% up to an
aggregate disbursed amount
of $5,300,000 equivalt;
and 20% teafter.
7. Fumituet                                    0.1   80% of totl expenditunr
8.  cemet Operating Costs                      3.7   80% up to an a_gge
disbused amount of
$1,500,000 equival;
uthereafte 70% up to an
aggregate disused amount
of $2,800,000 equivsalent;
heeafter, 50% up to an
aggegate disburs  amount
of $3,300,000 equivalent;
and 20% therfter.
Total                                      34.0
§          lded ~~~~IBRD Disbursmnts
(US$ million)
-Bank Fiscd Year--
1994 12 M1~~997 1998  1992 20
Annual        2.0   5.8   7.4   6.8    5.6    4.5    1.9
Cumulative    2.0   7.8  15.2  22.0   27.6   32.1   34.0



- 14 -
Schedule C
BASIC HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROE
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time ta   to be prpared:       16 months
Prepared by:                   Governnment with Bank assistance
Theresa P. Jones (1ask Manager)
Ain Colliou (Division Chief)
First Bank Misson:             April 1992
Apprisal Mission Deparu:       January 1993
Negotations:                   November 1993
Planned Date of Effectiveness:    February 1994
Lis of relevant PCRs and PPARs: PCR, Peru Primary Health Project (Loan
No. 2211-PE), November 17, 1993



- 15 -
THE STATUS OF BA= GROUP OPERATIONS TN PERU
A. SUMMARY
(As of Septemiber 30, 1993)
Amount less
-Lo loNo   YXt    Bonp                                            Cancellation    Undisued
(USS Iillion)
Sixty Two (62) Lor     fully disbursed                              1801.69
of ihich Program Loan 1'
*1693      1919     Peru           Progrm Loan
3489      1992      Peru           Financial Sector Adjustmme        400.00         100.00
3540      1993      Peru           PrivatiziouT. A.                   30.00          30.00
3595      1993      Peru           Privatiation Adjustment           250.00         175.00
361017   1993       Peru           Energy & Mining T.A.               11 80          11.80
TOTAL                                          2493.49
of which has been repaid                       899.82
Total now outstanding                         1593.67
Amount sold              18.31
of which has been repaid                        18.31
Total now held by Bank                         1575.3
Total undisbursed                                               16.80
* SECAL, SAL or Program Loan
.LI Approved during FY79
Z/ Not yet effective
NOTE:    The status of the projects listed in Purt A is descnbed in a separate report on all Bank(IDA financed
projects in execution, which is updated tice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



