Page  1
October 23, 1998 
Mr. Jorge Baca Campodónico 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
Excellency:
Perú:
Basic Health and Nutrition Project (Loan No. 3701-PE)  
Amendment to Loan Agreement 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated April 5, 1994, for the above-referenced 
Project (the Loan Agreement) between the Republic of Perú (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).  Whenever used in 
this letter, all terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the meanings therein set 
forth.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the request of the Ministry of 
Economy and Finance dated August 24, 1998, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Schedule 1: 
(a)
The Table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 shall read:
(b)
Paragraph 4 shall read as follows:
"4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under 
contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent each; and (c) consultants 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent in the case of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals, all under 
such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower."
2.
Schedule 4:  Section I:
(a)
The words "and works" are added after the word "goods" in the heading of 
the section.
(b)
Part C:  New paragraphs 4 and 5 are added to Part C to read as follows:
"4.
  (Except as provided in paragraph 5 hereof, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of works under 
this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory 
to the Bank.
5.  
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation provided however, that whenever it is not practicable 
to 
obtain more than one price quotation, civil works in remote areas estimated 
to 
cost not more than the equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded directly in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank on the 
basis of standard regionalized unit prices agreed from time to time between 
the Borrower and the Bank.  The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully."
Page  2
(c)
Part D:  Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Part D are redesignated (d) and (e) 
and new paragraphs (b) and (c) are added to Part D to read as follows:
"(b) With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply:
(c) With respect to each contract for works to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 5 above and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $80,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:"
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
(direct contracting or) (shopping) procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply."
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  The provisions of this letter 
of amendment will be effective upon receipt by the Bank of one such fully signed 
original.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru 
Latin America & Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Jorge Baca Campodónico
(Authorized Representative)
Date:
November 30, 1998
