Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 3701-PE
Loan Agreement
(Basic Health and Nutrition Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 5, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3701-PE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
Page  2
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
      of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Communications Services" means the development,
production and distribution of printed, audio-visual and
educational materials, and the design and execution of mass media
campaigns;
      (b)   "Community Health Worker" means any one of a variety
of health promotion agents in the community, including health
promoters, traditional birth attendants and child growth monitors,
provided that: (i) they have been identified and selected by their
communities; (ii) they have been active as health care providers
in the community prior to initiation of the Project; (iii) they
serve as advocates of their communities vis-a-vis the formal
health care system rather than as extension agents of the formal
health care system; and (iv) any compensation they receive is the
responsibility of the community to determine and provide;
      (c)   "Cooperative Agreement" means a contract between the
Ministry of Health and a non-governmental organization for
cooperation in matters of mutual interest but without payment of
the latter by the former;
      (d)   "Health Care Facility" means a fully-built facility
for the provision of health services that is staffed with full-
time personnel, registered by the Ministry of Health, and open to
the public;
      (e)   "Health Center" means a Health Care Facility which
services a population of between approximately 10,000 and 60,000,
has at least one full-time physician on its staff, and provides at
least the following services in addition to those available at a
Health Post: simple deliveries, treatment of severe diarrhea and
respiratory infections;
      (f)   "Health Post" means a Health Care Facility which
services a population of between approximately 2,000 and 10,000,
has at least one full-time formally trained nurse or health
auxiliary worker on its staff, and provides at least the following
services: provision of vitamins, minerals, antibiotics and
immunizations, and treatment of mild diarrhea and respiratory
infections;
      (g)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (h)   "National Plan for Breastfeeding and Weaning" means
the Ministry's plan of the same name agreed with the Bank for the
purpose of Part D of the Project;
      (i)   "Project Area" means districts and provinces selected
by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank for inclusion in the
Project;
      (j)   "Service Contract" means a contract between the
Ministry of Health and a non-governmental organization for the
supply of services by the latter paid for by the former;
      (k)   "Sub-regional Directors of Health Services" means the
Ministry's sub-regional Directors of Health Services in the
Project Area, including the Director of Medical Services for Lima;
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (m)   "year" means calendar year.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of thirty-four million dollars
($34,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizures or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
Page  4
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
            interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
            the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
            in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Borrower's Minister of Health is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate health care, nutrition, training, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with annual implementation plans approved by the Bank
as set forth in Section 3.07(a) of this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Overall coordination of the Project with
related activities of the Ministry and other ministries of the
Borrower and review of the annual plans referred to in Section
3.07 (a) below shall be the assured by a Project Steering
Committee composed of the Ministry's Director for Human Health,
the Ministry's Directors of the Offices of Planning, External
Cooperation, and Communications, the Sub-regional Directors of
Health Services, the Project Coordinator and a representative of
Page  5
the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance.
       (b)   Day-to-day monitoring of the execution of the Project
shall be assured by a Project Coordinator in the Ministry's Office
of External Cooperation, assisted by appropriate staff for
technical matters and for accounting, contracting and
administrative services. The Project Coordinator shall have
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
      (c)   Parts A, B and C of the Project shall be executed
under the direct responsibility of the Sub-regional Directors of
Health Services, assisted by appropriate staff for technical
matters and for accounting, contracting and administrative
services. Part D of the Project shall be carried out by a team of
specialists with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank.
      (d)   The Borrower shall not make any changes in the
arrange- ments set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) above
without prior discussion with, and approval of, the Bank.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that Health Care
Facilities are provided only with such goods financed under the
Project as are appropriate to their category and that they shall
receive such goods only if they meet all criteria set forth for
such category in Section 1.02 (e) or (f) of this Agreement. If all
of these criteria are not met with respect to any Health Care
Facility, such facility shall only receive the goods appropriate
to the lower level of service provided. For the purpose of this
Section, the level of service below that of a Health Post shall be
that of a Community Health Worker.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1996, carry out a study, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, evaluating the performance of
Community Health Workers participating in the Project.
      Section 3.06. Within one year of the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall carry out a baseline survey for measuring the
impact of the Project using impact indicators and a survey design
acceptable to the Bank. A copy of the results of the baseline
survey shall be forwarded to the Bank as soon as available.
      Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall,
through the Ministry:
      (a)   not later than November 1 of each year starting in
1994 furnish to the Bank for its review and approval a Project
implementation plan and budget for the next year;
      (b)   hold semi-annual reviews with the Bank on the progress
of the Project and shall, for that purpose, provide the Bank not
later than one month prior to the date of the review with a
progress report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request;
      (c)   include in each progress report referred to in
subparagraph (b) above a measurement of Project performance on the
basis of implementation indicators and data collection procedures
acceptable to the Bank;
      (d)   organize a thorough mid-term review of the Project
with the Bank and the members of the Steering Committee referred
to in Section 3.03(a) above by June 30, 1997, on the basis of the
most recent progress report, the result of the studies carried out
under Part B (2) of the Project and of the study referred to in
Section 3.05 above;
      (e)   include in the last semi-annual progress report for
1999 an impact evaluation of the Project comparing the results of
the baseline survey referred to in Section 3.06 above with those
of a survey to be conducted in 1998 using the impact indicators
Page  6
and the survey design referred to in said Section 3.06; and
      (f)   promptly take all such remedial action, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of
the Project or the attainment of its objective if, as a result of
the mid-term review described in subparagraph (d) above or any of
the semi-annual reviews referred to in subparagraph (b) above,
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of
its objective is not satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.08. Whenever the Borrower shall engage the
assistance of non-governmental organizations to assist in the
execution of any parts of the Project, it shall do so on the basis
of standard Cooperative Agreements or Service Contracts acceptable
to the Bank.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause an appropriate
training plan for the Project to be prepared by the team referred
to in Section 3.03(c) above, said plan to be approved by the Sub-
regional Directors of Health Services and discussed with the Bank
not later than June 30, 1994.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that all goods,
particularly drugs and medical and nutrition supplies, are
promptly distributed to their point of final destination upon
importation. To this end, the Borrower shall at all times during
the execution of the Project have suitable arrangements in place
with one or more transportation companies to provide such
distribution if it is not included in the procurement contract for
the goods.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
Page  7
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all members of the team referred to in Section
3.03(c) above for the execution of Part D of the Project have been
employed.
      Section 5.02. The date July 5, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Economy and Finance
            c/o Director General of Directorate
              General of Public Credit
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            Jiron Junin 319
            Lima 1, Peru
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
Page  8
written.
                         REPUBLIC OF PERU
                         By /s/ Ricardo V. Luna
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and             5,400,000        65%
     vehicles
(2)  Instructional             1,000,000        80%
     materials
(3)  Training                  9,100,000        100%
(4)  Communications            5,000,000        80%
     Services
(5)  Technical                 4,100,000        100%
     Assistance
(6)  Drugs and                 5,600,000        80% up to an
     supplies                                   aggregate dis-
                                                bursed amount
                                                of $2,600,000
                                                equivalent; there-
                                                after, 70% up to
                                                an aggregate dis-
                                                bursed amount of
                                                $4,600,000 equi-
                                                valent; there-
                                                after, 50% up to
                                                an aggregate dis-
                                                bursed amount of
                                                $5,300,000 equi-
                                                valent; and 20%
                                                thereafter
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7)  Furniture                   100,000        80%
Page  9
(8)  Incremental               3,700,000        80% up to an
     Operating                                  aggregate dis-
     Costs                                      bursed amount of
                                                $1,500,000
                                                equivalent;
                                                thereafter,
                                                70% up to an
                                                aggregate dis-
                                                bursed amount
                                                of $2,800,000
                                                equivalent;
                                                thereafter, 50%
                                                up to an aggre-
                                                gate disbursed
                                                amount of
                                                $3,300,000
                                                equivalent; and
                                                20% thereafter
                              __________
         TOTAL                34,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "incremental
operating costs" means Project-related incremental costs of the
Ministry essential to the effective implementation of the Project,
including the operation of local offices in the Project Area,
staff travel and subsistence, printing, computer and office
supplies, and maintenance of vehicles and equipment financed under
the Project; (b) the term "Instructional materials" means printed
and audio-visual materials designed to educate professional, para-
professional and Community Health Workers, as well as the public
at large, including materials which are provided to participants
in training programs, reference manuals, and child growth and
other charts to monitor health status; and (c) the term
"Communications Services" has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02 (a) of this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made for expenditures under Category (6) of the table in paragraph
1 above until the Bank has been furnished with evidence
satisfactory to it that suitable arrangements for the distribution
of drugs and supplies have been made in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures
under contracts for goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and
services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the health and
nutritional status in the Project Area, particularly among poor
women and children.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Maternal and Child Health Care
      Improvement in the utilization and quality of maternal and
child health care services in the Project Area, with particular
emphasis on preventive care in the areas of reproductive health
and the health of infants and young children, including the
provision and use of appropriate medicines, medical supplies and
equipment, and vehicles.
Page  10
Part B:     Nutrition
1.    Improvement of the nutritional status of children under
three years of age in the Project Area, particularly through
expansion of community-based child growth monitoring, close
follow-up of growth problems, and the distribution of
micronutrient supplements and antihelmintics.
2.    Carrying out of operations research and other studies in the
following general areas: (a) accuracy of recording and
interpreting child weights and counseling skills; (b) alternative
technologies for growth monitoring; and (c) development of
innovative strategies and programs (including pilot projects) for
strengthening maternal and child nutrition in rural areas with
potential for cost-effective replication.
Part C:     Tuberculosis Treatment
      Improvement of detection and treatment practices for tuber-
culosis by Community Health Workers in the Project Area, including
the provision and use of testing equipment and medicine.
Part D:     Information, Education, Communications and Training
      Implementation within the Project Area of: (a) the National
Plan for Breastfeeding and Weaning through the use of mass media,
community participation and inter-personal communication, and
execution of similar activities for maternal and child health care
and nutrition; (b) training programs for Community Health Workers
and other local health providers to enhance knowledge of
appropriate health and nutrition practices; and (c) an impact
study on the activities carried out under the Project.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1999                           635,000
February 15, 2000                         660,000
August 15, 2000                           685,000
February 15, 2001                         710,000
August 15, 2001                           735,000
February 15, 2002                         765,000
August 15, 2002                           790,000
February 15, 2003                         820,000
August 15, 2003                           850,000
February 15, 2004                         885,000
August 15, 2004                           915,000
February 15, 2005                         950,000
August 15, 2005                           985,000
February 15, 2006                       1,020,000
August 15, 2006                         1,060,000
February 15, 2007                       1,100,000
August 15, 2007                         1,140,000
February 15, 2008                       1,180,000
August 15, 2008                         1,225,000
February 15, 2009                       1,270,000
August 15, 2009                         1,320,000
February 15, 2010                       1,365,000
August 15, 2010                         1,420,000
February 15, 2011                       1,470,000
August 15, 2011                         1,525,000
February 15, 2012                       1,580,000
Page  11
August 15, 2012                         1,640,000
February 15, 2013                       1,700,000
August 15, 2013                         1,765,000
February 15, 2014                       1,835,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, Communications Services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines, subject to the following modifications thereof:
      (a)   first, technical proposals will be invited on the
basis of performance specifications and output requirements set
forth in the corresponding bidding documents;
Page  12
      (b)   on the basis of the technical proposals received, the
Borrower will revise the performance specifications and output
requirements in light of what is deemed to be the best and most
appropriate technical approach to the task at hand and so that
bids can be invited on a comparable basis;
      (c)   all bidders will be provided with the revised
performance specifications and output requirements and will be
requested to submit priced bids; and
      (d)   the bid meeting the revised performance specifications
and output requirements and offering the lowest price will be
selected for award.
3.    For fixed-price contracts to be procured in accordance with
this Part A, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
4.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
5.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $200,000.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Peru may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for drugs and medical supplies and equipment may
be awarded after direct negotiations with one or more specialized
international organizations, in accordance with arrangements and
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods (other than the ones
referred to in paragraph C.1 above) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods (other than the ones
referred to in paragraph C.1 above) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $4,600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods (including
Page  13
drugs and medical supplies and equipment) estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $200,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
together with the other information required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, but not exceeding in the aggregate
an amount equivalent to $800,000. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
Page  14
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened and that procedures for
its operations, satisfactory to the Bank, have been established,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
