Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ta,2  3§t / 3  /' (
Rep"pt& NP-5834-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
Gir THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO-US$6OO MILLION
TO
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
JULY 22, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performwance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY LZUIVALENT8
Currency Unit = Ruble
EXCHANG RATE: RUBLS PER s
Period           Official Rate           Auction/MIFCE Rate
(Average)                  (Average)
1987             0.6328                          n.a.
1988             0.6080                          n.a.
1989             0.6274                          8.9
1990             0.5856                         18.8
1991             0.5819                         59.0
................       ............................. .............. ...............................
(End of Period)        (Ea.d of Period)
Dec.,     1991             0.5571                        169.2
Jan.,     1992              n.a.                         230.0
Feb.,     1992              n.a.                         139.0
March,    1992              n.a.                         160.3
April,    1992              n.a.                         143.6
May,      1992              n.a.                         113.0
June,     1992              n.a.                         144.0
July 14,  1992              n.a.                         130.2
WBIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
AEBSREYATIONS
CBR   - Central Bank of Russia
CMEA  - Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DIIFI - Departmant for Interaction with International Financial Institutions
ECA   - Export Credit Agencies
FDI   - Foreign Direct Investment
FSU   - Former Soviet Union
GKI   - State Committee for the Management of State Property
MIFCE - Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange
PIC   - Pre-Identified Imports Component
PIU   - Project Implementation Unit
TCP   - Technical Cooperation Program
VEB   - Bank for External Economic Affairs (Vneshekonombank)
FISCAL YA
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCFIA  USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATIN LON
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROGRAK SUMBARY
Paae No.
X.  The Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.   Previous Efforts at Economic Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.   Recent Economic Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
II. Prospects and Uncertainties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
A.   Overview    ......................                            8
Stabilization  . . . . .....                 ...        9.  9
Structural Reform  .....             . . . ...  .. . 10
External Trade Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
B.   The Major Uncertainties   . . .....     ....... .   13
Political and Policy Slippages   . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Implementation Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Resource Availability       ......... . 14
sII. External Financing and Debt Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
A.   Financing Requirements, 1992-93 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
S.   Sources of Financing, 1992-93   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
C.   Debt and Debt Management  .......
D.   Creditworthiness      . . . . . ... . .20
IV. The Government's Economic Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
A.   The Macroeconomic and Stabilization Program for 1992  . . . 21
B.   Systemic Reforms  . . .         ............ 23
Enterprise Reform .................. 24
Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies . . . . . . 28
Foreign Direct Investment  . . . . . . . . . . . . ..29
Financial Sector Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Social Safety Net  . .      .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . .   .31
C.   Sectoral Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Energy ...................                             34
Agriculture  ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Health       . . .  0.     ..  .  .  .   38
Transportation and Communications  . . . . . . . . . . 39
Environment  ..................                        40
Housing and Municipal Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b' re- .ients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  Rank Assistance Strategy    . . ............. .               41
A.  Overview of the strategy  . . . . . . . . .   . . ..   . ..41
Macroeconomic and Systemic Reforms   . . . . . . . . . 41
Sector-Specific Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Social Safety Net  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
Training and Institutional Development . . . . . . . . 45
B.  Summary of the Bank's Assistance Program  . . . . . . . . . 46
Lending Program  .......  ..  ..  .   . . . .   . .46
Economic and Sector Work   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
C.  Other Bank Group Activities .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
D.  Collaboration with Other Agencies   . . . . . . . . . . . 47
VI.  The Rehabilitation Loan  . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .48
A.  origin and Objectives        . . . . . .  . . . . . 48
B.  Project Description    .    . . . .  . ....  . .   .  . . 49
C.  Implementation Responsibilities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
D.  Disbursements ........ .                  . . . . . . 52
E.  Procurement   ................ . .  .  . . .  53
F.  Agreements Reached  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
G.  Environmental Aspects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
R.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
I.  Benefits and Risks  ................... . 54
VII. Recomendation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55
Text Tables
1.  Main Economic Indicators, 1987-91 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
2.  The Balance of Payments, 1991-93  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
3.  Financing Plan, 1991-93 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
4.  External Debt, 1985-92  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Box
Summary of the Systemic Reform Program  . . . . . . . . 26, 27
Social Indicators of Develovment. 1991-92  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 58
Annexes
1.  Memorandum on Economic Reform; Policies  . . . . . . . . . . 59
2.  Timetable of Key Processing Events  . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
3.  The Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange   . . . . . 71
4.  List of Goods Eligible for Bank Disbursements under MIFCE . 73
and PIC Components
MAP IBRD No. 24004



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATION LOAN
Loan and Prooraa Summary
Borrowers                  Russian Federation.
Amount:                    US$600 million equivalent.
Terms:                     Repayment in 15 yea-s, including 5 years grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Description:               The proposed loan would provide foreign exchange to
finance imports needed in support of Russia's
program of stabilization and economic reform. The
Russian Government has embarked on a comprehensive
effort to restructure the economy on the basis of
market principles emphasizing private sector
initiatives in the productive sectors. The initial
stages of the reform program :lave already been
implemented with the liberalization of most retail
and wholesale prices during the first quarter of
1992 and the unification of the exchange rate on
July 1, 1992. A policy framework of systemic and
structural reforms has been developed with the
assistance of the Bank in the following areas:
enterprise reform (including privatization), pro-
competition and anti-monopoly policies, foreign
direct investment, financial sector reforms, and
establishment of a social safety net. The proposed
Rehabilitation Loan would support these reforms in
the context of a sound macroeconomic framework for
stabilization being supported by an IMF First
Credit Tranche Arrangement.
Disbursementss             The proposed loan would be divided into two
components: (1) Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency
Exchange -- $250 million to finance imports
purchased by the growing commercial private sector;
and (2) Pre-Identified Imports Component -- $350
million to finance a priority list of critical
imports for the agriculture, health, transport and
coal sectors.



Benefits and Risks:         The potential benefits to be derived from a
successful reform program in Russia are enormous.
Russia possesses vast natural wealth and a high
level of educational development and technological
achievement. The legal and institutional
structures underlying successful market economies
will take time to develop in the Russian
environment. Nevertheless, provided that the
Government maintains a consistent approach to
reforms, and provided that investment can increase
rapidly in the private sector, there is a good
chance that Russia will be able to stop its
declining production trends and begin to make
substantial in-roads into the backlog of
rehabilitation investment that is needed to revive
economic growth.  The major hope in this respect is
by generating foreign exchange through the export
of energy and minerals.
While the potential benefits of a successful reform
program are clear, the risks relating to its
satisfactory implementation are substantial. The
major sources of uncertainty include: (i) golitical
and policy slippages, based on the difficulty of
implementing both stabilization and structural
reform programs simultaneously; (ii) limited
implementation caRacity due to the radical
transformation in the institutional framework
required to manage a modern market economy; and
(iii) resource availability, given the high
financial cost of supporting a successful
adjustment program, especially in the initial
years. To these problems should be added the
golitical risks inherent in a highly fragmented
democratic structure with severe ethnic and
jurisdictional tensions at the local level.
IBRD No.24004



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
l.        I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation
on a proposed Rehabilitation Loan to the Russian Federation for an amount
equivalent to $600 million to help finance imports in support of a program of
macroeconomic stabilization and systemic and structural reforms. The loan
would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 15
years, including 5 years of grace.1L
2.        The Russian Federation joined the IBRD and IDA (as a Part I member)
on June 16, 1992. An economic mission visited Russia in March/April 1992, and
a report on the current economic situation will be distributed to the Board
shortly.
I. THE ECONOMY
A.        Previous Efforts at Economic Reform
3.        The economic reform program now being implemented in Russia under
the leadership of President Yeltsin and Acting Prime Minister Gaidar follows
several earlier, but unsuccessful, attempts at partial economic reform.
Perestroika, or economic restructuring, began in the mid-1980s after a period
of declining growth rates and increasing dissatisfaction with the performance
of the Soviet economy. Net material product in real terms increased at 8
percent annually in the second half of the 1960s, but this growth rate fell to
about 3 percent in the first half of the 1980.. These official figures
probably underestimate inflation and overestimate real growth, however, and
real output per capita was probably stagnant in the first half of the 1980s.
High levels of both investment and military spending restricted private
consumption. The economy was inefficient; growth rates were low in relation
to the rates of investment.   The economy was slow to introduce new technology
or to respond to changes in consumer demand. The quality of consumer goods
was generally poor. There was broad support for the view that something had
to be done to improve economic performance, but little agreement on just what
was needed.
4.        Perestroika, accompanied by alasnost, had its beginning in 1985.
Initially it involved a substantial increase in social expenditures, but
little reform of economic structures. This changed when, at the start of
1988, the new Law of State Enterprises went into effect. This law was a major
change from the command economy. Mandatory output targets for enterprises
were replaced by "state orders," and enterprises were given substantial
freedom regarding the disposition of production in excess of the amount called
1/ Russia is classified as an upper-middle income country for IBRD borrowing
on the basis of the current provisional estimate of GNP per capita.



-2-
for by the state orders. The new law also gave eaterprise managers
considerable freedom in managerial decisions, particularly regarding wages and
bonuses.
5.        By 1990, it was clear that this partial economic restructuring was
not working well. Consumers, in particular, faced growing shortages, long
lines, and empty shulves. These shortages were caused, not by a decline in
the supply of goods, but rather by large increases in monetary demand
accompainied by a very modest increase in the available supply of goods. The
increase in monetary demand resulted partly from Gosbank's financing of
greatly increased budgetary deficits and partly from the wage increases that
followed the introduction of the Law of State Enterprises.
6.        In almost any other country, the result of such an expansion of
monetary demand would have been inflation. But in the Soviet Union, where
prices were fixel, the supply-demand imbalance resulted in shortages of goods,
forced savings by households, and a growing monetary overhang. The secondary
effects included hoarding, barter, black markets, "dollarization" and
restrictions on the internal movement of goods. The growing prevalence of
barter trade disrupted supply links for producers, making the economy still
less efficient and adding to the shortages.
7.        At the Economic Summit in Houston in July 1990, the leaders of the
G-7, with the agreement of President Gorbachev, asked four international
organizations (the IMF, World Bank, OECD and EBRD) to undertake a study of the
Soviet economy.L The objectives of this "Joint Study" were to make
recommendations for the reform of the Soviet economy and establish the
criteria under wnich Western economic assistance could effectively support
such reforms.
8.        In early September 1990, when the Joint Study was starting, there
already existed two competing economic reform programs. They were the
"Shatalin 500 day" program and the "Ryzhkov" program. When it came to
economic reform, the proposals of the group headed by Academician Shatalin
were both bolder and more specific than those of Prime Minister Ryzhkov.  But
what proved to be an important difference between them was that the Prime
Minister's program emphasized a strong Union government, while the Shatalin
program proposed transferring major powers to the individual republics.
9.        An attempt was made to reach a compromise between the two programs.
The hope was that the compromise would then be approved by the Supreme Soviet
of the USSR and, following this, by each of the 15 republics. The uncertainty
and drift on economic reform policies would thus be brought to an end.
V The conclusions of the "Joint Study" are summarized in The Economy of the
USSR -- Summary and Recommend ISQB, published in December 1990 by the World
Bank on behalf of the four orcknizations. The collected background papers
prepared as part of the study are contained in the three volume report, ,
Study of the Soviet Economv, published by the OECD on behalf of the four
organizations.



However, the effort at compromise failed. The outcome was limited to
Presidential Guidelines" for stabilization and economic reform, which were
approved by the Suprema Soviet on October 19, but never approved at the
republican leve'. Moreover, the guidelines were more of an extended statement
of objectives than a detailed program for reaching these objectives.
10.       In the following months, there was a "conservative" or "right wing"
reaction to the worsening economic situation. A number of important economic
reformers left their governmental posts. Factors contributing to this
reaction no doubt included: (i) some discrediting of the economic reform
effort from the apparent failure of the earlier partial reforms; (it) growing
concerns regarding ethnic conflicts and the possible fragmentation of the
USSR; (iii) the proposed cuts in the military budget, which would seriously
affect both the armed services and the defense industries; and (iv) a not
surprising fear of lose of power by those in the traditionally powerful state
and party organs.
11.       Reacting to both the politic;. events in the Baltic Republics and
the failure to make progress with an economic reform effort, by the end of
January 1991 the major Western industrial countries were putting their plans
for both food aid and technical assistance "on the back burner." During the
first half of 1991, the economy continued to deteriorate, particularly
industrial productioL. This was due to a variety of causes, including the
collapse of exports to the CMEAf declines in defense production, strikes and
ethnic disputes, and added difficulties in obtaining imported inputs as a
result of the worsening balance of payments situation. The continuing decline
in petroleum production and exports, large debt service obligations,
substantial capital flight and a withdrawal of Western banks all contributed
to the balance of payments problems.
12.       In the spring of 1991, the prospects for economic reform seemed to
improve. In April, the first draft of an "Anti-Crisis Program" was circulated
by Prime Minister Pavlov. Food subsidies were drastically reduced, a
necessary if not sufficient step to get the budget deficit under control. On
April 23, the "9+1 agreement" took place, in which nine of the republics
agreed to work with the Union government to coztplete an acceptable anti-crisis
economic reform program and a new Union Treaty. In May, a group of Soviet
economists began work with several Cambridge (Massachusetts) professors to
draft a reform program, covering political as well as economic changes, that
they hoped would be acceptable to both the republics of the USSR and the major
Western nations. Their proposal, titled "Window of Opportunitys Joint Program
for Western Cooperation in the Soviet Transformation to Democracy and the
Market Economy," became known as the "Grand bargain" in part because of its
emphasis upon large scale economic assistance from the West.
13.       In July, President Gorbachev met in London with the G-7 heads of
state at the conclusion of their annual Economic Summit. - i Soviet leader
emphasized his country's determination to establish a marke-. economy that
would be integrated into the world economy. Within the Soviet Union, however,
discussion of economic reform was overshadowed by ethnic and nationalist
disputes mixed with competition for political power. The failure of the coup



-4-
in August did not immediately change this situation. Efforts to agree upon an
economic reform program for the Soviet Union as a whole continued in
September, but finally had to be abandoned as the Unioz. progressively lost
power to the individual republics. In October, President Yeltsin brought a
team of convinced economic reformers into the Government of the Russian
Federation, and they set about to design the economic reform program that was
initiated in 1992.
S.        Recent Economic Developments
14.       The deterioration of the economy accelerated during 1991.  Compared
with the previous year, GDP declined by 9 percent in real terms, with
industrial output falling by 8 percent and gross agricultural output by 5
percent (Table 1). In an effort to maintain fiscal balance, the Government
cut back sharply on investment, including investment finai..ed through state
enterprises, so that total fixed investment fell by 23 percent as compared to
1990. Union government revenues declined sharply as the republics (notably
Russia) withheld revenues earmarked for the federal budget, and Russia offered
tax incentives for enterprises to transfer from Union to republican
jurisdiction. Political events destabilized public expenditures, as the
Government authorized a number of large transfers to the population and to
enterprises. As a result, the consolidated deficit of the former Soviet Union
(FSU) soared to 26 percent of GDP by year's end. Russia's own deficit
(including central bank operations) rose to 31 percent of GDP, one of the
largest government deficits in recent record.
15.       Fiscal imbalances led to a rapid increase in the money supply, which
rose by 77 percent during 1991. In combination with the initial efforts at
price reform introduced in April 1991, there was a sharp increase in
inflation. Compared with the prior year, industrial wholesale prices
increased by 138 percent for 1991 as against 4 percent for the previous year.
Retail prices increased by 90 percent over the 1990 average. Nominal incomes
and savings of the population also increased rapidly, partly on account of
large budgetary transfers (amounting to 11 percent of GDP, mostly in the form
of increases in savings balances) following the ill-fated attempt at price
reform in April 1991. Thus, the problem of monetary overhang continued,
despite high inflation.
16.       With the removal of most price controls on January 2, 1992, there
was an explosion of inflation. Retail prices increased six-fold in the first
three n.onths of 1992 (as compared to December 1991), while wholesale prices of
industrial products rose eight-fold during the first two months. The dramatic
price liberalization measure of January 2, 1992, eliminated price controls on
80 percent of goods at the wholesale level and 90 percent of consumer goods.
In March price liberalization was extended to a few other essentials that had
remained under controls after January 2. There was a six-fold increase in
crude oil prices in May, but energy prices remain far below world levels. The
May increase brought the price for crude oil to 2,200 rubles per metric ton,
but this was still only about one-seventh of the world price at the exchange
rate then in effect. Even though the monthly rate of inflation may slow to
about 10 percent by December, the average price level is expected to increase



Tabk 1. Main &onomic Indicators, 1987-91
1987    1988    1989     1990      1991
Real growth (percent change from prior year)
GDP                                                          ..      ..      ..      0.4      -9.0
Industrial output, gross                                    3.5     3.8     1.4      0.1       -8.0
Agricultural output, gross                                 -1.2     3.3     1.7     -3.6      -4.7
Fixed investment                                            6.0     7.6     4.1       0.1    -2(:
Household purchases of goods and services                   2.7     6.6     1.8      2.2    -11.0
Net material product (NMP)                                  0.7     4.6     1.9      -3.6    -11.0
Agriculture                                              -3.0     4.0      2.8     -6.2
Industry                                                  1*7     6.2      2.0     -2.2
Consumption                                               2.7     4.0      5.4      2.0
Accu.nulation                                             -5.4    15.0   -6.1    -22.5
Prices and wages (percent change from prior year)
NMP deflator                                                0.9     1.1     5.0       6.9    114.0
Industrial wholesale prices                                -0.9     2.7     1.2       3.9    138.0
Retail prices of goods                                      2.0     0.0     6.0       5.6     90.4
Nominal average industrial wage                             3.0     8.7     9.9      13.0     86.6
Real average industrial wage                                1.1     8.7     3.8       7.0     -2.0
Fiscal accounts (percent of GDP)
Government revenues                                          ..      ..      ..       ..      28.0
Govemment expenditures                                       ..      ..      ..       ..      47.9
Fiscal deficit                                               ..      ..      ..       ..      19.9
Fiscal deficit including Central Bank operations             ..      ..      ..        ..     30.9
M2 growth (percent change from end previous year)           15.5   14.0    14.6       17.6      77.2
Current account and trade balance
(excluding trade with the 14 republics, US$ billion)
Current account balance, including gold sales                ..      ..      ..    -4.         3.4
Trade balance, excluding gold                                ..    ..        ..    -2.0        5.8
Memo items (1987=100):
Real industriai wage index                                  100    108.7   112.8   120.6    118.2
Real fixed investment index                                 100    107.6   112.0   112.1    100.0
Source: Governiient and World Bank Estimaies
Denotes not avaiable
over 20 fold between 1991 and 1992. This is an amount far greater than in any
other reforming socialist country during the year tollowing price
liberalization. ef Price increases of this magnitude can be only partially
explained by suppressed consumption demand resulting  from the moneta_y
overhang. Additional factors include the flight out of money into inventories
and foreign exchange (especially by enterprises) due to adverse expectations
and negative real interest rates, and monopolist pricing practices by state
enterprises.
a Poland, for example, experienced inflation of 249 percent in 1990
following price liberalization.



- 6 -
17.       Despite the drop in output in 1991, employment fell by about only 1
percent, implying a sharp deterioration in average labor productivity.
Nominal wages increased rapidly, so that real wages during 1991 remained at
roughly the same level as in 1990, well above the level prevailinq in 1987.
Following price liberalization in January, 1992, real wages have fallen by
May, 1992 to roughly the level in 1987.
18.       These comparisons overstate the impact of price liberalization on
consumption, however, as a large part of the compensation package (such as
housing and other non-wage benefits) is immune to inflation, and much of the
implicit increase in real wages between 1987 and 1991 could not be used for
consumption because of supply constraints, resulting instead in a build-up of
monetary balances. Price liberalization and inflation has led to changes in
the distribution of real income, however, notably at the expense of
pensioners.
19.       Following price liberalization, the Government's first priority has
been financial stabilization. Much of the burden falls on fiscal adjustment.
The Government introduced new taxes at the beginning of 1992, including a
value-added tax and excise taxes to replace the sales and turnover taxes used
under the centrally-planned economy. Expenditures were reduced through cuts
in defense epending, subsidies, investment and administration costs.  But,
when one consolidates the budgets of the federal and local government, and
adds extrabudgetary funds and import subsidies, the deficit for the first half
of the year is estimated at 19 percent of GDP. While well below the 30
percent figure for 1991, it is clear that substantial additionil fiscal effort
is required.
20.       Although sustainable stabilization calls for a fiscal-first
approach, monetary policy must be consistent with a steady reduction in the
rate of inflation. As mentioned above, interest rates have been negative
throughout the first half of 1992, with the CBR finance rate increasing ±n
stages to 80 percent in June, 1992. While in these circumstances the demand
for credit was natu' lly very large, the supply of banking system credit was
limited. Although credit to the rest of the economy (i.e., excluding general
go"ernment) doubled between December and May, prices rose roughly 8-fold
du_.ng the same period.  The result was a serious lack of working capital at
the same time as inventories were tending to increase. This situation has led
to the rapid growth of interenterprise arrears and also to increasing demands
for a more relaxed credit policy. To some extent, these demands are now being
accommodated, in part to help clear up the problem of interenterprise arrears.
The rapid growth in arrears is perhaps the most serious threat to monetary
stability, with the level of arrears increasing from 40 billion rubles at the
beginning of January to 1600 billion rubles in May and reportedly close to
3000 billion rubles in July. Some of these arrears are reportedly owed to the
banking system.
21.       The substantial changes in the economic environment and the
increasing political uncertainties also had dramatic effects on the balance of
payments for the Soviet Union in 1990-91. In 1990, the current account
registered a deficit of about $20 billion and, in addition, substantial



pressures occurred on the capital account. Commercial banks eliminated over
$10 billion in short term credit lines, primarily in response to the
increasing political uncertainties. Reportedly, capital flight also
increased. In order to meet amortization obligations, international reserves
were drawn down by $7 billion.
22.       The situation was further aggravated by the breakdown in foreign
trade relations during 1991; the CMEA trade system was abolished from the
beginning of the year and world market prices and convertible currency
settlements were introduced, at least in principle. In addition, barter trad?
was prohibited from the outset of the year and then partially re-introduced as
of July 1. In the aftermath, Soviet trade with the CMEA area basically
collapsed.
23.       External trade data cannot be reliably disaggregated for Russia
alone, and what exists is unreliable, but indications show that similarly
drastic developments occurred for Russia for 1991 as for the Soviet Union.
Exports reportedly fell by over 25 percent in 1991, led by a sharp drop in oil
exports. Imports, however, are believed to have been cut nearly in half
primarily because of accumulated pressure on the capital account. The trade
balance for Russia is estimated to have improved from a small deficit in 1990
to a surplus of about $6 billion in 1991.
24.       In spite of the improved trade performance in 1991, the foreign
reserve situation deteriorated further. Commercial banks continued their
dramatic retreat and capital flight intensified. Commercial creditors
eliminated an estimated $4-5 billion in credit lines and medium and long-term
claims. Estimates of capital flight vary greatly, but numbers in the range of
another $4-5 billion for 1991 are believed by the authorities to be likely.
In addition, enterprises started placing their dollar deposits in domestic
commercial banks now authorized to receive such deposits. In this
environment, a significant increase in disbursements and grants from bilateral
sources to around $8 billion could not prevent official reserves from being
virtually eliminated.
25.       In summary, the Government has taken a number of courageous steps
during the first half of 1992, but much more remains to be done. The next two
sections discuss the main outliW.es of the Government's stabilization program
and the structural measures being adopted to begin the transformation to a
market-based economy that is integrated with the rest of the world. However,
the fact is that the economic situation remains highly fragile. There is a
clear possibility that the economy could slip into hyperinflation and/or
experience further sharp declines in cutput.  The major uncertainties facing
the adjustment program are therefore briefly outlined at the end of the next
section.



II.  PROSPECTS AND tNCERTAINTIES
A.        Overview
26.       The magnitude of the transformation to be undertaken in Russia is
unprecedented in terms of the scale of the economic, social and pol ;.cal
changes that are required. Such a transition would not be easy unde. the best
of circumstances. On the contrary, Russia has already experienced a
substantial decline in output since 1990, and even with reform, it faces the
prospect of a continuing decline for at least the next year or so.
27.       The Government is faced with the need to address simultaneously
short-term stabilization and structural reforms that will provide the supply
response needed over the medium term for economic recovery. As outlined in
Part IV, the IMF's First Credit Tranche Arrangement is designed to help create
a sound macroeconomic framework by supporting the initial steps needed to
reduce the fiscal deficit, curb credit expansion and restore external
viability. The Government has already taken a number of important initiatives
in the area of structural reform -- for example, the Privatization Program for
1992 was approved by the Supreme Soviet in June, a Presidential Decree on
bankruptcy was issued on June 14, and another recent Presidential Decree
requires that all large-scale state enterprises (other than joint ventures and
enterprises which are privatized directly) should be corporatized by November
1 as a first step towards privatization. The Government has recently
forwarded to the Supreme Soviet for discussion a medium-term program that
looks beyond the immediate problems of macroeconomic stabilization toward
measures required to achieve sustainable economic g-owth. Many of the actions
contained in this plan are included in the attached Memorandum on Economic
Reform Policies (Annex 1), which outlines the specific actions to be supported
under the proposed Rehabilitation Loan.
28.       The main elements of a successful stabilization and adjustment
program over the next two to three years can be summarized in the following
way:
Reduction of the fiscal deficit financed by the domestic banking
system to 2 percent or less of GDP.
Limiting credit expansion to achieve a gradual decline in the
monthly rate of inflation to low single-digit levels.
Establishment of a social safety net capable of protecting the
population most affected by reform.
Implementing a substantial program of privatization backed by
enterprise restructuring, reform of the financial sector and active
enforcement of anti-monopoly policies.
Initiation of sectoral reform programs, especially in oil and gas
and the food sector, to boost production. These programs should be
supported by selective investments in infrastructure to improve
efficiency and expand capacity.



Mobilization of external financial support of around $20 billion a
year in 1992 and 1993 in support of the reform program.
29.       Even with successful implementation of the reform program, a decline
in output of around 15 percent or more is expected during 1992, with a further
decline, perhaps in the range of 5 percent, during 1993. If all goes well,
the decline in output should be halted by 1994, and some expansion may get
underway thereafter. By then, measured output will have declined by about
one-third since the start of the downturn in 1991. Since most of the
reduction so far has been in investment, the immediate pressure on consumption
has been socially and politically manageable, but the situation may become
more difficult if the duration of the downturn is extended.
30.       An important feature of the adjustment process is the development of
greater flexibility in the labor market. Successful adjustment will, in all
likelihood, mean that manufacturing, the military, and to a lesser extent
agriculture, will all release labor over the next several years. The service
sector can be an important source of growth in incomes and new employment in
the early phases of reform. Policies to promote privatization and entry of
new firms into the service industries are of particular importance. Even so,
as many as 3-4 million people, representing 5-6 percent of the labor force,
may become unemployed within a year.
Stabilization
31.       Critical to the success of a medium-term reform program will be a
successful stabilization process that manages to restore internal and external
balances. The challenge will be to ensure that stabilization does not lead to
an excessive contraction of output and employment levels that could destroy
the credibility of the process or impede the structural reforms that are vital
to the stabilization effort itself. This will require a judicious balancing
of fiscal/monetary reforms, together with the creation of a more viable trade
and exchange rate regime.
32.       A successful stabilization strategy must rely on a reduction in the
overall fiscal deficit to a level that can be financed largely by foreign
inflows, rather than borrowing from the domestic banking system. Continued
efforts at tax reform, especially through more efficient tax administration,
and expenditure rationalization to eliminate unnecessary subsidies and low
priority expenditures are essential for this effort. Up to now, the
Government has relied on sharp cuts in investment spending (including
operations and maintenance) and shifting of expenditure responsibilities to
lower levels of government to try to balance its obligations with the
available resources. This is not a sustainable strategy in the medium term,
and a careful look at the pattern of government expenditures and a more
positive approach to carefully targeted programs is needed to maintain
essential public services such as health.
33.       A realistic credit policy must balance the objectives of slowing
inflation (by slowing credit, and hence monetary expansion) while avoiding a
liquidity squeeze that would lead to a further abrupt decline in output and



- 10 -
employment. A credit policy that is too loose will support neither the
control of inflation nor provide the needed stimulus for industrial
restructuring. However, a credit policy that is too restrictive will
encounter strong political opposition and is likely to be abandoned and be
replaced by a generalized "bailout" of state enterprises. Finding the right
path between these two dangers will be one of the most important, but also one
of the most difficult, tasks of Russia's economic managers. During the first
quarter of 1992, real credit to the economy fell by about 75 percent, as
prices rose almost four times as fast as the increase in bank lending to non-
budgetary borrowers. The resulting credit squeeze played a central role in
the rapid increase in inter-enterprise arrears and the subsequent decision by
the Government to sanction new lines of credit to cover the arrears. While it
is essential that there should be some recovery in real credit (accompanied by
a reduction in inter-enterprise arrears), it is equally essential that the
increase in credit be directed towards firms which are undertaking the
necessary restructuring and are likely to be viable in the longer term. Given
the limitations of the present commercial banking system and the problems
associated with having a bureaucracy "pick the winners and the losers", this
will not be an easy task.
34.       The maintenance of a workable monetary policy will also depend on a
successful resolution of the currently unsettled trade and monetary
relationships within the FSU. The generation of appropriate signals to guide
the allocation of resources and expose the many hidden subsidies under the
previous economic system will be facilitated by the establishment of a unified
exchange rate system and the dismantling of the comprehensive system of export
and import controls. As the stabilization program begins to take hold,
pegging the ruble rate in real terms to provide a nominal anchor for the
stabilization program should be feasible.
Structural Reform
3s.       The major elements of the structural reform program outlined in Part
IV include: (i) tapping the latent potential for growth in the energy and
agriculture sectors; (ii) successful industrial restructuring through
enterprise reform, privatization and conversion of the military-industrial
complex; (iii) financial sector reform; (iv) rehabilitation and expansion of
the infrastructure base; and (v) strengthening social protection.
36.       Central to the success of the reform strategy is the development of
Russia's vast enerav resources, which offer the best prospects for restoring
external viability and generating the financial surpluses needed to transform
the rest of the economy. Expanding petroleum production and growing export
earnings offer the potential of financing the much higher levels of imports
that Russia desperately needs over the longer run. The establishment of an
appropriate incentive structure and legal framework to mobilize foreign
investment will be essential to achieve this objective, not only to import the
necessary equipment but also to obtain access to foreign technology.



- 11 -
37.       The priority in agriculture is to change the institutional structure
of production, establish an appropriate incentive regime, and restore
profitability. Over time, this approach can gradually eliminate Russia's need
to import grain, while providing incentives to downeize the large and
inefficient livestock sector. Increased investment will be needed to
strengthen the delivery of inputs and services and to revamp marketing,
distribution and agro-processing systems.
38.       Industrial restructuring is likely to be the most difficult part of
the reform program, given the combination of declining output and large labor
force retrenchment likely to take place as a result of the reforms. Rapid
progress on privatization, combined with vigorous enforcement of anti-monopoly
policies, is vital to achieve positive results in this area. Imposition of a
hard budget constraint on enterprises, including a reduction of inter-
enterprise arrears, is necessary to start the restructuring process, as well
as to control the growth of credit in the economy and achieve macroeconomic
stabilization.
39.       The development of viable enterprises, including the agricultural
sector, requires that resources should be allocated on the basis of expected
profitability. The present structure of the financial system does not meet
this objective, and substantial restructuring of the banking system will be
needed to develop institutions that can mobilize and allocate financial
resources on the basis of sound commercial principles.
40.       Support for private sector development will require selective new
investments in infrastructure, particularly transportation (highways and
ports), telecommunications, power supply and distribution systems, municipal
infrastructure, and environmental management and improvement. In many
instances, these services have deteriorated under financial stress or may
become obsolete under market conditions. Large investments to rationalize and
rehabilitate infrastructure networks will be needed. While financing may be
available for this purpose through export credits and international financial
institutions, increased domestic resource mobilization will have to meet the
bulk of the needs on a sustained basis.
41.       Augmented social orotection programs, including provision of
unemployment benefits, job retraining, and targeted intervention to protect
those who fall below the poverty line, can alleviate the immediate impact of
economic reforms on the most affected population, but a permanent solution
must come from job creation and changes in the skill mix to meet the needs of
a market-oriented economy.
External Trade Prospects
42.       Russia is likely to run substantial trade deficits for the
foreseeable future as import demand outstrips growth in exports. The trade
account has already shifted from a substantial surplus in 1991 to a projected
deficit of $2-3 billion for 1992. In moving to a market economy, maintenance
of adequate levels of imports is essential to complement limited domestic
supplies, both to sustain production as well as to meat humanitarian needs.
Early attention to policies and programs that promote exports will also be an
important part of the adjustment process.



- 12 -
43.       At the present time, oil deliveries to other former republics are
being made roughly in line with a 20 percent reduction stipulated in the
bilateral trade agreements. Domestic consumption is not falling as rapidly as
production, however, leading to an anticipated fall in exports of oil to the
rest of the world of 15-20 percent in 1992. Gas export earnings are also
likely to decline significantly as sharply lower prices outweigh somewhat
higher volumes. Consequently, aggregate energy export earnings are projected
to decline slightly in 1992. The more dramatic change is the projected
decline in non-energy exports by almost 50 percent due to disruption of
production, trade restrictions and shortages of domestically produced and
imported inputs.
44.       The export outlook for 1993 and beyond is highly speculative at this
time. Oil export earnings in convertible currencies are likely to increase
significantly as domestic oil consumption begins to fall more sharply, and
deliveries to the former Soviet republics are reduced further. In the longer
term, oil and gas exports can be expected to grow relatively quickly if Russia
succeeds in attracting the necessary foreign direct investments to spur
production. Privatization of enterprises, along with the introduction of
appropriate incentives, including exchange rate policies, will gradually
improve the prospects for exports of manufactured commodities. These
developments could eventually lead to sharply higher exports earnings and
provide the necessary resources to finance much higher levels of imports
needed to restructure the economy and restore GDP growth to levels of 5
percent or more in the latter part of the 1990s.
45.       The level of imports will continue to be limited by the tight
foreign exchange situation; imports in 1992 are projected to fall by another
15-20 percent on top of the nearly 50 percent decline experienced in 1991.
The bulk of the decline, stemming from the drop in economic activity, has been
in imports of capital and intermediate goods. Consumer goods imports,
including food, have stabilized, largely because of the humanitarian aid
extended thus far and the resources available through the Moscow Inter-Bank
Foreign Currency Exchange which has provided a source of funding for goods in
greatest demand.
46.       The continuing fall-off in imports is a major concern.  The move to
a market economy will be delayed, and possibly even derailed, if output and
hzousehold consumption continue to fall precipitously. To meet immediate needs
as output falls, imports can help cushion consumption, particularly for
humanitarian purposes, including food and medical supplies. Imports of
materials, spare parts and machinery are essential to maintain oil and gas
production, which is central to the longer-term viability of Russia's external
position, in addition to supporting agricultural production and preventing a
further deterioration in public services, such as municipal transport.
47.       For 1993 and beyond, even allowing for a sharp increase in oil
exports, the trade deficit is projected to increase as imports rebound from
currently depressed levels. The bulk of the increase would be in capit-l and
intermediate goods, assuming increased financial support from export credit
agencies and multilateral institutions. If the current reform program



- 13 -
succeeds, the recovery in growth will eventually lead to an upsurge in both
consumption and investment, placing additional pressures on imports. Thus, a
sustainable program of reforms must be based on a carefully designed and
adequately funded schedule of external financial flows since realistically,
foreign commercial flows will lag rather than lead adjustment.
B.        The Maior Uncertainties
48.       The scenario outlined above, which is based on a mutually
reinforcing program of stabilization measures and systemic/structural reforms
supported by adequate external financing, poses unusual and daunting
challenges. The three main categories of risk include: (a) a weakening of
political commitment to reform, leading to policy slippages; (b) inadequate
implementation capacity; and (c) shortfalls in the availability of external
financing. Shortcomings in any of these areas could produce substantially
higher inflation, stagnant or declining living standards and/or rising
unemployment. The political backlash resulting from this situation could
derail the reform process.
49.       Political and Policy Slitppaaes.   Russia's dilemma is that both
structural reforms and stabilization must be done simultaneously. Without
enterprise adjustment and restructuring, stabilization cannot be maintained,
and the need to do both at once is likely to increase the short-term costs of
adjustment. Moreover, the short-term pay-off of the program of reforms is
likely to be disappointing. The recovery in growth in the mid-to-late 1990.
will undoubtedly be slow. Rising unemployment, together with the necessary
restraints on wage increases, will squeeze real consumption levels for several
years. This may create pressures on policy-makers to ease up on the necessary
reforms. In the currently fluid and delicate political relationships between
the executive branch and parliament and between the center and the local
authorities, the absence of near-term tangible economic progress will sharpen
the ongoing conflicts over the control of resources and the course of reforms.
50.       In these circumstances, wavering and haphazard reform is quite
plausible, even the possibility of slipping into hyperinflation can not be
discounted. Under this scenario, enterprise restructuring falters,
privatization moves slowly, and the ensuing pressures on the budget and
monetary system makes stabilization a stop-and-go affair. Fiscal and monetary
policy become erratic, and the lack of creditworthiness leads to continuing
dependence on official sources of external financing, increasing uncertainty
and minimizing foreign investment. This situation would feed on itself
through lower export growth of oil and gas, leading to continued compression
of imports. At worst, hyperinflation would result, destroying the fabric of
the economy.
51.       Implementation Capacity.  The second major source of uncertainty
centers on the capacity of the Government to implement its stabilization and
structural reform program. The formulation of a sound adjustment program by
itself is not enough; it must be implemented. A major effort is needed to
develop such a capacity within Government. The transformation of the
political and institutional structures from the old Soviet system to a new



- 14 -
regime suitable for democratic processes and in support of market-oriented
activities will require a radical transformation of the institutional
framework for decision-making and implementation. It will also mandate the
establishment of a predictable legal framework for market-based economic
activity.
52.       At present, decision-making is highly concentrated among a small
number of reformers. As the range of decisions and the complexity of issues
increases, decentralization of authority is essential if the pace of reforms
is to be sustained. Timely and effective implementation of the structural and
sectoral reform program will require a substantial strengthening of
institutional capacities -- both at the center to establish priorities in the
reform agenda and allocate'resources to support these priorities, in the line
ministries and specialized.institutions to undertake these programs, and in
the local government bodies. The extent of the new processes to be installed
and skills to be acquired cannot be overstated. In addition, the conduct of
the most basic economic activities consistent with market principles will
require, for example, substantial strengthening of the legal institutions,
creating a capacity within gevernment to procure goods and services under
conditions of competitive bidding, and a system of financial control and audit
to ensure proper use of publLc and donor funds.
53.       Resource Availabilitv.  External resources will play a critical role
in facilitating an orderly and sustainable adjustment process. The
sustainability of large official inflows will depend heavily on the
Government's performance in maintaining the reform program and on the
establishment of effective arrangements for the management of such assistance.
slippages in either of these areas may lead to reductions in both private and
official capital inflows. Delayed access to foreign investment would
undermine the chances of rapid recovery in the critical oil and gas sectors,
while reductions in official capital inflows (including guaranteed export
credits) would constrain the balance of payments and limit the recovery of
import levels. Thus, risks related to resource availability are closely
linked to t-he credibility of the Government's overall reform program, as well
as to the willingness and ability of external agencies to raise the necessary
resources.
54.       At the outset, the burden will rest largely on resources available
from the G-7, together with trade and project financing flowing from export
credit agencies and the international financial institutions. The required
amount of official assistance is large and can not be sustained over a long
period of time. However, if pzoraptly available, these funds can provide
important bridge financing until creditworthiness is restored, voluntary
commercial lending is resumed and foreign direct investment, particularly for
energy development, materializes on the scale envisaged.
ITI    MURxteAL Financing and Debt Kanaeement
55.       The balance of payments situation for 1992 is still fluid. Aside
from the lack of reliable data, there is considerable uncertainty about the
impact of the reform program, particularly the unification of the exchange
rate and the extent of fiscal and monetary restraint, on capital movements and
import demand. Other important factors are Russia s trade policies vis-a-vis
the other republics as well as the fragility of the political situation. Even



- 15 -
greater uncertainty surrounds the outlook for 1993; for this reason, ranges
are used to indicate the broad orders of magnitude Involved.
56.          The trade balance for 1992 is projected to show a deficit of $2-3
billion (see Table 2). Net services, excluding interest payments, are also
projected to be in deficit by around $2 billion this year as well as in 1993.
A major item is the military presence in the former CMEA countries which is
assumed to decline over the medium term. As such activities are drawn down,
the services deficit is projected to fall significantly. Most of the
remaining service items are relatively minor; however, payments for transport
of energy through Eastern European countries to final destinations will become
increasingly significant in the future.
Table 2: 7he Balance of PaymeMs, 1991-93
(USS Billion, excluding Interrepublican Trade)
91                  1992                1993
Actual   Est. 1st   Proj. 2nd  Total    Range
Expots of Goods                              50.9     15.0       19.5      34.5      36 to 49
Oil and gas                                 19.4      7.1      10.1       17.2      20 to 28
Imports of Goods                            45.1    -16.2       -20.9     -37.1      41 to 55
Consumer Goods                             -15.2     ..         ..       -16.1     15 to 21
Food                                      48.7      ..        ..        -7.6       7to 9
IntennediateGoods                          -15.1     ..         ..       -11.0      12to 17
Capital Goods                              -14.8     ..         ..       -10.0     13 to 18
Trade Balance                                 5.8     -1.2       -1.4      -2.6      -4 to -8
Srvices Excl. Interest Obl                   -1.9     -1.0      -1.2       -2.2      -2 to -2
Non-lIterest Current Account                  3.9    -2.2       -2.6       -4.8     -6 to -10
nterest Obligations                          -2.7    -1.8       -1.9       -3.7      -4  -4
Gold Sales                                    2.2      0.7       0.2        0.9       1   1
Current Account Balance                       3.4    -3.3       -4.3       -7.6      -9 to -13
Official Grants                               1.6      1.4        1.4       2.8       2to 3
Foreign Direct Investment                    -0.1      0.1       0.1        0.2       1 to 1
Disburements, MLT                             7.8      6.6       3.9       10.5       9 to 11
Repayment from Abroad                         1.0      0.1       0.2        0.3       0   0
Amordzadons Due                              -5.0    -2.7       -2.6       -5.3      -7  -7
Short Term                                   -0.7    -3.4         1.3      -2.1
Errors & Omissions 1/                       -4.7    -3.1         0.0       -3.1
CapitalAccountBalance                       -11.9    -1.0        4.3        3.3      4to 8
Changes in Net Raerves 21                     0.6    -0.3       -0.3       -0.6      -2 to -3
UseofIMF Credit                             0.0       0.0       1.0        1.0
Central Bank                                 ..     -0.1       -1.1      -1.2
Other                                        0.6    -0.2       -0.2      -0.4
Clearanec of Arars                           -0.1      2.4      -5.3       -2.9
Possible Deferal 3/                           0.2      2.2       5.7        7.9       7   7
.. Denotes not available.
11 Including interrepublican residual for 1991.
V. Negative indicates an increase.
31 For 1993: Indicative based on pro-cut off date debt.



- 16 -
A.         Financina Reauirements 1992-93
57.        Russia faces increased pressures on its external resource position
(see Table 3). An important factor has been the deterioration in the trade
balance. The current account, excluding interest charges but including gold
sales, is projected to move from a surplus of $6.1 billion in 1991 to a
deficit of about $4 billion in 1992. Debt service payments amount to about $9
billion in 1992, which is slightly higher than in 1991. Arrears stood at
around $3 billion as of end 1991. (Both debt servicing numbers assume Russia's
share as 61 percent of FSU obligations.) Including a number of capital
account items, such as an increase in Russian banks' deposits abroad, and an
assumed buildup of gross reserves of $1.6 billion (to reach approximately one
month of import coverage), the aggregate financing requirements for 1992 are
estimated to be about $22-23 billion compared with a little over $10 billion
in 1991. In addition, a currency stabilization fund of $6 billion is planned
to support the pegging of the exchange rate when appropriate macro-economic
conditions permit it. In 1993, the financing requirements could be of roughly
the same order of magnitude; reflecting, on the one hand, a much needed
increase in imports in 1993 compared with 1992, and, on the other hand, an
assumed reduction in short-term capital outflows as stabilization policies
begin to take hold.
Tabk 3: Flnawing Plan, 1991-93
(US$ Billions)
1991        1992       1993
Actual      Projected    Rango
Fmancine Reauirements                           10-5 22.6              124
Non-Interest Current Account Deficit L    -6.1        3.9         6-10
Debt Service                               7.7        9.0          11
Amortizations                        5.0        5.3           7
Interest Payments                    2.7        3.7           4
Short term outflows 2/                     9.4        5.2           0
Cleaance of Arrears                       0.1         2.9
Reserve Build-up (Gross)                  -0.6        1.6         2-3
Finamcine Sources                              10.5         2           19-2
Foreign Direct Investment (Net)           -0.1         0.2       0.5-1
Official Gants                             1.6         2.7        2-3
Disbursaents MLT Loans (Gross)             7,8        10.5        9-12
Bilateral (inc. ECAs)                ..          8.0
Multilateral                         ..          2.5
World Bank                         ..          0.8
Other                              ..          1.7
IMF2L                                     ..           1.0        }
Posible deferral and other capital flows   1.2         8.2        )7-10
Denotes not available.
I/ Including gold sales.
2 Capital outflows identified in first half of 1992.
/ There could be additional use of Fund resources in 1992 if an upper credit tranche arrangenent is agreed before the end
of the year.



- 17 -
S.        Sources of Financing 1992-93
58.       Covering the above-mentioned financing requirements for 1992 and
1993 (excluding the stabilization fund) will require extraordinary efforts.
For the next year or two at least, the bulk of the support will have to come
from official sources in the form of loans with guarantees from export credit
agencies, grants and loans from governments, and loans from international
financial institutions. Russia's primary responsibility in this regard is the
implementation of an appropriate macroeconomic and structural adjustment
program with the support of the IMF and World Bank. Such a program would also
facilitate agreement with official and commercial creditors on a debt
rescheduling package which is also likely to be an important financing item.
59.       Only very modest amounts will be available from private sources over
the next year or two, mainly in the form of short-term trade related financing
and foreign direct investment. Medium and long-term loans from commercial
banks are likely to occur only with official cover. Foreian direct investment
is unlikely to exceed $100-200 million in 1992. Over the medium-term, foreign
direct investment can (and must) be expected to contribute significantly more
to the enormous capital requirements needed to restructure the economy, not
only for the energy and mining sectors, but also to meet emerging needs in
agriculture, the restructuring of manufacturing, and the services and
transport industries. If the Government is able to establish quickly an
appropriate set of policies for foreign investment, especially for the oil
sector, there is the possibility of a significant increase in private
investment as early as 1993. Key actions include establishing a more
attractive legal, tax and regulatory framework, as well as clarifying
ownership arrangements.
60.       Export credit acencies (ECAs) in the OECD countries are expected to
be a major source of financing over the next several years. New financing in
the form of loans or insurance/guarantees is only available to the signatories
of the Memorandum of Understanding of October 1991 and is dependent on the
adoption of an IMP stabilization program and the existence of credible state
guarantees for these new loans. As much as $ 6-8 billion is potentially
available from ECAs for use this year and next. Most of these funds would
finance machinery, equipment, spare parts and other non-food imports,
especially for the energy, agriculture and transport sectors. One concern with
this source of finance is the economic merits of the projects to be financed.
In the current distorted and uncertain environment, ECAs will need to pay
particular attention to the viability of project proposals. There may be
significant opportunities for cofinancing arrangements with multilateral
institutions that would also provide additional assurances about the economic
merit of investments.
61.       Grants and loans from official sources are projected to be in the
range of $5-8 billion for 1992. Most of this is attached to humanitarian and
food aid from bilateral sources, of which $2-3 billion are grants, primarily
for medical supplies and food and $3-5 billion are medium- and lqag-term loans
for food imports. Major sources for food assistance include the US and
Canadian Wheat Board, as well as the EC. Technical assistance has also been



- 18 -
an important aspect of the support being provided by bilaterals and
multilaterals in the early stages of their assistance programs, both to
facilitate the reforms being initiated and to help prepare for future lending.
62.       The international financial institutions are mobilizing to help
cover Russia's external needs in 1992. The proposed First Credit Tranche
Arrangement with the IMF would underpin bilateral and multilateral efforts to
meet Russia's short-term funding requirements. The Fund Program would provide
creditors with assurances that the funds are being utilized in a way that is
consistent with stabilization, reform and renewed growth. The first tranche
would provide $1 billion for reserve build-up, and, subject to reaching an
understanding on a higher-level Stand-by Arrangement, additional financing
could be available later this year, or in 1993. As regards the World Bank,
the proposed Rehabilitation Loan would provide a vehicle for supporting and
monitoring the program of systemic reforms. This operation, as well as
planned loans in support of energy and agriculture, are designed to address
the impediments to a stronger supply response in the adjustment process, thus
helping to establish the basis for sustained growth and creditworthinesa.
Disbursements from the Bank from these operations and others could total as
much as $0.8 billion in 1992, and perhaps $ 1.2 billion in 1993. Other
international agencies such as EBRD are also expected to provide support. In
aggregate, ap to $2 billion is potentially available this year from these
international financial institutions if the Government is able to reach
agreement fairly soon on acceptable policy programs and project design issues.
63.       New funding from the above sources are likely to meet up to two-
thirds of the financing needs for 1992. Deferral and rescheduling of debt
service is likely to be the other major source of financing. Rescheduling
arrangements for principal falling due on debt contracted prior to the cut-off
date would be required, as well as, possibly, a partial capitalization of
interest due. AL Creditors could also be asked to agree on less than full
cash payments on arrears. Renegotiation of debt service payments could reduce
payment obligations by around $8 billion for 1992. In March and June 1992,
the Paris and London Clubs agreed to defer principal re-payments, presently
due at the end of September 1992, based on the expectation of a First Credit
Tranche Agreement with the IMF. The exact need for debt service deferral ill
1993 remains unclear, but rescheduling of principal on pre-cut-off debt
appears to be required.
C.        Debt and_Debt Management
64.        The Soviet Union traditionally relied only marginally on external
trade for its economic development, and for most of the 1980s, the current
account was in surplus. In late 1989, the first reports emerged on arrears to
foreign creditors on unguaranteed borrowings by public enterprises (see Table
4). The trade account deteriorated sharply in the first half of 1990 and
4/ The Paris and London Clubs have established January 1, 1991 as the cut-off
date. Debt contracted after that date is not subject to deferral or
rescheduling by either of the two creditor groups.



- 19 -
arrears on unguaranteed debt soared. In the second half of 1990, import
growth was tightly controlled and the VEB paid off an estimated $5 billion in
arrears on debt contracted without Government guarantees, reducing the balance
to $1 billion.
Table 4: Former USSR, External Debt, 1985 - 1992
End of Period (VSS Billion)
1985  198  1990  1991  1992 May
Total Debt Outstanding  28.9  54.5  61.1  653   70.7
Medium and Long Term    21.0  36.5  46.0  52.9  57.4
Official Creditors  ..  ..
Commercial B       ..  ..  ..   24.7
Bonds              ..  ..    ..     1.7   1.7
Suppliers' Credits  ..  ..    ..    4.6   6.3
Short-Term           8.0  17.5  14.0  7.5   4.9
Arrears on long-enn &
short-term debt     0.0  0.5  1.0   4.9   8.4
Source: Vneshekonombank
Denotes not available
Note: A memorandum of understanding (October 1991) commits all former republics, including Russia, to be jointly and
severally liable for the debt of the former USSR. A debt allocation treaty (Decembor 1991) allocates 61 percent of the debt
of the former USSR to Russia.
.65.      Political developments in the FSU led to increasing uncertainties
during 1991 regarding the management of external debt. To help clarify the
situation, between October 1991 and March 1992, three debt agreements were
reached among different subsets of the former Soviet republics committing
signatories to be jointly and severally liable for the external debt. Russia
signed all three agreements and because of the joint and several agreement,
committed itself, in principle, to be liable for 100 percent of the debt.
66.       The Debt Apportionment Treaty of December 1991 required that Russia
repay 61 percent of the debt of the former Soviet Union at January 1, 1991.
For disbursements made after this in respect of any loans extended to the FSU,
Russia's repayment obligations would be based on actual amounts disbursed to
Russia. In the absence of firm data on the share of disbursements in 1991 and
1992 to individual republics, Russia's share is assumed to be 61 percent of
all outstanding liabilities. These have risen from $61.1 billion at end 1990
to $70.7 billion at May 1992, primarily as a result of the continued
disbursements on loans made to the former Soviet Union before its dissolution.



- 20 -
67.       For 1992, debt service obligations for the FSU, before deferrals,
are projected at $14.3 billion, excluding $4.9 billion in arrears. Russia's
share of these payments, according to the Treaty, would be approximately $9
billion in debt service and $3 billion for clearance of end-1991 arrearo,
which is equivalent to 34 percent of projected merchandise exports and gold
sales. However, during the first five months of 1992, the arrears situation
continued to deteriorate. The VES, which is responsible for servicing the
debt of the FSU, has made payments of $838 million in 1992t contributions to
VEB have only been made by Russia. AS a result, arrears increased to $8.4
billion, including $4.1 in overdue import payments and $1.2 billion on loans
not covered by the deferral agreement. As indicated earlier (para. 63) r the
Paris and London Clubs agreed in June to defer principal re-payments due at
the end of September 1992.
D.        Creditworthiness
68.       As the foregoing analysis notes, financing the external requirements
projected for 1992 and 1993 at least, will require substantial levels of
official support since access to private capital markets and foreign direct
investment is expected to be quite limited. An important objective of the
reform program will be to create the conditions necessary for Russia to regain
full access to international capital markets and to facilitate inflows of
private investment on an increasing scale over the medium term. Restoring
full creditworthiness will, however, take some years. Macroeconomic stability
is essential to bring down the rate of inflation, restore positive real
interest rates and establish currency convertibility. Simultaneously, reforms
are needed to increase export earnings for which policies to increase energy
exports are central, as well as to establish the basis for resumed economic
growth. Assuming successful implementation of macroeconomic and structural
adjustment programs, and adequate support from Russia's creditors and the
international financial institutions, there is a reasonable chance to restore
some degree of creditworthiness for commercial borrowing in the medium term.
Subject to the risks discussed in paras. 48-54 and para. 183, Russia is
considered creditworthy for Bank lending in the amounts expected over the next
several years ($1.5-2 billion annually). Russia's creditworthiness for Bank
borrowing will be kept under regular review.
69.       An important adjunct to the policy environment is the need for
effective debt management. Creditors will be looking for assurances that an
adequate debt management capacity is in place. This would include appropriate
debt and capital flows reporting and monitoring mechanisms, as well as a
coherent debt management strategy. Measures to address capital flight and the
surrender of export revenues are also important in this regard. Numerous
reports have recently been made to the effect that foreign creditors and
potential lenders are seeking collateral arrangements. For Russia to provide
collateral and/or pledge future income streams in convertible currencies would
delay the return of policy flexibility with regard to future foreign exchange
availability, and reduce the quality of other creditors' uncollateralized
exposures.



- 21 -
IV. *THE GOVERNMENT' S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A.        The Macroeconomic and Stabilization Program for 1992
70.       The introduction of price liberalization on January 2 marked the
first stage of an ambitious program of economic restructuring by the Russian
Government. The objectives of the program for 1992 were outlined by President
Yeltsin in his October 28, 1991 statement of fundamental economic objectives,
including:
(1) liberalize virtually all prices, with the exception of a few
prizes for which a more gradual transition to world levels is
deemed desirable for social or economic reasons;
(2) introduce a unified exchange system with a pegged exchange rate
as soon as practical, and liberalize payments for current
account transactions;
(3) achieve macroeconomic stability, including a significant
reduction in the monthly rate of inflation, while limiting the
transitional decline in output as much as possible;
(4) accelerate the transition to a market-based economy through
systemic reforms, including enterprise reform (including
privatization), pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies,
encouragement of direct foreign investment, and financial
sector reforms; and
(5) social protection policies to cushion the impact of economic
transition on the most vulnerable.
71.       The Government's macroeconomic management and stabilization
objectives were broadly outlined in a Memorandum of Economic Policies
submitted to the IMF in March 1992. The objectives include freeing of most
prices, gradual increases in energy prices to world levels, the elimination of
the budget deficit, targeting of monetary policy to achieve a low rate of
inflation, unification of the exchange rate and current account
convertibility. In July the authorities, in separate memoranda to both the
IMF and the Bank, reconfirmed their commitment to these objectives. The
Government's stabilization program, which is supported by an IMF First Credit
Tranche Arrangement, establishes objectives for the remainder of 1992,
including ceilings on credit expansion, a move towards positive real interest
rates, and the creation of an Agency for the Management of Enterprises' Debts.
A second phase of cooperation with the IMF could involve agreement on a
higher-level Stand-by Arrangement at a later date.
72.       The Government has announced that oil prices will be allowed to rise
gradually, reaching world levels at the end of a two-year period. Other
prices remaining subject to regulation (particularly housing rents, public
utility rates, freight rates and transportation fares) will be either
deregulated or adjusted on a quarterly basis starting in the fourth quarter of
1992.



- 22 -
73.       The overall stance of financial policies is intended to reduce the
monthly rate of inflation to below 10 percent by December 1992. The
consolidated gener&L government budget deficit (measured on a commitments
basis and including the federal government, local governments, extrabudgetary
funds and import subsidies) is estimated at 19 percent of GDP in the first
half of 1992. The Government believes that this deficit can be reduced to
below 10 percent of GDP in the second half of 1992, with financing from the
domestic banking system amounting to approximately 5 percent of GDP.
74.       The reduction in the deficit will be achieved by a combination of
tax increases, improvements in tax administration, and the continuation of
large reductions in expenditures for defense, subsidies, investment and
administration. A customs tariff was introduced on July 1; on most items the
initial rate was 5 percent, but the average tariff will be increased to 15
percent by August 1, 1992. Other tax measures are expected to yield 440
billion rubles in increased revenues during the second half of the year. Tax
exemptions will be reduced and tax administration will be tightened. A number
of improvements in the administration of the VAT are planned, but these will
generally not take effect until the start of 1993. Administrative
expenditures have been cut as a result of reducing employment in the central
apparatus by 30 percent in the first half of 1992.
75.       The fiscal effort, and the accompanying control of monetary and
credit expansion, are expected to restore confidence in the ruble, leading to
an increase in the demand for real money balances and a real appreciation of
the exchange rate. The two key monetary policy instruments at the disposal of
the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) are the quantity of credit extended to the
banking system and the interest rate charged on this credit. In line with the
target for inflation, indicative ceilings have been established on the net
domestic assets of the CBR. Interest rate policy will involve moving the CBR
finance rate to a positive real level by the end of 1992. In addition,
ceilings on net bank credit to the government have been established, and the
CBR will further develop its refinancing mechanism and the market for
government bills.
76.       The explosive growth of interenterprise arrears since the end of
1991 is viewed with concern. An Agency for the Management of Enterprises
Debts is to be set up with the aim of taking over the net claims of
enterprises; the net claims on debtor enterprises would be sold and the
proceeds used to compensate creditor enterprises. The prospective increase in
CBR interest rates is expected to create incentives for avoiding further
accumulation of arrears. An additional challenge will be to link the
resolution of the stock of accumulated arrears with progress in stopping the
build-up of new arrears. A Presidential Decree on bankruptcy which was issued
in June should result in enterprises showing greater concern for the soundness
of their financial position.
77.       Regarding the future of the truble area," it is the Government's
intention to reach agreement on the orderly withdrawal of those states which
wish to leave and on the arrangements for the operation of monetary policy in
the ruble area with its remaining members. In the meantime, attempts will be



- 23 -
made to reach agreements with all existing members of the ruble area on
restricting credit expansion, distributing ruble currency, harmonizing central
bank interest rates and reserve requirements, interest rates on commercial
bank loans and deposits, and foreign exchange arrangements.
78.       On July 1, 1992, Russia introduced a unified exchange system with a
freely floating market-determined exchange rate. Under this system all
foreign exchange export proceeds are to be repatriated immediately and are
subject to a surrender requirement of 50 percent to authorized banks. During
the period the exchange rate is floating, the authorities intend to limit
intervention to smoothing operations. Once macroeconomic conditions and the
exchange rate have stabilized, reserves have reached an adequate level, and
arrangements in the ruble area have been settled, the authorities will move
towards a pegged exchange rate system. Export quotas related to trade
operations with all countries are to be abolished by August 1, 1992;
exceptions will be made only for energy and for goods subject to voluntary
export restrictions. The Government has already begun a program of auctioning
a part of export quotas; by September 30, 1992, all export quotas additional
to those that have already been distributed will be auctioned. Export
licensing will be carried out solely with the aim of complying with foreign
exchange regulations, avoiding the dumping of exportables, and ensuring the
timely payment of export and other taxes.
S.        Systemic Reforms
79.       The establishment of a competitive market-based economy in Russia
r quires one of the most massive and far-reaching efforts at institutional
restructuring ever attempted. It requires changes not only in the legal
structure of ownership and the pattern of transactions between enterprises,
but also in the basic expectations and incentives that direct the behavior of
managers, workers, consumers, investors and public officials. While the
Government has initiated this process with a radical program of price
liberalization and efforts to achieve macroeconomic stabilization, the process
of economic restructuring at the level of the individual enterprise has barely
begun. The initial response of many enterprises has been to raise prices,
lower output, accumulate inventories and cease payments on contractual
obligations, actions which carry the risk of undermining the stabilization
program on which the credibility of the other economic reforms ultimately
depends. Prompt actions to initiate the process of enterprise restructuring
and establish hard budget constraints to enforce financial discipline are
therefore of crucial importance to the success of the entire reform program.
A precondition for effective enterprise reform will be the establishment of a
social safety net, without which there will be reluctance to shed labor.
80.       The program of systemic reforms to be supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan establishes realistic and achievable objectives to be
accomplished over the coming year (i.e., up to June 30, 1993). Because of the
close linkages between various parts of the reform program, targets have been
established in each of the following areas:



- 24 -
(i) Enterprise reform, including both privatization and better
management of enterprises expected to remain in the public
sector for at least a transitional period;
(ii) Pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, including both
dismantlement of existing monopolistic structures and
encouragement of new private enterprises;
(iii) Direct foreign investment policies, to stimulate domestic
production through access to foreign capital and know-how;
(iv) Financial sector reforms, to meet the needs of a market
economy; and
(v) Social protection policies, to provide a minimum safety net for
individuals and families affected by economic restructuring and
to improve labor mobility.
Targets are laid out in each of these areas in the attached Memorandum on
Economic Reform Policies. (A summary of the systemic reform program is
provided in the attached Box.) Sustained progress in achieving the targets
will influence both the amount and content of future Bank lending.
81.       Enterprise Reform.  The key to enterprise reform is the rapid
privatization of the vast majority of state-owned enterprises, along with
improved management structures, financial accountability and incentives for
those enterprises that, by reason of being natural monopolies or other
extenuating circumstances, are likely to remain in the public sector for at
least a transitional period. The Government has developed a multi-layer
strategy to achieve this objective, which will be implemented under the
direction of the State Committee for the Management of State Property (GKI),
acting in coordination with a number of regional and local state property
committees, property funds, and privatization committees. Pilot efforts in
small-scale privatization affecting some 6700 enterprises by the end of April
1992 have been carried out in a number of localities, including Moscow, Saint
Petersburg and Nizhny Novgorod (with the assistance of IFC and EBRD). The
lessons of this experience have been incorporated into the Government's
planned programs for the coming year. The Privatization Program for 1992 was
approved by the Supreme Soviet in June; this law amends the Privatization Law
of 1991 by streamlining the institutional structure of the privatization
program and laying the basis for the steps to be taken over the next several
months.
82.       For small scale enterprises, the intention is to privatize based on
competitive auctions, tenders, or buyouts by employees. §L A number of
enterprises have been designated as subject to mandatory privatization during
5/ Small scale enterprises are defined as those engaged in wholesale and
retail trade, construction, agriculture, food and trucking with 200 employees
or less or a book value of fixed capital of less than one million rubles.



- 25 -
1992; however, since small-scale privatization programs are under the
responsibility of local authorities, it is recognized that simplicity and
flexibility will be required to address local conditions. GKI is preparing
standardized procedures and documentation for small-scale privatization which
is expected to be announced by the end of August 1992. The scheme will stress
the urgency of rapid progress, and incentives (as well as technical
assistance) will be provided to encourage regions to begin implementing
privatization programs by the end of September 1992. The Government hopes to
have the small-scale privatization program largely completed by the end of
1993.
83.       For medium-and large-scale enterprises, the first step in the
privatization process is to clarify ownership rights through a process of
corporatization. §L All large-scale enterprises (except for joint ventures
and those privatized by other means) will be transformed into joint stock
companies by November 1, 1992. Medium-scale enterprises will be corporatized
if they have not been liquidated or sold intact. Significant employee
participation will be encouraged through such means as the distribution of
nor.-voting shares and employee buy-outs. Supervisory bodies will be
established to appoint the initial boards of directors, which will oversee the
performance of enterprise managers and see that appropriate accounting and
auditing procedures are introduced. The Government intends to formulate a
program by December 1992 (including drafting any necessary legislation) to
improve asset management and corporate governance in enterprises which are
expected to remain in the public sector for an extended period, with
implementation of the program to begin in selected enterprises as of January
1993.
84.       Following the corporatization of medium-and large-scale enterprises,
GKI intends to introduce a program for mass privatization of all but the
largest enterprises. International advisers have been employed to help design
the mass privatization program, which will be completed during the third
quarter of 1992. The Bank and EBRD have contributed to this process and are
preparing a Privatization Assistance Loan to help implement the program. One
of the principal features of the mass privatization program will be the issue
of vouchers to build political support for the program and improve equity
through the widespread distribution of shares to the general population.
Vouchers will be distributed in the fourth quarter of 1992, with enterprise
auctions to start soon thereafter. The program is being designed to encourage
the maximum amount of regional and local participation in the process and to
discourage the issuance of regional vouchers. Vouchers will be valid for a
limited time period only. Private investment funds will be allowed to
organize in order to permit individuals to use their vouchers to invest in a
diversified portfolio of privatized companies. In addition, this will create
portfolio managers with substantial blocks of shares who can take effective
responsibility for overseeing the performance of enterprise managers.
6/ Large-scale enterprises are those with fixed assets above 50 million
rubles or with more than 1,000 employees.



- 26 -
Box - Summare of the Systemlc Reform Pro?mm
1. ENTERPRISE REFORM
Privatization of small scale entenrises: This part of the privatization program will be imnlemented by municipal and regionl
govemnments acting under general guidelines from GIa. k is hoped that this program will be substantially compIeted by the eNd of
1993.
1.   GIU will prepare a simplified and flexible scheme for saall scale privatizationwhich isto be announcedby end of August 1992
2.   GKl will provide technical assistance on small scale privatization to regiond andmunicipal govemments; this assistance wil
be available begixning in September 1992.
Privatization of medium and lare scale enteninses: This part of the privatization program wil be implemented by the CKM.
Medium and large enterprises have beea asked to draft their own privatizaaon programs and submit them to GEI for review by
September 1, 1992. In June 1992a Presidential Decree was issued requiring the corporatization of the larger eterprises (those with
more than 1,000 workers or fixed assets of over 50 million tubles) by November 1, 1992. Supervisory bodies will be established
to appoint initial boards of directors, who will be responsible to ovemree performance of managers and also to see that appropriate
accounting and auditing procedures are introduced.
1.   A detailed plan for mass privatization of medium and large scale state enterpises is now being prepared and is to be completed
during the third quarter of 1992.
2.   Implementation will begin with the distibution of vouchers in the fourth quarter, auctions of specific enterrises will stat soon
thereater.
3.   Private investment funds will be allowed to organize; this will permit (I) individual investors to have diversifed holdings and
(u) investment funds to contrl blocks of shares large enough to oversee perfonnance of eneerpise managers.
4.   As a start in privatizing large enterpises, a demonstrationgroup of S - 10 large enterprises will be identified and investment
advisers appointed by Deeember 1992. Participation by foreign investors will be encouraged. It is hoped that sone of these
demonstration enterpdrses wil be privatized by mid-1993.
Corporate governance: There is a need to strengthen corporate governance of enterprises that are likely to remain, temporarily or
pernanenty, in the hands of the state.
1.   A program for corporate goverance will be formulated by December 1992, including the drafting the necessary legislation.
2. Implementation of the program will begin in selected enterprises in January 1993.
Leral framework for a market economy: Laws are being revised to reflect tie needs of a market economy. A foreign invesment
law was adopted last year, a number of amendmns to strngthen the law have recently been submitted to the Supreme Soviet. A
Presidential Deree on bankrptcy was issued in June 1992; this will remain in effect until parliament has adopted a bankrupty law.
1.   The civil code, incorporating modern priciples of contract law and defining property rights, is being drafled and should be
intrdueed in the Supreme Soviet before the end of 1992.
2.   LAws on enterpises, joint stock societies and partnersh1ips are being revised and wWi be submitted to the Supreme Soviet by
the end of 1992.
11. PRO-COMPETITION AND ANTI-MONOPOLY POUCIES
Demonooolizationofexistine structures: Many ofthe state enterprisas inherited from the previousplnnedeconomyhold subs l
mronopoly power (includiag regional monopolies in distrbution and other service sector activities). The Government wi aot tely
upon ex ante control of prices and profits on aonopolies (except in the came of nrAtural monopolies). Although new enterprises will
be encouraged, and liberal import policies wiW provide competition for producers of tradables, some rercuring of existing
eaneprises is also desirable.
1.   When large enterprises are corponaized, this will be done at the level of the smallest legal entity.
2.   Profile restdctions, which require fims to continue particular product lines, will be phased out as rapidly as conditionsprmit.
3.   The newly organized investment companies will be required to hold diversified portflios rather than holdings in a number
of companies engaged in the same economic activity.
4.   Dudag the third quarter of 1992 the Govemrnent wiU isue an order ealing for the reorganization of *concerns' ad ohr
entities that might become the basis for carteliation of paticular areas of indusrial production.
5.   By August 1992 a temporary inter-agency working group wiU be established to further develop mechanisms for
demonopolization of existing enteprises. Its recomenedations should be available by December 31, 1992.
Contwud



- 27 -
Box - Sammarv of thIe Sv& m_k Reform Proeram (Condgny4don)
Eacourarement of new enterorises: A decree has been issued to establish a permanent inter-agency working group to mWak
recommendations regarding a more favorable environment for new enteprises.
1.     By September 30, 1992, this working group will prepare recommendations on measures to promote greater competition,
output and emnloyment through the creation of new small entoprises. Recommendations wiU cover required legisation
as well as aceess to finance and specific problems such as registration and access to necessary real estate.
111. FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT
Foreign Direct Invesment: In addition to the legidative improvements, the unified exchange rate adopted on July I assures foreign
investors that foreign capital and earnings on foreign investments will be able to enter and exit at the unified exchange ate.
1.     Government will encourage foreign investors to participate in the privatization of medium and large eanterprises. Rule. and
conditions for participation will be simplified and steps will be taken to see that information on invement opportunities
is available.
2.     The Government wil not discrimint against foreign inveaors. It will seek to reach ageemenats on double taxation with
as many coutries as possible.
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Itaraeencv working aoup workine on financial sector reform issues: Agreement has been reached to establish an interagency
wotking group (involving the Government, the Central Bank, the Supreme Soviet and representatives of the commercial banks) to
overe the preparation of recommendations and legislation to create a modem and efficient commermial banking ystem.
1.     A naw commercial banking law will be submitted to the Supreme Soviet before the end of October 1992.
2.     Before the end of 1992 proposals will be prepared on a plan to liquidate, restructure, or recapitaliz banks.
3.     Before the end of 1992 the problems of high spreads wil be studied and proposals for reform will be made. This wil be
followed by drafting new legislation on taxation of fiancial intermediaries, which will then be submitted to the Supreme
Soviet.
4.     Over the next 12 months the authorities wil introduce international sandards of accounting, and they will conduct audits
of at least 15 large banks
S .    A comprehensive program for dealing with the issues of bad debt management and bank recapitalizatioc will be completed
by Iune 1993.
6.     Draf legislation of. securities act and collatal security wil be submitted to the Supreme Soviet before the end of 1992.
7.     A comprehensive review of the payments system, including inter-CIS payments, wiU be completed by March 1993; some
of the recommendations should be in place by June 1993.
V. THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Definin. the poverty line and adiustine benefits: UTe Governmeat is taking a number of steps to mninmize the socaW costs of the
transtion to a marke economy, and also to keep the costs of the social safety net manageable. Central to the approach is the
definition of a parsimonious but realistic poverty level that should define the 'basic benefit' for al programs. Regionally
differentiated poverty levels are now being fixed by loal authorities under criteria and using methods established by federation
authorities.
1.     The minimum benefit for the main program  (pensions and unemploymnat compensation) wil be set at or above the basic
benefit.
2.     For citizens whose eigibility for other benefits has been exhausted, or whose entlement is inadequate, the Government
will introduce a meansested system of social assistance as a benefit of kgst reot.
3.     By September 30, 1992, the Govcrnmeat wiU have completed recommendations for the redesign of the system of cash
entitleet, including social assistance. Implementatioa of the main elements of the new system wil begin by the end of
1992, wi ful implementation by the end of 1993.
Meetinf needs resulting from inceased unewmlovment: Uneaploymethas traditionally been very low, but is expected to increase
substantially in the conung montis. The pent system of financing unemployment benefits (by a payrotl tax) is expected to be
inadequate.
I.     The Governmeu wil provide supplementary financing from the budget to cover the costs of unemployment compensation.
2.     By September 30, 1992, the Government wiU complete the design of a proactive system of employment services, including
job search, retaining and possibl participatioa in labor-intensive public works. Impemetation of this program wil begiin
bh December 31. t.



- 28 -
85.       For the largest enterprises, the process of privatization is
recognized to be a complex process that will need to be managed on an
individual enterprise basis. Specific privatization proposals will be
developed initially for a demonstration group of 5-10 such enterprises, with
investment advisers to be appointed by the end of 1992. It is hoped that some
of these large state enterprises will have been privatized by mid-1993. The
Government intends to attract foreign investors to participate in the
privatization of at least some of the demonstration group of enterprises.
86.       The Government recognizes the need to establish a suitable legal
framework to support the process of enterprise reform and privatization.
Revisions of laws on enterprises, joint stock societies and partnerships are
being prepared to reflect the needs of a market economy. A new decree on
bankruptcy and liquidation of defunct enterprises and societies was issued in
June. The civil code is being revised to incorporate modern principles of
contract law and to define the nature and transferability of personal property
rights. It is expected that draft laws on these matters will be presented to
the Supreme Soviet for approval by December 31, 1992.
87.       Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies.  Manufacturing, domestic
trade (procurement, wholesale and retail distribution) and parts of the
agricultural sector are characterized by a high level of seller concentration
and vertical integration, as well as a lack of competitive market forces. At
the regional level, many of the state enterprises are effectively monopolies.
In the industrial sector, the former branch ministries provided a means of
centralizing administration in a cartel-type relationship, even where multiple
enterprises existed. These institutional structures have tended to persist in
the form of concerns and associations. In order to address these problems,
Russia has adopted anti-trust legislation based on experience in other
countries. A liberal foreign trade regime and the promotion of new small- and
medium-size enterprises can do a great deal to introduce competitive forces
into the economy; in this regard, the Government's Working Group on Creating
New Enterprises will prepare recommendations by September 30, 1992 on creating
a more favorable environment for new small enterprises. The Government
intends to eliminate ex ante controls on prices, except where needed as part
of the regulatory system for natural monopolies. Nevertheless, the most
immediate prospects for increasing competition are to take specific measures
during the privatization process to promote market competition by the newly-
privatized enterprises.
88.       As a first step toward promoting greater competition, large
conglomerates will be corporatized at the level of the smallest existing legal
entities within the enterprise. Profile restrictions on enterprises, which
require firms to continue particular product lines and therefore limit the
reallocation of resources, will be continued for only a limited period
following privatization and will be phased out as rapidly as conditions
permit. Investment trusts will be required to hold a diversified portfolio,
rather than potentially limiting competition through holdings in several
companies engaged in the same economic activity. The Government will issue an
order during the third quarter of 1992 requiring the reorganization of
concerns, associations and other forms of organization that might otherwise



- 29 -
serve to cartelize particular areas of industrial production. In particular,
procurement and marketing functions are expected to be performed by
independent enterprises, rather than by a concern representing a group of
companies producing similar goods.
89.       The current institutional structure in Russia does not provide a
close integration of pro-competition policies with the privatization program.
Consequently, a temporary inter-agency working group will be established by
August 1992, including both the State Committee for Anti-Monopoly Policy and
Promotion of New Economic Structures and GKI, to address this problem and
develop mechanisms for demonopolization of medium-and large scale enterprises
during the process of privatization. The recommendations of the working group
are expected to be available by the end of 1992. To assist in this effort,
the working group will draw on the experience of the demonstration group of
large enterprises referred to above. It will also organize "fracturation"
studies for a sample of large enterprises to examine how both vertical and
horizontal integration can be reduced in ways that would contribute to
increasing competition and economic efficiency. During the third quarter of
1992, the working group will prepare and disseminate guidelines for the
implementation of existing anti-monopoly legislation.
90.       Foreicn Direct Investment.  As of May 1992, the total stock of
foreign investment in Russia amounted to $3.4 billion, with a gross output for
the five month period January - May 1992 of roughly 33 billion rubles. This
represents a fraction of the amount of foreign investment that will be
required by Russia in coming years. Foreign direct investment (FDI) is
expected to make a significant contribution to economic restructuring over the
medium term, especially in areas where foreign partners can contribute
improved technology and management know-how to improve efficiency and product
quality. While a foreign investment law was adopted during 1991, several
amendments are planned for the current year that will improve the environment
for foreign investment significantly. Foreign investments will be provided
strictly non-discriminatory treatment by the Government. The tax law will be
reviewed to ensure that it does not discriminate against foreign as compared
to domestic entities. In addition, the Government will seek to complete
bilateral agreements on double taxation with as many countries as possible.
Foreign capital will be able to enter and exit (in the form of repatriation,
interest and dividends) at the same exchange rate as all other transactions.
Finally, foreign investors will be provided extensive opportunities to
participate in the privatization of medium and large state enterprises.
Information on investment opportunities will be provided to potential foreign
investors, and the rules and conditions for foreign investors to participate
in the privatization program will be clarified and simplified.
91.       Financial Sector Reforms.  The financial sector has undergone
enormous changes over the past five years. Up to 1987, the FSU had only one
single integrated bank (Gosbank), whose purpose was largely to allocate
resources to enterprises in accordance with the central plan. Recent reform
measures to decentralize the banking system have led to an explosion of
commercial banks, of which there were over 1500 licensed in the Russian
Federation at the end of 1991. Many of these banks have been established in



- 30 -
close association with enterprises, and there has been little effort or
ability by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) to collect data and supervise
their activities. With the initiation of economic reforms, the underlying
conditions facing the financial sector have changed radically in a short time
period, with holdings of ruble balances as a percentage of GDP declining from
80 percent at the beginning of 1991 and 60 percent at the end of the year to
roughly IS percent at the end of April 1992. In these conditions, the large
majority of commercial banks are probably insolvent, although the Government
does not have the technical capacity to identify them and take remedial
actions. In the meantime, the banks have continued to lend to enterprises in
distress using funds obtained through the inter-bank market. This situation
does not have an easy solution, as it is intrinsically linked to the problem
of enterprise reform and the establishment of a hard budget constraint. It is
therefore important to establish clear priorities for financial sector
reforms, identify realistic yet ambitious targets, and assign monitorable
responsibilities for the implementation of the reform program.
92.       An inter-agency working group consisting of representatives of
relevant Government agencies, the Central Bank, the Supreme Soviet, and the
banking community, is being established to develop an agenda of reforms for
the financial sector, prepare specific recommendations for improvements, and
submit such recommendations to the policy-making authorities. The following
issues are on the initial agenda of the working group: revision of the
financial laws, including the banking act, the securities act, and the law on
collateral security; payments system issues, including technology, flexibility
between cash and check payment, inter-republican and international payments
issues; taxation of financial transactions, including direct and indirect
means of taxation; accounting and auditing of banks; definition of the
appropriate roles for development banks and for special lending programs for
industry, agriculture and housing; structure of the financial system (number
and type of banks, licensing, branching requirements, etc.); the system of bad
debt management and recapitalization of banks; issues related to privatization
of financial institutions, and training of financial professionals.
Assistance will be requested from the World Bank and the IMF to support the
program of the working group.
93.       Work has already started on this agenda, and recommendations will be
considered by the working group as they become available. For example,
considerable progress has already been made on a revised system of accounting
and auditing for commercial banks, which will be implemented for reporting
years ending after January 1, 1993. A new chart of accounts for banks is
expected to be submitted to the Supreme Soviet for approval by the end of
March 1993 at latest. The commercial banking law is under revision and is
'expected to be submitted to the Supreme Soviet by the end of October 1992.
Work on the securities act and laws on collateral security is getting
underway, and draft acts are expected to be submitted to the Supreme Soviet by
the end of 1992.
94.       As part of the restructuring program for commercial banks, it is
important to address portfolio problems and the need for bank
recapitalization. In addition to the introduction of international standards



- 31 -
of accounting, audits will be conducted for at least 15 large banks over the
next year, and a comprehensive program for dealing with the issues of bad debt
and inadequate bank recapitalization will be developed and submitted to the
working group by June 1993.
95.       The current payments system is inadequate to the needs of a market-
based economy and appears to have contributed to the rapid growth of inter-
enterprise arrears during the first half of 1992. Many payments currently
require 14 days or more to clear, even between banks in Moscow. The working
group is preparing a comprehensive review of payments issues to be ready by
the end of March 1993, both with regard to domestic and inter-CIS payments.
Some of the recommendations should be in place by end-June 1993.
96.       Interest rates currently show a very high spread between borrowing
and lending rates. The present structure of taxation for financial
intermediaries, the level of reserve requirements, and operational
inefficiencies within the banking system all contribute to the high spreads.
The working group is analyzing this problem and expects to make proposals by
the end of 1992. Thereafter, new proposals for the taxation of financial
intermediaries will be drafted and submitted to the Supreme Soviet.
97.       Special credit programs are currently provided for agriculture,
basic industries, conversion of military facilities, and other purposes.
Banks have been directed to make credit available for designated sectors at
low interest rates. In some cases, subsidies are being provided through the
budget to cover the difference between the interest rates charged on these
loans and the Central Bank's normal financing rate. In order to reduce direct
controls on credit allocation, the Government intends to identify a very
limited number of priority sectors to receive directed credits at lower than
market rates, limit the amount of credit provided through these programs, and
tie the interest rate charged to the market rate. These programs will be
phased out as soon as deemed feasible.
98.       There is a serious shortage of well-trained financial professionals
able to meet the needs of a market economy. Assistance from the World Bank
and the INM has been requested to upgrade institutions to train bankers,
initiate external tr.aining programs, encourage joint ventures with foreign
banxs, and contract with foreign intermediaries to establish training programs
with individual banking institutions.
99.       Social Safety Net.  Enterprise restructuring, price liberalization,
the removal of subsidies and other dislocations associated with the transition
to a market economy will inevitably affect living standards.   Unlike in other
countries, where an active informal sector provides a means to supplement
incomes, Russians have had little opportunity to accumulate assets except
through public sector employment or allowances from the state. With the
drastic erosion of savings accounts due to inflation and the expectation of
large declines in output and a rapid rise in unemployment, the establishment
of an effective social safety net is urgent to maintain public support for
market-oriented reforms and to prevent the emergence of serious poverty.
Beyond the present transitional period, measures providing for a minimum level
of economic security need to become a permanent feature of the new market-
based system.



- 32 -
100.      The Government is planning special measures to protect the most
vulnerable members of society, including pensioners, single-parent households,
large families and the *..nemployed. The new demands for benefits will strain a
stringent budget and an administrative system that had previously been geared
to delivering services under conditions of full employment. The Government
hopes to keep the budgetary costs of the social safety net manageable by
improving the efficiency of delivery, rationalizing the structure of benefits
and targeting the most needy citizens. In addition, greater emphasis will be
placed on proactive programs to ease the transitional costs of unemployment
through job training and placement services. These and other measures will
facilitate the process of labor force adjustment and establish an incentive
fromework for more efficient use of labor.
101.      The essential first step in the design of the social safety net is
the definition of a realistic but parsimonious level of consumption that
should be guaranteed to all citizens. This "poverty level" is presently being
defined by an expert group at a substantially lower level than prevailed
previously. It will include provisions for local differences in the cost of
living and for regular revisions to maintain its value in real terms. The
Government intends, as a matter of policy, to defend the poverty level against
inflation in the medium term.
102.      The main benefit programs, particularly pensions and unemployment
compensation, will be set at or above the poverty level. Benefits in excess
of that level will be minimized and carefully targeted through clearly defined
criteria. The Government recognizes its responsibility for protecting the
living standards of all citizens, and an agreement will be established with
the local authorities on the relative roles of local and federal levels in the
financing of cash benefits. For citizens whose eligibility for other benefits
have been exhausted or whose entitlement is inadequate, the Government will
introduce a means-tested system of social assistance as a benefit of last
resort. Presently, the main responsibility for funding social assistance
programs rests with local authorities. This is appropriate in normal
circumstances, but under present conditions, when the geographic impact of the
stabilization program may be uneven, it is important that supplemental
assistance should be provided from central sources if local authority revenues
are not sufficient to maintain benefit levels.
103.      By September 30, 1992, the Government intends to complete
recommendations for the redesign of the system of cash entitlement programs
and for measures to expand and improve their administration. Implementation
of the main elements of the new system will begin by the end of 1992, with
full implementation expected by the end of 1993.
104.      Unemployment will undoubtedly grow rapidly as stabilization proceeds
and must realistically be expected to be a feature of the Russian economy for
several years. Although it is difficult to project the growth of
unemployment, experience in other adjusting countries suggests that 5-6
percent of the non-agricultural labor force, i.e., between 3 and 4 million
people, could lose their jobs before the end of 1992. The present system is
both financially and administratively ill-prepared for unemployment on this



- 33 -
scale. Unemployment compensation is financed from an Employment Fund, whose
main revenues derive from a 1 percent payroll tax. The Fund is now in surplus
but its revenues will Lnevitably decline just when the demand for benefits
rises. The Government intends to provide supplemental financing from the
budget to cover any shortfalls until new financing mechanisms are designed.
The Government will also complete work on the design and financing
arrangements for an employment services program by September 30, and
implementation would begin as soon as possible. The program would provide
retraining, job placement services and possibly public works programs as a
last resort in cases of mass lay-offs. By the end of the year, the Government
will have reorganized and begun to re-equip key employment offices in major
industrial cities. Future expansion of such offices will concentrate on
geographic areas likely to be hardest hit by unemployment.
C.        Sectoral Reforms
105.      While the program of systemic reforms described above will initiate
the process of economic restructuring, a great deal of work needs to be done
at the detailed sectoral level in order to carry out this process in an
efficient and responsible fashion. The process of privatization will
gradually relieve the Government of the responsibility for directing the
restructuring process in most sectors, relying instead on market forces to
organize the pattern of production in an efficient manner. In a number of
important sectors, however, the Government will retain responsibility for more
direct interventions, either through the establishment of regulatory
mechanisms or by providing inflows o' public investment for sectors that
cannot be organized efficiently through market principles. One of the most
difficult problems that faces the Government is the management of the
transition process; i.e., what actions should be taken to minimize declines in
production during the short-term without compromising incentives for longer
term adjustments. In many cases, inaction may be worse than the risk of
excessive intervention, as avoidance of unnecessary disruptions in local
production will be a critical factor in maintaining credibility for the
restructuring process.
106.      The Government has identified two sectors -- energy and agriculture
-- where it is important to achieve a quick supply response in order to
support the adjustment process and demonstrate tangible benefits from the
reform program. The Bank is currently preparing operations in support of
reforms in these two key sectors. In addition, immediate actions are required
to avoid a dramatic decline in public health services and to maintain critical
"ervices in the transportation sectors (especially ports and urban transport).
aie Rehabilitation Loan would finance critical imports required by the
agriculture, health, transport and coal sectors to address immediate
shortfalls in equipment and spare parts and other inputs, thereby providing
sufficient time for the authorities to develop restructuring programs for the



- 34 -
sectors.>L This section outlines the medium-term prospects for the reform
program in these four sectors, as well as actions that will be needed in the
area of environment and urban infrastructure and housing. It also provides
the background for the discussion of the Bank's assistance strategy, which
follows in Part V of this report.
107.      Enerav.  The Russian Federation is the world's largest producer of
oil and gas, which are also the primary sources of foreign exchange earnings.
Tax receipts from oil and gas production are also critical to the fiscal
balance. Oil production has fallen from a peak of 570 million tons in 1987 to
455 million tons in 1991, mostly from the West Siberian fields in Tyumen.
This precipitous decline in production is expected to accelerate in 1992.
After expanding for two decades, gas production stabilized for the first time
in 1991. A drop in production in 1992 is likely. Russia is also experiencing
difficulty in meeting gas export commitments, due to significant losses during
gas transmission.
108.      The petroleum sector is suffering from reservoir depletion, under-
investment and low domestic energy prices, which are still only about 20
percent of world levels. In the near-term, the rate of decline in production
can be reduced by rehabilitating existing oil fields and gas transmission
systems with imported equipment and services. Over the medium-term, massive
amounts of funding and technology transfers will be needed to stop the decline
and expand production of oil and exportable surpluses of gas. A key
Government objective must be to attract private investment flows for this
purpose from the international petroleum industry and commercial banks.
Several decrees were announced in June to give the industry preferential
access to almost $11 billion in foreign credits, which would be raised by
1998. Western experts, however, estimate that investment in the range of $30-
40 billion will be needed to restore oil production to around 450 million
tonnes per year by the end of the decade. For foreign investment of this
magnitude to occur, several actions must be initiated now, including a rapid
increase in energy prices towards world market levels, revision of the tax
treatment of oil and gas producers to reflect international practices, the
establishment of a legal framework for petroleum operations, and the
preparation of a program to promote petroleum exploration and development. In
addition, a policy must be articulated to clarify the administration of the
sector and restructure energy enterprises to operate on commercial principles.
109.      The Government has announced its intention to move domestic energy
prices toward levels in stages over the next two years. In addition, drafting
of petroleum legislation is underway that will cover all key issues relative
to petroleum exploration, production and transport. However, a meaningful
program for the promotion of direct foreign investment in production projects
has yet to be articulated, and appropriate strategies and targets for
enterprise reform, including a revision in the tax regime, must still be
developed and applied to the petroleum sector.
7/ The import requirements for the petroleum sector would be addressed
through a separate lending operation.



- 35 -
110.      Russia's proven reserves of cgoa} represent 45 percent of the world's
total reserves, and coal is used heavily for power generation, iron and steel
production, and other municipal and household uses (such as district heating).
Over the past two decades, coal production has shifted increasingly from
substantially depleted reserves in the European part of the country in favor
of developing the Siberian reserves, which represent 75 percent of the total
coal reserves of the FSU. This has been accompanied by the development of
coal-fired mine-mouth power plants in the eastern regions. As with other
energy products, coal production has been hurt severely by inadequate
investment in maintenance and rehabilitation activities in recent years, which
has contributed to growing labor unrest in the sector. While coal prices were
increased in May 1992 to roughly one-third of comparable world prices,
subsidies to the coal industry due to past generous pay awards represent a
major burden on the budget. The Government is aware of the need for
significant restructuring of the coal industry, but the immediate priority is
to limit short-term declines in production to provide time to develop a more
systematic program of reforms.
11i.      While most attention in the energy sector has been on the prospects
for oil and gas production, the needs of the power sector will also play an
important role in the restructuring process. The immediate priorities in the
power sector are likely to depend in large part on decisions regarding the
future operations of existing nuclear reactors, which account for
approximately 13 percent of total electricity generation in the FSU,
representing an installed capacity of 37,000 MW. Close attention is being
given to the problem of nuclear safety by a number of bilateral agencies and
the International Atomic Energy Commission. Based on the findings and
recommendations of these agencies, provision may be needed for new power
generation facilities to take over the load currently provided by nuclear
reactors that may need to be decommissioned. In addition, a large number of
conventional power generation plants, as well as transmission and distribution
lines, are in poor condition and will need to be rehabilitated or replaced
over the next decade. offsetting these requirements is the possibility of
major energy savings attributable to investments in energy efficiency (as well
as the possible closure of energy-intensive enterprises that are no longer
viable), which would reduce the need for investments in new power facilities.
In order to quantify the impact of these diverse influences, sector studies
should begin immediately to develop the statistical base needed to establish
least-cost investment programs for the power sector as a basis for rational
planning.
112.      Agriculture (includina food processina).  Despite having the most
extensive land area of any country in the world, the FSU relied heavily on
imported food and livestock feed. The chronic problems of the agricultural
sector are rooted in the lack of incentives for managers and workers to
improve productivity, reduce costs, and preserve capital and land. Moreover,
the state monopolies which supply inputs and process outputs have little
incentive to serve the interest of the producers or the consumers. These
deeply embedded inefficiencies have made it difficult for the sector to adopt
to major shifts in relative prices that have occurred over the past year.
Production fell by 10 percent in 1991 and could fall even more over the next



- 36 -
year unless extraordinary measures are taken to improve the availability of
critical inputs for the sector. over the longer term, major structural
reforms will be required to improve efficiency and put the sector on a path of
sustainable growth.
113.      A clear change in past policies came in January 1992 with the
nearly-complete liberalization of most food and agricultural producer prices.
The decision was largely prompted by an accelerating decline in the amount of
food marketed the previous autumn. One objective of the price liberalization
was to improve incentives for producers to bring their stocks to market.
Another was to increase the profitability of farming by improving the terms of
trade for agricultural producers. There was some initial success in meeting
both objectives. However, the agricultural terms of trade have since
deteriorated, due in part to a lack of competition in input supply, food
processing and distribution and from inflexible markets operating without the
benefit of readily available information on prices.
114.      Prior to 1992, state suppliers controlled all trade links between
input manufacturers and dealers, which were outlets for the state-owned
supplier. As of January 1992, such barriers to buying and selling have been
eliminated and dealers can now deal directly with manufacturers. The pace of
privatization of input distribution is expected to increase this year and
next.
115.      The privatization of small-sized retail food outlets has begun in
Nizhny Novgorod and will be expanded to a nation-wide program over the next
two years. Quotas for sales of agricultural commodities to the state have
been reduced (except for grain) in 1992, with purchases made at the prevailing
so-called market prices. The remaining quotas are expected to be reduced in
phases. In place of sales quotas, the state may begin relying on commodity
buffer stocks to stabilize price fluctuations and guarantee essential
commodity supplies. As sales quotas are reduced, the Government plans to
begin privatizing the state procurement network, primarily commodity storage
and initial processing facilities, such as grain cleaning and drying. The
privatization of the truck transport industry is also expected to begin in
1992.
116.      Under land reform laws passed in 1990, the process of land
privatization is accelerating. In the first four months of 1992, the number
of private farms nearly doubled to 95,000 and is expected to reach 300,000 by
the end of the year (which, however, will cover only a small share of total
agricultural land). To speed up land and agrarian reforms, the Government
adopted decrees in March which provide simplified procedures for land
ownership and resale. In addition, state and collective farms are being
reorganized on the basis of joint-stock or cooperative ownership, or will
disband in favor of the creation of private farms. As of April, ten percent
of state and collective farms had been reorganized and can no longer count on
financial bailouts from state budgets.



- 37 -
117.      Russia suffers major post-harvest losses as a result of inadequate
storage and drying and cleaning equipment, coupled with poor stock management
practices. It is estimated that, in the case of grains, losses amount to 25
to 30 percent of harvested production. Grain imports during the 1991/92
agricultural year are estimated at about 37 million tons. It is widely
accepted that these imports would not have been necessary if grain losses
could have been prevented through adequate storage at correct locations and
with proper stock management. Priority should be placed on saving the
existing grain stock rather than increasing future production, which, given
the storage situation, is liable to spoil.
118.      It is estimated that only about 60 percent of present storage
requirements are being met, and that drying equipment covers only 32 percent
of the demand. The most immediate gains can be realized by reducing
distribution losses, which are most serious at the farm level and rural
assembly points. Substantial and comparatively rapid benefits could be
obtained from expanding small scale, on-farm and near-farm storage.
119.      The ability of the agricultural sector to meet Russia's food needs
is greatly affected by the state of the food orocessing industries, which are
considered among the weakest links in the food distribution system. For
decades this subsector has suffered from a chronic lack of investment and
attention from the central authorities. This has contributed to a high degree
of obsolescence in both facilities and technology. Output of processed foods
is believed to have been falling since 1990, partly because of difficulties in
the supply of inputs from the sovkhoz (state farms) and kolkhoz (collective
farms), and partly because of increasing problems with the available plant and
equipment.
120.      In contrast to most other Russian industrial activities, food
processing is characterized by relatively small scale operations. They are
often located at great distances from their sources of raw materials. This
adds to time in transit and to losses that arise from factors such as poor
handling and lack of refrigeration. Most of the food processing equipment is
either old, outdated or poorly maintained. The lack of packaging lines and
packaging materials also accounts for significant losses of product. Thus
efficiency is low and waste is high throughout the process.
121.      The recent Food Policy Revort prepared jointly by the Government and
the World Bank concluded that, although the needs were great, it would be
unwise to promote new investment in food-processing capacity and equipment at
this time. The report noted that other reforms, including price reform and
enterprise reform, would have to be in place before a realistic assessment of
priorities could be made. Considerable shifts in demand and markets are
expected as a result of movements in relative prices. The changing
geographical pattern of agricultural production will affect the desirable
location of food processing activities; in any event, many plants should be
moved from urban areas to locations closer to their agricultural raw
materials. However, although major investments should wait, it will be
important to restore or maintain output by improving supplies of spare parts
and replacing broken down equipment in existing plants.



- 38 -
122.      In the long run, a restructured agriculture sector will look very
different than it does today. Even with major improvements in efficiency, the
livestock subsector will shrink substantially since most Russian livestock
have to be stall-fed, which is extremely costly at world prices. By contrast,
the grain subsector should remain roughly the size it is today, as a reduction
in the cultivation of marginal areas is likely to be offset by increased
yields. Given the reduced grain demand from the livestock sector, Russia
could switch from being a major grain importer to being a net exporter. Any
steps taken in the short term to mitigate declines in production should
facilitate rather than impede the structural changes that need to occur in the
future.
123.      Health.  For the vast majority of the population, health services
that were once just inadequate are now in a state of near-collapse. Even
prior to the recent economic reforms, the health status of Russians was worse
than that found in most Eastern European countries. Since 1970, life
expectancy has remained relatively constant for both men and women, while life
expectancy has grown steadily in OECD countries. High rates of infant
mortality, as well as high rates of chronic diseases and poor adult health,
contribute to lower life expectancy.
124.      The continued deterioration of health services is only partly
attributable to the weakness of the economy during the economic transition.
More important are the cumulative problems resulting from the centrally
managed health system over the last several decades. Chronic underfunding
(about 3 percent of GDP until recently) has interacted with low staff
motivation and commodity shortages to produce low maintenance of equipment and
facil.ities and inadequate coverage of the population with basic services.
Health sector salaries are among the lowest in Russia, 20 percent of hospitals
lack piped hot water and 17 percent lack adequate sanitation facilities.
125.      Recent fiscal difficulties have compounded the problem of
underfunding} for example, the health sector budget (first quarter 1992) is
one third of its real value in 1990. The reduction in interrepublican and
CMEA trade flows has left Russia dependent on imports for approximately 60
percent of its pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies. The lack of
foreign exchange has sharply reduced the availability of drugs. Emergency
assistance has largely taken the form of commodity shipments, and while
useful, important gaps remain. There are also problems of establishing
correspondence with registered Russian drugs. Even before the current crisis,
however, subsidy pricing encouraged wasteful or incorrect consumption and
produced chronic shortages of pharmaceuticals needed for treatment.
126.      The Russian authorities recognize the need for fundamental reforms
in the health sector and have identified pharmaceuticals and health financing
as priority areas for attention. The first step, now underway, is to develop
implementation guidelines to restructure health financing and develop private
sector activities for the production of pharmaceuticals. Considerable effort
is still needed to complete this process and design the reforms. In addition,
more fundamental issues are yet to be addressed which would strengthen support
for basic services, improve the health service mix and improve health service
efficiency.



- 39 -
127.      Transportation and Communications.  The transportation system is
likely to be a major constraint to Russia's economic recovery.  The large
territory and low density of the road network in the FSU, as well as the
fragmentation of the transportation network between former republics, has
created a difficult environment for establishing priorities. Much of the
network and rolling stock are in poor physical condition, and the lack of an
independent contracting industry and the inefficiency of existing institutions
in the sector have made progress difficult and uneven. While the rail system
currently plays a dominant role in the transportation system, its position is
likely to be eroded significantly in a market-based economy, and it would be
best to postpone major investments (other than normal maintenance and
replacement of worn equipment) until the impact of economic reforms becomes
clearer.
128.      Greater attention should focus on the development of the road
sector, which is generally more suited to the needs of enterprises in a
market-based economy. Due to inadequate maintenance, roughly 60 percent of
the road network requires rehabilitation and upgrading. A conservative cost
estimate of the financing requirements for road rehabilitation would be on the
order of $22 billion over the next 5-7 years, as compared to a financial
allocation in the current budget of 60 billion rubles (approximately $0.6
billion), implying a sizable financing gap that is likely to persist for the
foreseeable future.
129.      Disruption in trading patterns within the CMEA and lack of
availability of foreign exchange have created shortages of spare parts and
vehicles, that are starting to affect overall transport capacity. The
declining performance of the bus fleet is particularly sensitive, as much of
the population relies on bus transport for the daily commute to their jobs.
Shortages of specialized equipment such as rear axles and bus engine parts are
leading to declining availability of buses that are otherwise in serviceable
condition. For the trucking industry, the Government has already announced
its intention to privatize existing enterprises. This decision needs to be
complemented with actions to increase competition by reducing the size and
scope of existing trucking companies and removing controls on entry and
pricing.
130.      The situation in the ports sector has also been significantly
affected by the break-up of the FSU. Continued use of the major ports in the
other former republics for Russian trade flows is essential. There is also an
urgent need to improve the condition of Russian ports (especially Saint
Petersburg), which have suffered from a lack of investment over the past ten
years resulting in serious deterioration of cargo handling equipment.
Technical assistance to prepare a national ports development and management
strategy should also have high priority.
131.      Improvements in telecommunications are essential for a modern market
economy. This is an area where western technology and experience can play a
major role in improving the current situation. Establishment of an
appropriate environment for foreign direct investment in the sector (probably
in the form of joint ventures), as well as access to export credits and
commercial loans, are critical for the success of this effort.



- 40 -
132.      Environment.  Environmental problems in Russia are deeply rooted in
the structure of the economy. Soviet planning promoted the rapid growth of
extractive and heavy industries which exploited Russia's rich natural resource
base. Undisciplined by scarcity-based pricing, ministries built huge,
inefficient and heavily-polluting installations. Russia experienced rapid
forest-cutting, steady deterioration of soils, and polluting runoff from
wasteful applications of fertilizers and pesticides on collective farms. At
the same time, there have been important environmental achievements during the
1980s, including a significant drop in air pollution, major investments in
waste water treatment, and one of the world's largest reforestation programs.
Russia currently has an environmental management system considerably more
advanced than the institutions in many comparable countries.
133.      Nevertheless, many localities and regions within Russia face some of
the worst environmental problems in the world, most notably the highly
publicized safety problems of the nuclear power system and hazardous emissions
from industrial metal processing facilities. Many of the antiquated and
highly polluting industries are likely to become nonviable as a result of
economic reforms and as newer and cleaner technologies are introduced.
However, enterprise and price reform cannot solve all of the problems in the
face of a restructuring process spanning decades, and transition programs
during the phase-out period will be required, as well as technical assistance
to develop more effective regulatory interventions.
134.      Housina and MuniciDal Infrastructure.  Municipalities and other
local governments have faced a significakat increase in their responsibilities
over the past year, while their revenue base has not expanded sufficiently to
meet their requirements. The active participation of local governments in the
reform program is essential, as several of the key parts of the program (for
example, small-scale privatization and selected social protection programs)
are under their authority. Issues involving fiscal relations between
different levels of government are therefore important to the success of the
reform program. It is important to ensure that essential public services
provided by local governments are maintained, as these services are likely to
be regarded by the general population as a critical measure of the impact of
reforms. Improvements in district heating plants and urban water supplies
would serve both energy conservation and environmental objectives.
135.      Housing shortages and the deterioration of the housing stock are a
major problem, although a dynamic housing sector could also provide a powerful
impetus for economic recovery in the medium term. Resolving ownership
questions for the existing stock and separating housing from social assistance
and enterprise management are key issues to be resolved as part of the process
of reform. Foreign technical assistance can play an important role in
establishing a framework for the recovery of the sector, which could be
supported in the longer run by operations designed to expand housing finance
and improve the operation of land markets.



- 41 -
V.  BANR A8SISTANCB STRATRGY
A.        overview of the StrateQv
136.      The Bank's medium-term objectives are the following:
(i) Assist in the structural transformation of the Russian economy
into a market-oriented system based largely on private sector
activity in the productive sectors;
(ii) Support sector-specific reforms to build productive capacity,
focusing initially on areas where a quick supply response is
essential (especially energy and agriculture), and encourage
medium-term investments to improve economic efficiency and
protect the environment;
(iii) Strengthen the social safety net to protect the disadvantaged
during the reform process and assist in labor force
restructuring; and
(iv) Develop the human resource skills and institutional capacity
needed to support a market-based economy.
137.      Up to now, Bank assistance to Russia has taken place largely in the
context of the Technical Cooperation Program (TCP) initiated in October 1991
to assist the former republics of the Soviet Union transform their economies
into market-oriented structures and integrate them into the world economy.
The TCP allowed the Bank to respond quickly to the needs of the Russian
authorities in developing action programs in a number of key areas of systemic
and sectoral reforms vital for the medium-term restructuring of the economy.
With the completion of the membership process for Russia on June 16, 1992,
future Bank assistance will be provided through a full range of lending, ESW
and technical assistance interventions building on the sound base of
information and technical expertise established as a result of the TCP
program. The following discussion provides an outline of the Bank's intended
assistance strategy in a number of specific areas, based on the preliminary
findings of the TCP and other work.
Macroeconomic and Systemic Reforms
138.      The primary focus of the Bank's assistance strategy over the next
few years is to help establish an environment conducive to the growth of
market-oriented institutions. The Government's policy intentions in this
regard are described in detail in Part IV of this report and the attached
Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies, and the proposed Rehabilitation Loan
is intended to provide tangible support for this program. Further actions by
the Bank to further this process are described briefly in this section.



- 42 -
139.      Macroeconomic Policies.  Bank advice on macroeconomic policies and
the sequencing of reforms will take place largely in the context of the annual
country economic memorandum, which will assess the progress of the reform
program and suggest mid-course corrections in response to emerging issues.
This document will also provide the basis for coordinating assistance programs
with other international and bilateral agencies, a task which is likely to
become increasingly important as the reform program diversifies beyond its
immediate focus on macroeconomic stabilization. We expect that issues
relating to the management of the public expenditure program, investment
planning and sectoral reform will become increasingly prominent in the policy
dialogue, areas in which the Bank's technical expertise and experience can be
particularly helpful to the Russian authorities in developing the next stages
of the reform program and utilizing foreign assistance in an efficient manner.
140.      Enterprise Reform.  Enterprise reform provides the core of the
Bank's work program over the next several years, including a broad range of
initiatives encompassing privatization and legal reform, financial sector
reforms, encouragement of FDI, and enterprise specific reforms in key sector
such as energy, agriculture and transportation. Initial Bank support for
enterprise ceform, drawing on work already started under the TCP, would be
provided t'irough a proposed Privatization Loan (FY93), which would largely
finance trchnical assistance and computer systems required to support the
privatiz ion process. In addition, the Rehabilitation Loan would support the
expansions of the inter-bank foreign currency exchange to provide market-based
access to imports required by enterprises to improve productivity and assist
potentially viable enterprises in the restructuring process. The IFC is
expected to continue providing assistance to the Government in private sector
development, building on its successful participation in a pilot program for
small-scale privatization in Nizhny Novgorod under the TCP.
141.      Financial Sector Develovment.  Financial sector reform is an
integral part of the strategy for enterprise reform, both to establish hard
budget constraints as a spur to the restructuring process and to provide
support for the expansion of new private sector activities. The Bank has
provided a major program of assistance to the CBR under the TCP, focusing in
particular on the development of the commercial banking sector. As a first
stage in this process, a financial sector strategy paper is being prepared in
cooperation with the Russian Government, with the participation of the CBR and
the Ministry of Finance. This could lead to a financial sector adjustment
operation in the future, as well as support for viable DFI's.
142.      Foreian Direct Investment.  Foreign investment will be essential to
the process of enterprise reform, but it will naturally gravitate during the
initial stages to a few large and relatively isolated enterprises with very
high potential. Under the TCP, FIAS has been providing advice to the
Government on establishing a favorable environment for FDI, including legal,
economic and institutional changes, as well as revisions in the tax code for
foreign ventures. In addition, the proposed Petroleum Sector Loan (FY93)
would include a variety of reforms designed to promote foreign investment in
the oil sector, including petroleum legislation, taxation, tendering and
licensing procedures and enterprise reform.



- 43 -
Sector-Specific Reforms
143.      As discussed in Part IV, the Government and the Bank have placed
high priority on sectoral reforms to achieve a quick supply response in energy
and agriculture in order to demonstrate tangible results from the adjustment
process. In the med:.um-term there is a need for massive investments in
infrastructure (tranfaportation, power, urban, services) to support the growth
of new private sector activities, as well as to address serious environmental
problems. Housing is another important area for Bank interventions in order
to improve labor mobility and reduce large subsidies. This section outlines
the Bank's proposed assistance strategy in each of these key sectors.
144.      Aariculture.  The adjustment process in agriculture must address
three key issues: dramatic shifts in relative prices, reduced profitability,
and an inappropriate institutional structure to cope with a market-based
economy. In the near term, the sector is facing shortages of critical inputs
needed to avoid a drop in production (for example, hybrid seeds, pesticides,
protein feed, veterinary drugs and medicines, and specialized equipment). The
Government has also placed priority on improvements in on-farm and near-farm
storage facilities in order to reduce crop losses, and equipment, spare parts
and packaging materials to maintain existing capacity in the food processing
industry. Over the next five years, the mix of production will need to be
restructured on the basis of comparative advantage, with greater emphasis on
grain production and less to livestock. A proposed Agriculture Sector Loan
(FY93) would initiate the reform program drawing on the recommendations of the
recent Food Policy Review. Assistance may also be required in support of
area-based pilot privatization projects, including demonopolization and
decentralization of agricultural marketing structures. These initiatives
could provide the basis for larger projects to address the longer-term needs
of the sector, including research and extension services, rural roads, and
agro-processing industries.
145.      Energy.  The highest priorities in the energy sector are to halt the
decline in oil production and to increase production of natural gas. A
proposed Petroleum Sector Loan (FY93) would support key reforms in the sector
and finance essential equipment and inputs needed to restore production from
existing wells and maintain production from currently producing fields. In
addition a proposed Oil Transmission Project would address major oil losses
and environmental damage resulting from a high rate of leakage in the
transmission system. A proposed Gas Rehabilitation Loan would focus on the
rehabilitation and improvement of existing transmission and distribution
networks. These operations would also establish the policy framework for new
investments in association with foreign investors, which is expected to focus
on the development of new production fields. The Government has also placed
high priority on spare parts and equipment for the coal sector to maintain
existing production capacity while developing a viable restructuring plan for
the industry. Finally, the Bank intends to initiate power sector surveys in
the coming future, which will establish priorities for future Bank assistance
to the power sector, including the requirements for rehabilitation investments
in the transmission and distribution networks.



- 44 -
146.      Transportation.  The Rehabilitation Loan would finance immediate
imports of equipment and spare parts to improve operations at the port of
Saint Petersburg and to restore existing buses, including trolley buses and
trams, to operable condition in major urban areas. In addition, a Highway
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (FY93/94) is being prepared to address
the most urgent needs for repair and upgrading of the highway network. These
operations will be supported by an expanded program of sector work to define
longer-term investment needs and least-cost development strategies for the
transportation sector as a basis for future Bank lenaing operations.
147.      Environment.  The Bank is initiating work with the Ministry of
Ecology and Natural Resources on environmental matters, and projects are under
preparation with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to address oil and gas
pipeline leaks and gas flaring. A high priority is to assist the Ministry of
Ecology in drafting new environmental laws and regulations as Russia moves
toward a market-based economy. GEF resources are likely to be sought to study
biodiversity and the emission of greenhouse gases, develop programs to phase-
out ozone-depleting substances, and develop cost-effective programs for the
protection of the Caspian and Arctic Seas.
148.      Housing and MuniciDal Infrastructure.  Under the TCP, the Bank has
assisted the Government in developing options for changes in the system of
intergovernmental financing to accommodate the changes implied by the transfer
of expenditure functions and revenues from the (formerly) union level to
republican and local level bodies. In addition, assistance is being provided
through the TCP to the municipal governments of Moscow and Nizhay Novgorod in
establishing a new system of re,.-1e generation and budgeting. As regards
lending operations, the Bank is preparing a Municipal Services/Urban
Infrastructure Project that would focus on improvements of district heating
and urban water supplies, as well as other essential infrastructure. Finally,
the Bank has been assisting the Government under the TCP to identify the
immediate management needs of the housing stock during the initial phase of
the reform period, as well as providing assistance in privatization and
decentralization of the existing housing stock and development of competition
in the delivery system for new housing. This work may eventually lead into an
adjustment and/or investment operation for this sector.
Social Safety Net
149.      An essential part of the Government's reform program is the
establishment of a social safety net to protect individuals and families who
may be adversely affected by the restructuring process, and to provide
programs to ease the transitional costs of unemployment and facilitate labor
market restructuring. As part of the TCP, advice has been provided to the
Government on the design and implementation of income security schemes and
employment services. The proposed Social Protection and Employment Services
project (FY93) would exte.nd these efforts and provide technical assistance and
equipment needed to expand the capacity of existing benefit programs and
ensure the prompt payment of unemployment benefits. It would also support the
design and initiation of proactive employment services, including policies to
address mass layoffs, job search and training programs and systems. In order



- 45 -
to minimize transitional problems of unemployment, a rapid growth of
employment in the service sector, which is relatively under developed, is an
essential part of the adjustment process. The proposed Privatization Loan
would include a component to encourage the formation of new small and medium
scale private enterprises to create alternative sources of employment. It is
envisaged that these emergency operations would be followed by an FY94 project
to support the next phase in the establishment of a modern system of
employment services and social security, which would be supported by sector
work that is due for completion in FY93.
150.      As described above, the situation in the health sector is
deteriorating rapidly. The Rehabilitation Loan would finance immediate import
needs for pharmaceuticals to improve existing services. Of equal importance,
a longer-term effort has been initiated to buttress the Government's capacity
to monitor emerging health problems and address the underlying production and
distribution problems that are the root cause of medical shortages. The Bank
(under the TCP) has funded a collaborative research project with the Russian
Research Center for Preventive Medicine and Goskomstat to collect household
data for monitoring the health and nutritional status of Russian families.
The results will provide the first in-depth assessment of the relationship of
family income to health and nutritional status. On this basis, the Bank is
planning a future health project that would address the longer-term
restructuring of this essential sector.
Trainina and Institutional Development
151.      The Government faces critical human resource and institutional
constraints in designing and carrying out its ambitious reform program. For
example, there are only some 40 staff in the agency responsible for the
world's largest privatization effort. A high priority must be given to
strengthening the capacity of policy-makers in core and sectoral agencies to
develop and implement reforms. The Bank has extended significant assistance
through the TCP and economic and sector work, particularly in the fields of
macroeconomic policy advice, privatization, financial sector reform, social
protection policies, and intergovernmental fiscal affairs. The lending
operations in privatization and social services will also seek to build
institutional capacity to implement reforms.
152.      More generally, while technical expertise and education levels are
quite high in Russia, market-oriented professional skills are needed in the
public and private sectors. In the accounting field alone, an estimated two
million accountants must be retrained in internationally-based systems within
the next few years. The Government is developing training strategies to
address critical skill gaps. The Bank will support this effort, based on an
investigation of training requirements needed immediately to support market-
oriented reforms, including a possible Training project. The EDI already has
a substantial program underway, initiated under the TCP, both to train
government officials and to train trainers in financial sector issues,
privatization and macroeconomics.



- 46 -
153.      Finally, there is an urgent need to build the institutional capacity
to identify, prepare, implement and coordinate externally-funded assistance.
Relations with international agencies are presently highly centralized in the
Government, which is a serious bottleneck to the rapid development of a robust
lending program. Greater decentralization of decision-making authority to
line agencies and ministries, complemented by improved coordination activities
at the central level, are essential for the realization of the Bank's program.
This problem has not yet been fully appreciated by the Government. The
Rehabilitation Loan will provide a framework for sensitizing officials about
the need to address aid management activities in a more systematic and
collaborative fashion and to allocate sufficient resources in the Government
to carry out these tasks in a more efficient manner. It will also familiarize
officials with technical aspects of the project cycle, such as international
competitive procurement procedures. The ZVI is supporting this effort by
training officials in project identification and analysis.
B.        Summary of the Bank's Assistance Program
154.      Lendina Program.  Based on the priorities indicated above, the
Bank's lending program is expected to increase from a level of 4-6 operations
totalling around $1.5 billion in FY93 to 7-9 operations totalling $2.0 billion
or more by FY95. The portfolio will include a mix of adjustment and
investment operations, with the proportion of project loans becoming larger as
the economic situation stabilizes and the current account deficit improves.
The justification for this large lending program will depend critically upon a
continuation of satisfactory performance with respect to macroeconomic and
systemic and structural reforms, as well as the establishment of a suitable
institutional structure within the Government to manage externally-funded
assistance, including a framework for deciding priorities for financial
support and mechanisms for coordination within the Government and with other
institutions providing external financing.
155.      Economic and Sector Work.  During the current fiscal year, much of
the Bank's advice on economic and institutional reforms will be derived by
synthesizing and consolidating the major results of the TCP program. In
addition to an initial country economic report for Russia, sector reports
based on TCP activities in agriculture, social protection, fiscal federalism,
energy, housing, transport, municipal services and training needs are expected
to be completed during FY93. These reports, along with technical assistance,
are designed to provide the analytical basis and cross-country insights to
facilitate the reform process and help establish an appropriate policy
environment for future lending. The SSW program for future years is
necessarily more uncertain and will depend critically on the pace of the
reform program and the receptivity of the Government to Bank advice.
156.      Technical Assistance.   Both to support the Government in the design
of structural reforms and to assist in the institutional development needed
for their effective implementation, a large demand for technical assistance is
envisioned. Building upon the solid basis established by the TCP, the Bank's
future technic-il assistance activities could either be provided through free-



- 47 -
standing operations or as components of project and program lending. For
example, both the Privatization and Social Protection projects mentioned above
include significant TA components to support the Government's reform program.
Additional technical assistance may be desirable to elaborate specific reforms
in the financial sector, establish appropriate procurement and accounting
practices, and to support a broad range of institutional and legal reforms.
The expansion of the Resident Mission in Moscow will strengthen the Bank's
capacity to deal with the increasing volume and complexity of technical
assistance activities that are underway.
C.        Other Bank Grouo Activities
157.      IFC will focus on three areas to assist in the development of a
private sector: advisory services for privatization activities; investment in
the viable private sector projects, particularly those involving foreign
investment; and capital market development. Building on its experience in the
small privatization activity in Nizhny Novgorod, IFC will continue to help the
Russian government with small-scale privatization and in addition will assist
in the privatization of large-scale enterprises. Investment activity will
particularly focus on creating the regulatory and administrative framework for
foreign investment. In capital markets, IFC will assist in the creation of
new financial institutions as well as providing financial sector advisory
services. Under the TCP, the FIAS has been advising the Government on the
appropriate legal, policy and institutional framework needed to attract and
regulate foreign direct investment. Its recommendations on a range of actions
to encourage more foreign investment is expected to be discussed with the
Government shortly. Once Russia becomes a member of MIGA, new foreign
investments would be eligible for non-commercial risk guarantees, and specific
promotional and advisory services will be considered.
D.        Collaboration with Other Aaencies
158.      Close coordination has been maintained with the IMF, EC, EBRD, OECD,
and other aid agencies in developing our planned operations and to ensure the
efficient use of technical assistance, as well as other cofinancing resources.
For example, the Bank and EBRD are working together on the Privatization
project, and the EC is interested in collaborating in the design of employment
services. It has been more difficult, however, to harmonize approaches with
the myriad technical assistance interventions of bilateral agencies, private
foundations and NGOs. Given the large amounts of financing that could become
available for technical assistance, capital investments, and humanitarian
needs, there have been extensive efforts by external agencies to exchange
information on programs for the FSU. Two international coordinating
conferences have contributed to this process, particularly by cataloguing
humanitarian needs, operational priorities and assistance offers, primarily
for TA. Realizing the full potential of various assistance efforts already
under way and/or planned will require strengthened coordination by the
Government and the establishment of consistent approaches among donors.
Establishing appropriate systems and strengthening the central government
agencies to fulfill these responsibilities is of the highest priority at this
stage of the reform process.



- 48 -
159.      The Bank has been working closely with the IMF.  Procedures for
collaboration have been outlined in an exchange of memoranda between the two
institutions spelling out the primary areas of responsibilities for the two
institutions. In addition to a regular exchange of information, Bank and Fund
teams have collaborated extensively during the preparation of the
Rehabilitation Loan and the IMF First Credit Tranche Arrangeme.nt, with Bank
staff assuming the lead in discussions on systemic reforms and Fund staff on
the stabilization program. Parallel missions have been in field over the past
several months to ensure that the respective operations were consistent and
complementary. The Bank intends to continue these close contacts in
developing future operations and as part of its responsibilities to monitor
progress on systemic and structural reforms under the Rehabilitation Loan.
VI. THB REUABILITAION LOAN
A.        Oriain and Obiectives
160.      The Rehabilitation Loan has been prepared in close association with
the IMF's First Credit Tranche Arrangement. The Bank has concentrated on
developing the program of systemic reforms described in Part IV above and in
the attached Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies. This program lays out a
framework for reforms which are necessary for the medium-term restructuring of
the Russian economy (especially as regards privatization and enterprise
reform) and establishes realistic targets and indicators to monitor progress
over the coming year.
161.      The proposed Rehabilitation Loan is based on the existence of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework in the form of an agreed program with the
IMF, and on a recognition of the substantial progress already made by the
Government in initiating the reform process, especially in the area of price
liberalization and exchange rate unification. If implemented successfully,
the reform program would provide a sound basis for future Bank assistance to
Russia.
162.      In this context, the proposed Rehabilitation Loan will finance
imports to restore essential services in the transport and health sectors and
maintain production levels in the agriculture and coal sectors. In addition,
it will provide financing for imports by the growing commercial private
sector, which depends on the Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange as
its primary point of access to foreign exchange. Finally, this operation
provides a mechanism to familiarize the Government with the structure of Bank
operations, including project preparation, procurement, disbursement,
financial monitoring and project supervision. Provided that the Government
maintains its commitment to the reform program, subsequent operations would
move increasingly in the direction of adjustment and project lending.



- 49 -
B.        Proiect Description
163.      The Rehabilitation Loan would provide $600 million to finance
imports in support of Russia's program of stabilization and economic reform.
The Loan would be divided into two components: the Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign
Exchange Market (MIFCE) -- $250 million; and the Pre-Identified Imports
Component (PIC) -- $350 million. The allocation of the loan between the MIFCE
and PIC components is based on the expected volume and absorptive capacity of
each channel. Flexibility is needed, however, since tha situation is rapidly
evolving. Same reallocation between the two components will be possible by
mutual agreement, based on actual disbursement performance and need. A review
of the need for reallocation is expected to take place before the end of 1992.
Retroactive financing of up to US$60 million would be made available for
eligible imports under the PIC for which payment was made on or after June 16,
1992 (the date on which Russia became a member of the World Bank). The
proceeds of the Rehabilitation Loan are expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1993.
164.      Moscow Inter-Bank Foreian Currency Exchange.  With the unification
of the exchange rate on July 1, 1992, all foreign exchange transactions take
place at the rate set by the Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange.
(For a description of the operations of the MIFCE, see Annex 3.) The
Government intends to expand the volume of transactions taking place through
the MIFCE to strengthen the role of market forces in allocating foreign
exchange. As part of the unification process, the Government has imposed a
uniform surrender requirement of 50 percent on foreign exchange earnings.8L
In support of this process, financing will be provided for imports purchased
by the growing commercial sector on the basis of the Bank's standard negative
list approach. Such funds, once they have been reimbursed to the CBR on the
basis of customs certificates, will be available for use in the MIFCE or for
other purposes determined by the CBR.
165.      Pre-Identified Import Component (PIC).  Bank financing would be
provided for the CIF costs of public sector priority imports on the basis of a
list of sectors and goods identified by the Government and approved by the
Bank. All transactions will take place at the market exchange rate. Funds
will be provided through the budget to cover the cost of the imports at the
market exchange rate, part of which may be recovered from the end users at
prevailing local prices. Import needs totalling $350 million have been
tentatively identified for the agriculture, health, transport and coal
sectors. The lists of eligible imports will be refined with the assistance of
I/ As of July 1, 1992, all foreign exchange export proceeds are to be
repatriated immediately and are subject to a surrender requirement of 50
percent to authorized banks, of which 30 percentage points have to be
surrendered at the unified rate to the CBR. It is intended to begin to reduce
the requirement to surrender to the CBR during the next few months, with a
view to its eventual abolition.



- so -
the Project Implementation Unit (see para. 169) to identify specific goods
that can be procured relatively quickly in order to speed-up the process of
disbursement. The lists of imports may be amended from time to time by mutual
agreement between the Government and the Bank, based on the criteria listed in
Annex 4 for selecting imports.
(a) Agriculture -- lS150 million). The Government has requested
financing for: (i) spare parts, equipment and packaging materials
for food-processing industries; and (ii) spare parts and equipment
for storage units for on-farm and near-farm storage of agricultural
products and/or inputs. In addition, depending on the availability
of other sources of financing, the following additional imports
would be eligible for financing under the Loan: (i) pesticides
(herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides) subject to the Bank's
environment requirements (see para. 180); (ii) high protein
feedstuffs for poultry; (iii) veterinary products for livestock and
poultry; (iv) high yielding maize seeds in bulk and seed-cleaning
equipment. Food losses due to storage and food-handling problems
currently amount to around one-third of harvested production.
Moreover, over a quarter of total crop production is lost to pests.
Spare parts, equipment and packaging materials are urgently required
to improve on-farm and near-farm storage facilities and maintain
existing food processing enterprises in operating condition prior to
privatization.
(b) Health -- fSlOG million). The disruption of supply
arrangements within the CMEA and FSU has left Russia dependent on
imports for approximately 60 percent of pharmaceuticals and other
medical supplies. Emergency assistance has been important in
meeting immediate needs, but critical gaps remain. With respect to
pharmaceuticals, the most acute shortages include vaccines,
particularly for childhood diseases, and essential drugs for the
treatment of dysentery, tuberculosis and acute respiratory
infections. Disposable needles and syringes for the administration
of drugs and vaccines are also in short supply. Hospitals need
basic surgery and laboratory equipment. With these priorities in
mind, the Bank has tentatively identified critical imports in the
following four categories: (i) imported finished pharmaceuticals
procured under international generic names; (ii) raw materials for
the production of vaccines; (iii) raw materials for the production
of drugs; and (iv) medical equipment. In addition, a small
component to improve the registration of drugs is under review. At
this time the Bank does not foresee the need for an allocation in
excess of $100 million in view of available financing from other
donors.
(c) Trans2ort -- (S50 million). The disruption of trading patterns
within the CMEA and changes in traffic flows within the FSU have put
severe stress on specific segments of the transportation network.
This is particularly true at the port of Saint Petersburg, where a
combination of neglected maintenance and the diversion of Russian



- 51 -
imports and exports to domestic ports is causing severe capacity
problems in cargo handling. Emergency imports of equipment to
improve port operations at Saint Petersburg have been identified,
which would provide time for the authorities to develop a longer-
term strategy for port expansion and improvement. In addition,
requirements for spare parts (mainly rear axles and engine parts)
have been identified to return existing buses to service in urban
areas in order to prevent a deterioration in commuting services.
The Ministry of Transport has also requested funding for vehicles
and aircraft spare parts, which are being reviewed to determine the
merits of the proposals.
(d) Coal Industry -- (S50 million). At negotiations, the
Government made an urgent request for the Bank to finance spare
parts and equipment to maintain existing coal production facilities
in working condition. Up to $50 million has been tentatively
allocated for this purpose under the Rehabilitation Loan, provided
that the Bank can establish that such imports meet the Bank's
technical, financial and economic guidelines and Environmental
Assessments are completed to the Bank's satisfaction prior to the
procurement of any equipment for the coal sector (see para. 180).
166.      Procurement and distribution arrangements for all categories of
critical imports, as well as cost recovery from the final beneficiaries, have
been discussed with the relevant agencies and will be finalized prior to the
allocation of funds for each of the various categories.
C.        lmolementation Resoonsibilities
167.      The Department for Interaction with International Financial
Institutions (DIIFI), which is responsible for overall coordination with the
Bank and the IMF on the design and monitoring of the economic reform and
stabilization program, will work with the Ministry of Finance in setting
sectoral priorities for the PIC component.
168.      The First Deputy Minister of Finance will be the representative of
the Government for the loan. In conjunction with the DIIFI, the Ministry of
Finance will define sectoral priorities and submit for Bank approval the lists
of imports eligible for financing under the PIC. It will also be responsible
for the allocation of budgetary resources to the importing agencies.
169.      A Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU) with local s*laffing and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank will be established in the Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations to oversee the implementation of the PIC (and
possibly other proposed import credits). One of the most important tasks of
the PIU will be to provide technical assistance to the local importing
agencies to help them procure goods under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The U.K. Know-How Fund has been approached by the Government with a request to
finance the recruitment of procurement experts to be located in the PIU.



- 52 -
These experts will advise the PIU and local importers on all aspects of
procurement, including preparing the bidding documents, selecting suppliers
and awarding contracts, and monitoring of procurement activities related to
the PIC. A suitable candidate has been identified by the Government to head
the PIU, and draft terms of reference for the PIU and the technical assistance
component were agreed at negotiations. Formal establishment of the PIU, as
well as completion of arrangements for technical assistance to the PIU, will
be a condition of disbursement for the PIC portion of the Rehabilitation Loan.
170.      The sectoral ministries, under the supervision of the Ministry of
Finance and the PIU, will be responsible for the importation of goods, and for
their distribution to the final users.
171.      The Central Ban,k of Russia (CBR) will be responsible for the
implementation of the MIFCE component under the terms of a Subsidiary
Agreement to be signed with the Ministry of Finance. Signature of the
Subsidiary Agreement will be a condition of disbursement of the MIFCE
component. Under this agreement, the CBR would purchase the foreign exchange
from the Government in rubles at the prevailing unified exchange rate.
D.        Disbursements
172.      The Bank will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported goods under both the MIFCE and PIC Components. Detailed
disbursements procedures for each component would be as follows:
173.      MIFCE Component.  Disbursements would be made to the CBR on the
basis of the Bank's standard negative list, following, for goods valued at
less than $S5 million equivalent, the simplified documentation procedures for
adjustment operations described in the recent Board note on this subject
(SecM92-767; June 8, 1992). For those contracts each valued at less than $5
million equivalent, the Bank would reimburse CBR on the basis of SOEs prepared
from the customs certificates showing that eligible goods at least equal in
value to the amount requested from the Bank had been imported into the country
during the period under consideration. The custom certificates will be
retained by CBR for review by Bank supervision missions and for subsequent
audit by the external auditors. For contracts each valued at $5 million
equivalent or more, the Bank would reimburse CBR against traditional
documentation: contracts, suppliers invoices, evidence of payment and evidence
of shipment. In addition, to avoid overdependence by the MIFCE on borrowed
funds, it has been agreed with Government and the CBR that the disbursement of
Bank funds for the MIFCE component should not exceed 30 percent of the CBR's
intervention level for the period for which reimbursement is sought.2L The
if For the purpose of applying this condition, it was agreed that the
definition would include interventions by the CBR on other foreign currency
exchanges (such as Saint Petersburg) provided that the Bank had an opportunity
to review the organization and structure of each exchange prior to including



- 53 -
CBR will therefore provide a statement of its interventions in the NIFCE
market for the period covered by each disbursement application, which will
provide a ceiling for the Bank's reimbursement.
174.      PIC.  Disbursements for the PIC would be on the basis of fully
documented applications prepared and submitted by the PIU.
175.      Financial Accountability.  Project accounting systems will be
established by the CBR and by the PIU to enable accurate accounting for
receipts and payments, appropriate financial reporting and auditing of the use
of funds. Financial reporting will comprise statements of the receipt of Bank
funds and of disbursements during the reporting period for eligible
expenditures under the MIFCE and PIC components, respectively. The financial
statements will be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and
appointed by the Government audit office for the PIC component and by the CBR
for the MIFCE component. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the final disbursements through the MIFCE and PIC
components, respectively.
E.        Procurement
176.      MIFCE Comnonent.  As it is expected that the MIFCE component will be
used exclusively for the import of goods procured by competitive enterprises
in the commercial sector, procurement for all contracts below $5 million
equivalent will be done directly by the importers using commercial practices;
the Bank will not require prior approval of documentation regarding
procurement methods followed. Contracts in excess of this amount would be
subject to normal Bank procurement procedures and prior clearance. The
standard negative list of imports has been agreed with Government.
177.      PIC.  All procurement for the PIC will follow Bank guidelines for
international procurement established in OD. 11.00 and will be subject to the
Bank's prior approval. Agreement has been reached to provide financing for
imports for the health, agriculture, transport and coal sectors. Specific
lists of commodities for each sector will be proposed by Government for the
Banks' approval before procurement can start. Changes to these lists can be
made with prior agreement of the Bank.
178.      For both the MIFCE and PIC components, goods which are provided by
nationals of, or produced in or supplied from republics of the FSU, are
eligible, even if these countries have not yet formalized their membership in
the Bank.
it within the limit to ensure that the exchange met reasonable standards of
prudency and sound financial management.



- 54 -
F.        Agreements Reached
179.      Understandings acceptable to the Bank were reached at negotiations
on the following topics in order to ensure successful project implementation:
(a) confirmation of the Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies; (b) staffing
and responsibilities of the PIU and the request for technical assistance from
the U.K. Know-How Fund; (c) the criteria for selection of goods to be procured
under the MIFCE and PIC components (Annex 4); (d) the Subsidiary Agreement
between the Ministry of Finance and the CBR for the MIFCE component; and (e)
disbursement and audit procedures for the MIFCE and PIC components.
G.        Environmental Aspects
180.      Pending the outcome of a review of the need for Environmental
Assessments for coal sector imports, the project has been tentatively placed
in the B-category with respect to its environmental ranking. If full
Environmental Assessments are needed, the Government would be required to
complete them prior to the procurement of any equipment for the coal sector,
using its own resources and based on terms of reference and choice of an
executing agency which are acceptable to the Bank. The other possible
environmental impact of the project may be from imports of agro-chemicals.
Agro-chemicals to be financed would be selected and used in accordance with
Bank guidelines in order to minimize their environmental impact. To be
declared eligible for inclusion in the positive list for the PIC, their
procurement will have to strictly follow the guidelines established in O.D.
11.00, paragraphs 119 to 121.
B.        Rationale for Bank Involvement
181.      Through the TCP program, the Bank has played an important role in
the development of the Government's reform program, particularly for the key
systemic reforms that are essential for the medium-term restructuring of the
Russian economy. As the focus of the reform program begins to shift
increasingly toward sectoral and institutional development, the Bank's
experience, both in the preparation and implementation of specific investment
projects and in the complex process of multi-institutional coordination, can
play an important role in maintaining the process of reforms. In addition to
its technical expertise, the Bank will contribute to the overall financing
package needed to meet Russia's balance of payments requirements. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to the reform program in the
initial stages of restructuring of the Russian economy; Bank support for this
process is fully justified.
I.        Benefits and Risks
182.      The potential benefits to be derived from a successful reform
program in Russia are enormous. Russia possesses vast natural wealth and a
high level of educational development and technological achievement. The
legal and institutional structures underlying market economies will take time
to develop in the Russian environment. Nevertheless, provided that the



- 55 -
Government maintains a consistent approach to reforms, and provided that
investment can increase rapidly in the private sector, there is a good chance
that Russia will be able to stop its declining production trends and begin to
make substantial in-roads into the backlog of rehabilitation investment that
is needed to revive economic growth. The major hope in this respect is by
generating foreign exchange through the export of energy and minerals.
183.      While the potential benefits of a successful reform program are
clear, the risks relating to its satisfactory implementation are substantial.
As mentioned earlier (paras. 48-54), uncertainties relating to Dolitical and
Dolicv slipDaaes, implementation capacitv, and the availability of financina
place sharp constraints on the ability of the Government to implement reforms
in clear and coherent fashion. Russia has maintained the structure of a
command economy longer and in greater depth than any other country in the
world. The partial and inconsistent nature of the reform process over the
past five years has sharply worsened macroeconomic imbalances, making the
process of economic transition much more difficult. This problem is
exacerbated by the de facto financial autonomy acquired by many state
enterprises and local governments, which impairs Government's ability to
control key aspects of the stabilization and reform program (such as the level
of credit expansion, the pace of the privatization program, and the
maintenance of inter-republican trade ties). The process of industrial
restructuring, with its attendant prospects of massive unemployment, has not
yet begun in earnest, and popular discontent about the reform program can be
expected to increase as the level of unemployment rises. Finally, ethnic and
jurisdictional tensions within Russia create severe political risks in a large
and geographically diverse setting. Thus, the implementation of the reform
program is likely to be subject to a variety of uncertainties and slippages,
although the overall direction of the reform program in terms of establishing
a market economy appears to be established.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
184.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments.
July 22, 1992
Washington, D.C.



- 57 -
Social Indicat*ors of Development, 1991-92
Russian Federation
25-30     15-20 a* u~
tr.,Q of    -  =         YMM         eg
num                                  (MNg,  age  (siww)     Ew       grPOW
HUMAN RESOURCES
SIia groweRs  ucreofpopuadas
Tp?LRuW (   1990)                      *                            _thuszds  148.25  200439    45871    816.31
TOWs steaf"3oop. _                                _                              . z63              $38         19.1
1564                                                       _          _          _        64.6       60.9      67.2
Age deFm4entCyo                     _    ,,                                               0.54       0.63       0.49
Puuaege in uibw a.oipop. _   f                                                 74.0       6L         71S        783
Fimala per 100 ma
uanbe r                     _    '                                        -
Runi                                                       ..     _ .            -
P.>uianowtO g.                                                          ..ed  *_  0.4       0.8        1.7       O0S
P= 111a    *                                                                               2.2        2.8       0.7
Urb&/Wzl gretwh diffaedal                difm                -          _                   3.4        3.         0.5
P jmd popelaon: 2000                    thousands                                        216.7    541.229    8594163
Detusinants otpopuiad  grow
Foesility
Cmd,bi]rtuh m                           rlhoupop.                              14.7       17.8       24.9       13.0
Total ferUsyaze rb pwo n                                    ..        ..       2.29       2.00       3.10       1.72
Conatcepave pivafro                 r         lS w= 15.49   _         _          -          ..         ..         .
Odild (0-4) / womn (IS-49) faeos
Urban                 pe 100 ..ia  _
Rural                                                       _                               ..         ..         -
Monday
Cmde deaae                            prtha. pop.           _         _        14          9.6        7.5       8.8
tnfammonahtv raze                  Per tho. liqm pa bu du _                   17.2       27.6       41.8       8.0
UnderSmo=aliy ua                                          -_                              28.0      49.8        13.0
ifeex    n ubi ve                           a            65.?       6a8        713        70.6       68.3      76.7
famal.                                        -             76.8       74.0      71.5       80.
Labor for (15-4
ToAl labor fosre                        thosands           798       1,04       1,91     94497    172353    39S.6S7
Agrieziruw                         Saaborfa             6           1.0         _. 
iAuSw                      -             ~~~~~~~~           ~    ~~~~~~19.4  23S   _
F--           19.4 '_.._                       40.7       304       38.5
Funwa per 100 Mal
Urba                                    number--   
Puqpoa em oillaborfu_                                                                      47.5.      38.5       4S.0
(al, 3In                                               32.1       392        383        2.3        35.8
Eduea*OUa aualnm. oftabszrfore
Sdcool yea Completd overau a                               _ _               _       _
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                    thou. sq. km     17.075     17,075     110?5      2,171     18.709     32,12S
Dperqik                                                      -    _          _               92        24         25
Api%rlad                               %o land ara           _                  383        54.6       34.3       35.9
AgcuI-Alldi                             per sq.              _          ..         _        168        70         70
Fuu andwoodliud                         t,hoursq.1           ._                             616      7116       9.2L2
Deforeeruo mte (ne)                         *                         _                     0.0        0          0.2
Acum. to safe wate                       % -ofjp.---                                                  80
Urbacn                                     P*               -            °        .-   * 088.7
Rural                                                       -                    -          -        63.8 _
Population growth                         Infant mortalty                      Primary school enrollment
s             .e                                                                          ____________:
3m                            ~~~~~UN
3                                       in
1                                                                                   3i
0  ____________________        0_________________too 
~~  egy?b                Eb        7~~~~~~~  -                     4b     mplb       is~~~~~4
U Ra*.imA~~ L



-58 -
Socia Indicatrs of Development, 1991.92
Russian Federation
25.30      15-20       rcn
Untit Of       Ye=         7W1       E*sthU*                             highe
owaswe      ago         ag"        (rae)      &rope       iascn      gon"
LINCONM AND POVERTY
Income
GIOpr cpt m meu                               USS                             ..                            3,450      19,660
Total household minmne
Share oto p lQ% of housholds             % ofjinconi                        ..
Shame to op 20% of households                                               .          -.--
Shame to houmn 40% of households.                                           ...-.-
Shame Lo bouian 20% of households                               * 
Poi'oty
Absolute povemy income: urbam            USS per person..-.
Pop. in absolute povmry Uibtf               % ofpop. 
Prevalence of mazutricion (uinder 5)      % of age group          .           ..
EXPENDrrURE
Food                                       .% of GDp              .:
Staples                                                         . 
Mea. ifish, milk. cheese, eggs-
Cereal Inipons               ~~~~~~thou. metric tonies  -          ...                 9         39,280      68,753
Food aid ut oteas
Food proouctuopr caoita                   1979;1=100              ..         .           .        OL         106.0      101.
Sham of agricum  inreCnDP                  % ofGCDP              ..          .         6.         12.2        9.0         2.6
Dayc plpy'  cUPValories papersa                            ..          ..                  3,446       3.013      3,416
D&4 pmmn supvy                gramsper persal...                              -          99          77        105
Housing                                    % Of GDP               ...                    ..                     -
Average household size                peons per household        ..3.3                 3.2-
Fi;xed investmnent housing                 V. Of GDP              ..                   3.7          . 
Fuel mnd power                             %Of GDP               ....,                              - 
Enem  cons=ron cop  capita              kg of oil equivalus       .          ..                2,68.0      1,794.4    S.122.9
Hou=olds wit eiomaz                        ofhuhls.                          .
Urban                                  %O iucod                                                                 
Rural 
Transprt and comtmunicadloa                %.of GD?P.                                  6.9                      - 
Population per passnger car                 ,P¶n,                                                               11         2
Fixed investinail transport equipaier      4of GDP                           ..
TOta road length.                             kmn..,
Population per telehone                     persns               .           ..                
INVESTMELNT IN HUMAN CAPfrAL
Medical care                               V. f GD?               . 
Population per. physician                   person"s              .-.                             54-
nurse...                                                                    ..-
hospital bad                                                    -.                      .-
Access to health cam                        * of pop.             .
minmunized (under 12 montths): mass      %. of age group         ...                               7.1       78.3        73.
DPI'                 ..         ..          ..       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~90.1  81.  82.7
Oral Rehydratio Therapy use (under 5)      V. of cases           ...                     -.                                -
Education                                  V. of GDP             .
Gross enrolienteu rtos
Priinary. total                      % of school-age group.                .                    101.0      105.9      1043
feanle                                                  .....                            9r            .       102.
Secondary: toal-...                                                                             72.3        563        91.6
female                                                .                                70.6       58.9        92.8
Teulazry sciencdelag tangV Of teniaty Students                    ....                               -          - 
Pupils rmaching grade 4                    V. Of cohort           .          .                    97.7       77.8        96.2
Rse' caw mte: primary                    at o total erollmet      ...                    .5.2                17.6 
Iliteracy rate: overall                 %  (ofp. i(age 15+~       ..                                 -        is.i
female                    %.of female (age I +)       .                      --                   17.7
Newspaperciroaiation           ~~~per thoui. pop.      .                      -       174.7       100.9      333.1
Saume Werld R.sk hinmaL mia0vuvz. Ap. 1992



- 59_
ANNEX 1
Page 1
3AMECrITmaI nPEj[CEAATEJU
IIPABtTFrBA
PoccHucKOfl FEaPAWI
20   niiz           92
AM-n24-M                 Mr. Lewis T. PRESTO I
President, International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
.MOCICBA                 3.818 H Street ".W.
Washington, D.C. 204Z3
U.S.A.
Dear Mr . Preston,
The attached Memorandum on Economic Reformn Policies
outlines the  prqgram  of macroeconomic stabilization  and
systemic refor-ms of the Russian Federation. We request the
World Bank to support this program with a Rehabilitation
Loan in the anount of $600 million equivalent.
It is exirt intention to implement the pragram described
in the attached fleworandum in order to achieve a rapid
resumption   of  economic  growth  within   a  sustainable
macroeconomic framework. Given the complexity of the
transition to a market-oriented economy, it is inevitable
that there will be some uncertainties regarding the
implementation of thils program. Some adjustments and
corrective  actions  are  likely  to  be  required.  We will
closely monitor the progress of our reform  program and we
will, where appropriate, review necessary adjustments with
the World Bank_
While this is the first World Sank loan to Russia, we
look forward to the Bank's continuing cooperation and
support.  The  Government  attaches  high  priority  to  the
propoed loans in support of our privatization program and
to strengthen our employaent services. Two other sectors of
high priority for us are the petroleum sector and the
agricultural sector. We are at present reviewing our
objectives and policies in these two areas, and will- be
implementing programs which I belleve will fully justify
support from the World Bank- We hope that arrangements for
both a Petroleum Sector Loan and an Agricultural Sector Loan
can be completed before the end of 1992.
Sincerely yours,
A Shokhin
Deputy Chairman
Government of the Russian Federation



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
MEMORANDUM ON ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Introduction
1.          Russia has embarked upon a bold program of economic reform.  The
objective is to more effectively meet the needs of the Russian people by creating
a market economy that is increasingly integrated into the world economy. Such
a transition would not be easy under the best of circumstances and,  in this
case, the process has had to be initiated under difficult circumstances. Output
has declined substantially since 1990 (including the output of petroleum, our
most important foreign exchange earner). At the end of 1991, the economy was on
the verge of falling into serious macroeconomic instability, while at the same
time microeconomic distortions and imbalances were increasing. Adding to the
complications, our economic transition has to be accomplished at the same time
as our society is establishing new political and administrative structures.
2.          At the beginning of 1992 the Government undertook major steps toward
both economic liberalization and financial stabilization -- although the
inevitable impact of the liberalization process was an initial large increase in
prices. The present need is to extend the progress already made in liberalizing
and stabilizing the economy, while at the same time accelerating the pace of the
systemic and structural changes.    The Government has recently completed a
"Program for Deepening Economic Reform" which has been examined and taken into
consideration by the Supreme Soviet. This program is based upon our recognition
that further structural changes -- particularly those related to creating an
efficient and competitive market economy -- are essential if we are to realize
the potential benefits of the liberalization measures already taken. Given the
decline in output that has already taken place, we must also minimize further
declines and, as soon as possible, begin to restore output and labor
productivity.
3.          The economic program outlined in this Memorandum on Economic Reform
Policies has been designed to support these objectives. The Memorandum begins
with a review of our programs regarding macroeconomic management, external
economic relations,  and pricing policies.   This discussion has been kept
relatively brief; a fuller discussion of our program in these areas will be found
in the Economic Memorandum we submitted to the International Monetary Fund on
July 10, 1992. The memorandum submitted to the Bank focusses upon the structural
reforms, policies and institutions needed to create an efficient market economy.
Macroeconomic Management. External Economic Relations and Price Policies
4.          Administrative controls on prices at the central level have been
removed for the large majority of products, with the major exceptions being



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
energy, freight and transportation fares, precious metals and certain medicines.
Local governments may subsidize milk and bread out of their own financial
resources, and regulate housing rents and public utility rates.   Given the
critical need to increase production and investment in the energy sector and
restructure relative prices to eliminate economic distortions, energy prices will
be allowed to rise gradually to reach world market levels within a two year
period and, in the meantime, will not be allowed to decline in real terms.
S.          Fiscal restraint is central to the success of the reform program.
We recently carried out a major overhaul of the revenue system with the
introduction of value-added and excise taxes to replace our previous tax
instruments that were more appropriate to a centrally planned economy, and we
intend to strengthen and extend these measures in order to increase revenue
growth in the future.   Expenditures have been restrained largely through
reductions in subsidies, military spending, and investment financed through the
budget, and we intend to continue pruning lower-priority expenditures.   The
Government believes that the measures outlined below will contain the deficit of
the enlarged general government on a commitments basis to below 10 percent in the
second half of 1992. It is expected that deficit financing from the domestic
banking system would be about 5 percent of GDP; the remainder of the financing
requirement would be met from foreign sources and issuance of domestic securities
at market rates.
6.          Monetary policy will be consistent with our objectives of reducing
the monthly rate of inflation to 9 percent by December of 1992, strengthening the
external account, and encouraging the restructuring of the economy along
commercial lines. We intend to seek agreement as soon as possible on a precise
definition of responsibilities and benefits of membership in the ruble zone, as
well as agreements on the orderly withdrawal of those states wishing to leave the
ruble zone. The CBR stands ready to change the finance rate flexibly in the
light of developments in prices, the foreign exchange market, and the level of
official reserves. This interest rate policy will involve moving the CER finance
rate to a positive real level by the end of 1992. No limits on deposit and
lending interest rates (except the 3 percent margin on lending supported by CBR
credit) will be imposed.  By August 1, 1992, Sberbank deposit rates will be
increased to a level ranging from 10 percent for sight deposits to 60 percent for
long-term  deposits.    Measures  will  be  taken  to  reduce  the  level  of
interenterprise arrears,  including the establishment of the Agency for the
Management of Enterprises' Debts, an increase in penalty interest rates on
enterprise arrears and improvements in the system for clearing payments through
the  banking system.  The elimination of this problem, however, will depend
critically on the adoption of adequate bankruptcy provisions. A Presidential
Decree on bankruptcy was issued in June 1992 and neither the Government nor the
CBR will stand in the way of bankruptcies.
7.          A unified exchange system with a freely floating market determined
exchange rate in the interbank market was implemented on July 1, 1992. Further
measures are being taken to broaden the foreign exchange market, including the
elimination by August 1, 1992, of restrictions on the export of foreign banknotes



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
by authorized banks. Authorized banks will be allowed to hold--within limits set
by prudential regulations--open foreign exchange positions. Importers have free
access to foreign exchange for all current international transactions. A draft
foreign exchange law consistent with the principles of convertibility for current
international transactions for residents is being considered by the Supreme
Soviet.   By August 1, the CBR will issue the necessary foreign exchange
regulations, covering capital as well as current transact:ons. It is intended
to extend the same convertibility to nonresidents as soon as the monetary
arrangements in the ruble area have been settled. During the program period, the
Government does not intend to introduce new, or intensify existing, exchange
restrictions or multiple currency practices, including any bilateral payments
agreements that are inconsistent with Article VIII of the IMF's Articles of
Agreement; nor will the Government impose any import restrictions for balance of
payments purposes, except those consistent with arrangements for the ruble area
to be agreed with the other states of the ruble area. Export quotas and licenses
are being eliminated, except for energy products and goods subject to voluntary
export restraints; by September 30, 1992, licenses will be allocated on the basis
of an auction system. No recourse will be made to quantitative restrictions on
imports. Agreements will be sought with other republics of the former Soviet
Union regarding removal of barriers to interrepublican trade (except, for a
transitional period, export quotas on energy products).
The Transition to a Comnetitive Market Economy
8.          The transition from a command economy to a competitive market economy
involves radical changes not only in the institutional structure of our economy,
but also in the way people think. We must create a new environment in which the
actions of individual enterprise managers will more efficiently meet the needs
of our people.   The price liberalization has been a major step forward.
Similarly, our trade and exchange rate policies include major steps toward
integrating our economy with the broader world economy, thus requiring Russian
enterprises to become fully competitive with producers elsewhere. Our tighter
financial and monetary policies are already making enterprise managers more cost
conscious. We are now undertaking additional steps which are needed to create
a competitive market economy. These include (i) enterprise reform, including
both privatization and improved management of those enterprises remaining in the
state sector; (ii) pro-competition measures, including both dismantling existing
monopolistic structures and encouraging the growth of new private enterprises;
(iii) the encouragement of direct foreign investment; and (iv) creating a
financial sector that can meet the needs of a market economy.  This radical
restructuring of the economy must be expected to result in a temporary, but
substantial, increase in unemployment; consequently, it is essential that
appropriate social protection policies be in place.   The remainder of this
memorandum concerns these systemic and structural issues.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Enterprise Reform
9.          As an integral part of the Government's policy to transform the
Russian economy into a market based economy, a vast majority of all enterprises
must be privatized as soon as possible. Clearly, such a major undertaking will
take some time to design and implement, but the Government is developing plans
which will detail the transformation along predetermined paths.
10.         For the privatization of small scale enterprises, the Committee for
Management of Property (GRI) is preparing a simplified and flexible scheme which
will be announced by the end of August 1992. The scheme will stress the urgency
of the matter and include encouragement as well as technical assistance to
regions to begin implementing privatization programs by the end of September
1992. It is the Government's hope that municipal and regional authorities, who
are responsible for implementing this part of the privatization program, will
respond to this technical assistance and that the privatization program for small
scale enterprises will be substantially completed by the end of 1993.
11.         For large scale enterprises (i.e., state enterprises with fixed
assets above rubles 50 million or with more than 1,000 employees), the first step
will be to implement a comprehensive corporatization. A recent Presidential
Decree requires that these enterprises be corporatized by November 1, except for
joint ventures and enterprises to be privatized by other means (e.g., sold
intact). For those enterprises that have been corporatized, as a step towards
privatization, significant employee participation will be encouraged under
various alternatives including the distribution of non-voting shares and employee
buy-outs. Upon corporatization, supervisory bodies will be established which
will represent the interests of the owners, will oversee the performance of
enterprise managers, and see that appropriate accounting and auditing procedures
are introduced. Until the completion of privatization, enterprise managers will
be strongly encouraged to strengthen the financial positions of their enterprises
by improving the quality of products and services, increasing operating
efficiency by measures to reduce costs, including adjusting employment levels,
and developing new products and markets. This will be reinforced by holding
managers directly responsible for the performance of their enterprises.
12.         GRI is presently working on a detailed mass privatization scheme for
medium and large enterprises, including the introduction of vouchers. For this
purpose, international advisers have been employed to help design and implement
the programs.   The detailed plan, based on existing legislation for mass
privatization, will be completed in the third quarter of 1992. The first issue
of vouchers will be distributed in the fourth quarter of 1992 and auctions will
start soon thereafter. The vouchers will be valid for a limited time. The use
of vouchers is seen as important in order to ensure fundamental equity, to
strengthen popular support for and participation in privatization, and to
increase the demand for shares. The program will be designed to encourage the
maximum amount of regional and local participation in the process, and to
discourage the issuance of regional vouchers.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
13.         Private investment funds will be permitted to organize.  This will
permit individuals to use their vouchers to invest in a diversified portfolio of
privatized companies, as well as creating owners of substantial blocks of shares
who can take effective responsibility for overseeing the performance of managers.
14.         It is recognized that the process of privatizing large enterprises
is a complex undertaking. Specific privatization proposals will be developed for
a demonstration group of 5 - 10 large enterprises. The demonstration group will
have been identified, and investment advisers appointed, by the end of the year.
It is hoped that at least some of these large state enterprises will have been
privatized by mid-1993.  It is the Government's objective to attract foreign
investors to participate in the privatization of at least some of this
demonstration group.
15.         Government proposes to aevelop and implement a program to improve
asset management and corporate governance in those enterprises that will
temporarily remain in the hands of the state, as well as for the natural monopoly
and social service providers that will likely remain under state control. By
Decembe-: 1992 the Government will formulate a program (including drafting any
neceseary legislation) to address the exercise of ownership, the monitoring and
iy.;n sving of enterprise performance, and the installation and maintenance of
-orporate governance for these enterprises. Different approaches may be required
for enterprises in the process of privatization, and for those remaining in
public hands for the foreseeable future. Implementation of the approach will
begin in selected enterprises in January 1993.
16.         The successful implementation of enterprise reform is dependent on
the establishment of a suitable legal framework. The Government is preparing
revisions of the laws on enterprises, joint stock societies and partnerships, to
reflect the needs of a market economy. In addition, a Presidential Decree on
bankruptcy was issued in June 1992, and will remain in effect until the adoption
of a law on bankruptcy currently under consideration by the Supreme Soviet. The
civil code is to be revised to incorporate modern principles of contract law and
to define the nature and transferability of personal property rights.  It is
expected that it will be presented to the Supreme Soviet before December 31,
1992.
Pro-ComDetition and Anti-Mononolv Policies
17.         Many of the state enterprises inherited from the previous planned
economy are effectively monopolies.   In particular, there are a great many
"regional monopolies" in wholesale and retail trade, transportation, services,
and light industries. In the industrial sector the "Branch Ministry" was a way
of centralizing the administration of industrial production in a particular
subsector, even though multiple enterprises may have been involved. This form
of organization has tended to persist in the form of "concerns" or "associations"
that could easily act as cartels.



- 65 -
ANNEX I
Page 7
18.         The economic reform program will emphasize specific efforts to
promote competition through restructuring existing enterprises and encouraging
new enterprises.   It is not our intention to rely upon ex ante controls on
prices, except where needed as part of the regulatory system for natural
monopolies.    For goods which are traded internationally, the opening of the
Russian economy (in combination with the expected revaluation of the ruble) will
provide an important element of competition. At the very same time, many other
things need to be done to minimize the abuse of monopoly power and to create a
more competitive anvironment, especially in those areas where import competition
cannot be effective.
19.         The program of corporatization of state enterprises will go in
parallel with demonopolization.   As a first step towards demonopolization,
vertically integrated firms can be broken into independent entities. Also, large
existing enterprises will be corporatized at the level of the smallest existing
legal entity.   Those profile restrictions which require firms to continue
particular product lines, and which therefore limit the reallocation of
resources, may be continued for limited periods, but are to be phased out as
rapidly as conditions permit. In addition, it has already been decided that,
when investment companies are organized in connection with the privatization of
medium and large enterprises, these financial institutions will be required to
hold a diversified portfolio rather than potentially restricting competition by
having large holdings in several companies engaged in the same economic
activities. During the third quarter of 1992 the Government will issue an order
requiring the reorganization of "concerns," "associations" and other forms of
organization that might become the basis for cartelization of particular areas
of industrial production. Procurement and marketing will become functions of
independent enterprises rather than be done by a "concern" for a group of
companies producing similar goods.
20.         The State Committee for Antimonopoly Policy and Promotion of New
Economic Structures has basic responsibilities in these areas. However, the
implementation of pro-competition policies involves numerous government entities;
in particular, the privatization program being implemented by GKI can make a
major contribution to our pro-competition objectives. There is a need to more
adequately define our policies in this area.   Consequently,  we intend to
establish by August 1992 a temporary inter-agency working group, including both
the State Committee on Antimonopoly Policy and GKI, which will be responsible for
further developing the approach and mechanisms for the demonopolization of
existing enterprises. By December 31, 1992, the working group is expected to
prepare recommended operational guidelines for demonopolization of medium and
large enterprises and to prepare drafts of needed legislation. To assist this
work it is expected that the working group will (i) draw upon the experience with
the demonstration group of 5-10 large enterprises which are to be privatized and
(ii) carry out "fracturation studies" which will, for a sample of large
enterprises, examine how both vertical and horizontal integration could be
reduced in ways that would contribute to increased competition and efficiency.
During the third quarter of 1992 the working group will prepare and disseminate
guidelines for the implementation of existing anti-monopoly legislation.



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Page a
21.         New enterprises, and new activities by existing enterprises, are an
important source of competition in many areas.  The conversion programs for
companies in the military-industrial complex will offer opportunities to provide
competitors for single-plant monopolies which might otherwise lack domestic
competition. We will also create a more favorable environment for new small
enterprises. A permanent inter-agency working group is being established to help
implement this objective. By September 30, 1992, this working group will prepare
recommendations on measures to promote greater competition, output and employment
through the creation of new small enterprises. These recommendations will cover
legislation and access to finance as well as specific problems of registration
and access to necessary real estate.
Direct Foreign Investment
22.         Direct  foreign  investment  is expected  to make  a  significant
contribution to our economic restructuring. A foreign investment law was adopted
last year; a number of amendments which would strengthen the law have been
submitted to the Supreme Soviet. We are particularly interested in encouraging
direct foreign investment where the foreign partners can contribute expertise
which will make our enterprises more efficient and internationally competitive.
23.         In addition to being encouraged to establish new enterprises, foreign
private investors will be given extensive opportunity to participate in the
process of privatizing medium and large enterprises. The rules and conditions
for foreign investors' participation in this segment of the program will be
simplified. The Government will take the steps necessary to make information on
investment opportunities available to potential foreign investors and to be sure
that legislation on foreign direct investment is clear. The Government intends
to establish a strictly non-discriminatory treatment for foreign investments.
Concerning taxation, the Government will carefully studv the relative treatment
of foreign versus domestic entities and avoid discrimination against the former;
the Government will seek to reach agreements on double taxation with as many
countries as possible. Under the new unified exchange rate, foreign capital will
be able to enter and exit (as repatriation, interest or dividends) at the same
exchange rate as for all other transactions.
Financial Sector Reform
24.         Over the period of transition to a market economy, it will be
necessary to fundamentally reform the financial system.    State-owned
commercial banks can be privatized as these financial institutions and the
financial markets become sufficiently robust. The first steps at financial
sector reform have already been taken, but this is an ambitious program which
will require time to implement. At this time it is important to establish
priorities, identify realistic yet ambitious targets, and assign
responsibilities for implementation.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
25.         An inter-agency group consisting of the relevant agencies under
the Government, the Central Bank, the Supreme Soviet, and representatives of
the banking community, is being established to work on reforms of the
financial sector. The responsibilities of this Working Group on Financial
Sector Reform are to establish an agenda of reforms, to have the details of
such reforms worked out via sub-groups, to formulate recommendations, and to
submit proposals for reforms to the policy making authorities.
26.         The following issues are on the initial agenda of the Working
Group: revision of the financial laws, including the banking act, the
securities act, and the law on collateral security; payments system issues,
including technology, flexibility between cash and check payment,
interrepublican and international payments issues; taxation of financial
transactions, including direct and indirect means of taxation; accounting and
auditing of banks; definition of the appropriate roles for development banks
and for special lending programs for industry, agriculture and housing;
structure of the financial system (number and type of banks, licensing,
branching requirements, etc.); the system of bad debt management and
recapitalization of banks; issues related to privatization of financial
institutions, and training of financial professionals. To support the work of
the Working Group, we shall be requesting the assistance of the IMF and the
World Bank.
27.         The new commercial banking law is being prepared, and will be
submitted to the Supreme Soviet before the end of October 1992. Other
components of the strategy to strengthen the banking sector, including a plan
to liquidate, restructure, or recapitalize banks, and redesign the tax system
for the financial system, are at earlier stages, but the Working Group has
been instructed to present proposals to the Government before the end of this
year. The Government feels that it must address the portfolio problems of the
banks and the need for bank recapitalization. Over the next twelve months we
intend to introduce international standards of accounting, to conduct audits
of at least 15 large banks, and to develop a comprehensive program for dealing
with the issues of bad debt and inadequate bank capitalization. The program
for bank restructuring and recapitalization will be completed and submitted to
the Working Group by June 1993. Work on the securities act and laws on
collateral security are getting under way; draft acts will be submitted to the
Supreme Soviet before the end of the year.
28.         Work on a revised system of accounting and auditing for commercial
banks is well advanced. Banks will be required to implement the new system of
accounts for reporting years ending after January 1, 1993. In addition we plan
to have a new chart of accounts for banks submitted to the Supreme Soviet, no
later than the end of March 1993.
29.         The payments system in Russia was not designed for a market
economy and, as the transformation is progressing, a myriad of problems have
appeared. We feel there must be a comprehensive review of the payments
issues, both with regard to domestic and inter-CIS payments. This study, we



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
believe, can be completed by the end of March 1993 and some of the
recommendations could be put in place by the end of June 1993.
30.         Today the spread between the borrowing and lending interest rates
is high in Russia. The present structure of taxation of financial
intermediaries, the reserve requirements, and operational inefficiencies, all
contribute to the high spreads. One sub-group of the Working Group will be
responsible for analyzing the problem of high spreads and making proposals for
reform by year-end. This will be followed by drafting new legislation on
taxation of financial intermediaries, which will then be submitted to the
Supreme Soviet.
31.         Since market forces are still insufficiently developed to allocate
credits efficiently, we have introduced special credit programs for
agriculture, for basic industries, for conversion of military factories, etc.
Under these programs banks have been directed to make credit available to
designated sectors at low interest rates. On some of these loans the
government budget has had to cover the difference between the rate charged and
the Central Bank's normal financing rate. The program of low interest rate
loans is both costly to the budget and impedes the banking system's ability to
mobilize funds. In line with the Government's program to reduce its direct
control of the economy, it is our intention to delineate a very small number
of priority sectors to receive directed credits at lower than market rates, to
limit the amount of credit in these programs, and to tie the interest rate
charged to the market rate. We will phase out these special programs as early
as deemed feasible.
32.         At present there is a serious shortage of well-trained
professionals in the financial field; this should be remedied as rapidly as
possible. We are working to relieve the problem by upgrading institutions
which train bankers, by sending some professionals abroad for training, by
encouraging joint venture banks and by individual institutions contracting for
assistance with foreign intermediaries. We look to the World Bank and the IMF
for further help in this area.
Social Protection
33.         The process of transition to a market economy will inevitably
involve social costs due to inflation and rising unemployment associated with
the restructuring of production. We will take measures to ensure that the
costs of adjustment do not fall disproportionately on the most vulnerable
members of society, such as children and the elderly, at the same time
providing incentives to facilitate the process of labor force adjustment and
keeping the budgetary costs of the social safety net manageable. To this end,
the costs of our social protection programs will be carefully reviewed, and we
will seek to improve the efficiency of these programs by rationalizing the
structure of benefits, reviewing eligibility criteria so as to improve
targeting, and by placing greater emphasis on programs to ease the



- 69 -
Page 11
transitional costs of unemployment through job training and placement
services.
34.         Central to the design of the social safety net is the definition
of a parsimonious but realistic poverty level that should define the "basic
benefit" for all programs. Regionally differentiated poverty levels are being
fixed by local authorities in accordance with criteria and using methods fixed
by the center. This work is expected to be completed in September. Regular
revisions of the poverty level will be necessary to maintain its value in real
terms. It is our objective fully to defend the poverty level. However, we
recognize that our ability to do so may be constrained by fiscal
considerations during the initial transition period. It is our intention is
to permit erosion of the "basic benefit" only as a last resort and, in
particular, only after programs benefitting those above the poverty line have
been cut back.
35.         The minimum level for the main benefit programs (especially
pensions and unemployment compensation) will be set at or above the "basic
benefit." Benefits in excess of the basic benefit level will be minimized and
carefully targeted through clearly defined criteria. Agreement will be
reached with the local authorities on the relative roles of the local and
federal levels in the financing of cash benefits, although we recognize that
the Federation Government has the ultimate responsibility for protecting the
living standards of all citizens and compensating for the uneven geographic
distribution of the costs of adjustment. For citizens whose eligibility for
other benefits has been exhausted, or whose entitlement is inadequate, we will
introduce a means-tested system of social assistance to provide a benefit of
last resort. By September 30, 1992, we will complete recommendations for the
redesign of the system of cash entitlement programs, including social
assistance, and will expand our administrative capacity to manage the revised
system. Implementation of the main elements of the new system will begin by
the end of 1992, with full implementation by the end of 1993.
36.         It is difficult to project the growth of unemployment resulting
from the restructuring program, although unemployment of the order of 5 to 6
percent of the non-agricultural labor force (i.e. between 3 and 4 million
unemployed) may occur before the end of 1992. The present system for
financing unemployment benefits is inadequate for unemployment on this scale.
To facilitate the process of labor force restructuring by state-owned
enterprises, we will provide supplemental financing from the budget to cover
the cost of unemployment compensation. At the same time, by September 30,
1992, we will complete the design of a proactive system of employment
services, including job search, retraining, and possible participation in
labor-intensive public works as a last resort, together with a system for
financing these services. Implementation of this program will begin by
December 31, 1992. By that date we will have reorganized and begun to re-
equip key employment offices in major industrial centers; the future expansion
of unemployment offices will concentrate on the geographic areas which are
likely to be hardest hit by unemployment.



- 70 -
ANNE 2
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Processingt Events
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare Loan:                Four months
(b)   Staff Members/Consultants Involved
in Loan Preparation:                 J. Holsen - Task Manager
C. Blanchi
H. Jurgen Gruss
E. Nielsen
D. Strombom
R. Westin
(c)   Appraisal Mission:                         March 23 - April 16, 1992
May 11 - 22, 1992
(d)   Negotiations:                              July 14 - 17, 1992
(e)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:             August 31, 1992



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
The Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange
1.    The Moscow Inter-bank Foreign Currency Exchange (MIFCE) was set up on
January 9, 1992 as a closed joint stock company with an authorized capital of
Ruble 248.9 million, including US$1.6 million. It has 34 founding
shareholders: 29 commercial banks, the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), two
financial companies, the Association of Russian Banks, and the Government of
Moscow. Three of the commercial banks are non-Russian (two from Ukraine, one
from Uzbekistan). No more shares are being sold, but membership is open to
any institution with at least one year's experience with a foreign exchange
license (issued by CBR) and with an audited balance sheet. Fifteen banks, all
Russian, have taken advantage of this option. Residents of the FSU who have a
legitimate demand for or supply of foreign exchange (for imports, debt
service, and dividends from joint ventures) may participate in the auction
through a member bank.1L   The member bank is responsible for checking the
above. Prior to the establishment of the MIFCE and since November 1989,
foreign exchange auctions were opkrating out of the USSR State Bank.
2.    Sessions currently take place each Tuesday and Thursday starting at 10
a.m. and lasting 15-20 minutes. Prior to each session, all participants
provide the MIFCE with so-called initial demand and supply of dollars under
the assumption of trade at the fixing rate from the previous auction. At the
opening of the trading session, the accumulated demand and supply of dollars
at the previous session's exchange rate is announced. Should they match,
execution will take place. If they do not match, the exchange rate is moved
by ruble 0.10 in the relevant direction, and members can add/withdraw demand
and supply according to the orders tney have received from customers at
maximum and minimum rates, but which was excluded from the initial demand and
supply. This process goes on until demand equals supply. In general, the CBR
is passive during the session until the gap has been narrowed to an amount the
CBR makes available as an intervention. The MIFCE charges a commission of
0.1X of net trading.
3.    The MIFCE holds three accounts: a ruble account with the CBR and dollar
accounts with Moscow International Bank and International Bank for Economic
Cooperation. All members must have a ruble account with the CBR and a dollar
account with one of the two latteribanks. After each session, the buyers of
dollars will deposit the ruble equivalent into the MIFCE's ruble account with
CBR, and the sellers of dollars are required to deposit the dollar amount into
the MIFCE's dollar account with either Moscow International Bank or
International Bank for Economic Cooperation. The MIFCE thereafter - after
appropriate checks - transfers dollars and rubles from their three accounts to
relevant accounts. The settlement is manual and takes 3 days. The table
below summarizes volumes and average prices at the auctions.
4.    The present manual settlement system puts an effective limit on the
turn-over that the MIFCE can practically handle at this stage. The MIFCE has
developed a computerized netting system. It's introduction awaits political
J/    The eligibility criteria may be changed to include residents of the
ruble zone only.



- 72 -
Page 2
approval and technical training of member banks. It is expected that the
system will be fully implemented in the fall of 1992.  When up and running,
the system should be able to clear all transactions within hours after the
session closes,
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Exchange Rates and the Volume of Trade on the
Foreign Exchange Auction and Inter-Bank Currency Exchange,
November 1989 - July 1992
: Nominal       Dollar
.Exchange       amount
Rate         sold
(Ruble/US$)     (US$ Million)
Nov 1989            8.92         14.30
Dec 1989             NA            NA
Jan 1990           10.27         14.00
Feb 1990          12.32          15.30
Mar 1990             NA            NA
Apr 1990           13.52         16.40
May 1990           15.91         16.70
Jun 1990           20.59         11.60
Jul 1990           24.17         15.30
Aug 1990          24.17          19.90
Sep 1990            NA             NA
Oct 1990          22.88          22.90
Nov 1990           21.24         30.60
Dec 1990           22.88         21.80
Jan 1991           25.26         42.80
Feb 1991           34.32         33.80
Mar 1991           36.08          4.80
Apr 1991           34.42         30.07
May 1991           38.10         16.93
Jun 1991          40.55          28.57
Jul 1991           52.40         16.18
Aug 1991           51.98         21.01
Sep 1991          55.05          22.11
Oct 1991           63.70         22.38
Nov 1991          106.S6         28.10
Dec 1991         169.73          15.97
Jan 1992          197.53         18.38
Feb 1992         185.88          33.25
Mar 1992          152.26         98.90
Apr 1992          153.55         46.93
May 1992          123.37        100.32
Jun 1992          125.99        308.92
Jul 1992 a/       131.45        105.74
-- -- - _    _- -- -- -. - _- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
Sources: State Bank of the USSR and Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency
Exchange.
Notes:   When there is more than one auction in a month, the exchange rate
shown is an unweighted arithmetic average of rates during that month.
a/   For July 1-14, 1992.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATION LOAN
GOODS ELIGIBLE FOR BANK DISBURSEMENTS UNDER
MIFCE AND PIC COMPONENTS
A -  MIFCE COMPONENT (NEGATIVE LIST).
1.          No withdrawal from the loan account shall be made in respect
of
(i)   Expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract which
a national or international financing institution or any other
financing agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(ii) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(iii) expenditures for items in the following groups or sub-groups
of  the  United  Nations   Standard  International  Trade
Classification, Revision 3:
Grout       Sub-group          Description
112                            Alcoholic beverages
121                            Tobacco,   unmanufactured,   tobacco
refuse
122                            Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                            Radioactive and associated materials
667                            Pearls,  precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
718         718.1              Nuclear reactors and parts thereof,
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated for nuclear reactors
728         728.43             Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971                            Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding gold
ores and concentrates.
2.          It  is  expectea  that  the MIFCE  component will  be  used
exclusively for the import of goods procured by competitive enterprises in
the commercial sector. It is assumed that these enterprises will follow
normal commercial procurement practices. For all contracts below US $ 5
million, the World Bank will not require prior approval of documentation
regarding the procurement methods followed. Above the threshold of US $
5 million, each procurement will require the prior approval of the Bank to
be sure that it is being done in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Procurement will be done directly by the importers and will follow the
laws of the country.
B - PRE-IDENTIPIED COMPONENT (POSITIVE LIST).
3.          Disbursements under the Pre-Identified Component (PIC) will be
made for imports out of a positive lists of goods to be agreed between the
Borrower and the World Bank. The positive lists will include goods to be
utilized for the maintenance of essential activities in the following
sectors of the economy:
-     Health
-     Agriculture
-     Transport
-     Coal
and other sectors as the Borrower and the Bank may mutually agree.
4.          The goods on the positive lists will be selected by mutual
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the basis of their economic
priority. The lists may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement,
provided the following criteria are applied:
(i)   Goods will be procured by public sector agencies for the
maintenance of economic activities in key sectors of a
public service nature (for iiLstance, spare parts or
pieces of equipment for the maintenance of essential
services, raw materials or intermediate goods for the
production of essential goods such as medicines, and
finished pharmaceuticals).
(ii) The fact that goods are priority imports will be
established by a decision to allocate sufficient
budgetary resources to finance their cost at the market
exchange rate applicable at the time of importation.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(iii) Speed of procurement is an essential factor in the
proposed operation. The followi.Lg additional criteria
for the selection of critical imports will therefore be
used: (a) goods of a commodity nature, which can be
described easily without long or complex technical
specifications, and which can be procured from several
sources under large contracts, will simplify the task;
and (b) goods which are not available off-the-shelf will
take longer to procure than goods immediately available.
5.          The rate of exchange to be used for the transactions will be
the unified exchange rate; any subsidies to the final user will be covered
through explicit budgetary allocations.   The World Bank agrees that there
is no need to have the full budgetary allocation ex-ante.
6.          The purpose of pre-identification is not to centrally allocate
resources, but to speed up the process of procurement and arrival of the
goods for the agreed priorities. The list of priorities is therefore not
a closed one. Government can identify priorities exceeding the value of
the loan, and decide during implementation, with World Bank concurrence,
which to choose for the purpose of disbursing the loan.
7.          To be eligible for disbursement under the loan, all pre-
identified critical imports will have to be procured in accordance with
standard Bank procurement procedures as described in Operational Directive
11.00 and with the Bank's prior approval.   Procurement of pesticides,
herbicides and other hazardous materials in the context of the PIC must
conform to paragraphs 119 to 121 of the Bank's Operational Directive
11.00.   Procurement of imports for the coal sector will not be permitted
until all Environment Assessments are completed to the satisfaction of the
Bank.



'BBS 24004
.,i---d~                                                 ~                                         ~                                        _  ,;.+5   .  U.S.A.
mc 0p hos bee' peoo.e 0, TOo 100,0 00feet eOeod, CJeh -.-
h,,'0.00,,enonroef,.cesonooh,1 hcM,Ihe.b, eoe of
blolzleeshoe-wo~gh.pdO,o'u;.pf, etOpWhPto'so$The                                        *p  .!I         tO t ,                                                            ,0 -Er   ;
Na                                                         -s-'1 &>< t8d5*_''                                                                          u- o                          s       V 
- NeTB                         Nouewh <          e          ufi),-of1  ,  e
RI?jQAM                                                                 -- S-                                                                             Lostf                   S
st-,o~~~~  t'- ~Vt
NORWIAY                                        8 BO-OT
f       UK  NE             I         a~2_(th.i- N-rgorc                                    .qd ,_                                                                J        c 
,N                     \  2 g- % $R U                                       I A N    F E  ) E R WT J    N
X jO0Od~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ibiqk 26 nvhOrV
FINLAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN                                                                                            AA
NIAf AENA (e P 0                         An        K A Z A K H S T A N           \    _      '        -                                                      CHN
0  t ~    ~ ~       Wo
UKSNE             P        .  \i iNo          ~                        I       N           FW                     N          1        ONGOUARUSSIAN    FEDERATION
IRAQ    /   8   t1   6   Cg    \  .    ,           s               j                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<,/ TURKMENIISTAN  ( .<   NATIONAL C-APITAL                                                                                                              KILOMETERS-     s    oo
ISLAMIC   REP   OF   IRAN \_ \-E-                                                   CHINA .or                                        SELECTED CITIES                   MILUS    0 rk
_  '  +      \      s_;KYRGHYffl                                                _     _     _ f          _   RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVERSJUE19
ONINA   ~~~~~~~~'a ~       JAPANE19



