Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20282-MOR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 43400-1)
April 27, 2000
Private and Financial Sectors Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of December 1999
Currency Unit   =  Dirham (DH)
DH 1.00          =  US$0.0997
US$1.00          =  DH10.031
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAM       Bank Al-Maghrib (Central Bank)
AfDB      African Development Bank
BNDE    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (National Bank for Economic
Development)
BSF       Bons des Societes Financieres (Finance Company Debentures)
CD        Certificat de Dep6t (Certificate of Deposit)
CDG       Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion (Deposit and Management Fund)
CDPQ      Caisse de Dep6t et Placement du Quebec (Quebec Deposit and Investment Fund)
CDVM      Conseil Deontologique des Valeurs Mobilieres (Securities Ethics Council)
CEN       Caisse d 'Epargne Nationale (National Savings Fund)
CIH       Credit Immobilier et H6telier (a real estate and hotel lending facility)
CIMR      Caisse Interprofessionnelle Marocaine de Retraites (a pension fund)
CMR       Caisse Marocaine des Retraites (a pension fund)
CNSS      Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale (National Social .Security Fund)
CSEA      Comite de Suivi des Etudes Actuarielles (Actuarial Studies Monitoring Committee)
DAPS      Direction des Assurances et de la Prevoyance Sociale (Social Protection and Insurance
(Department inside the Ministry of Finance)
DH        Moroccan Dirham (Currency)
CS        Contractual Savings
FCP       Fonds Commun de Placement (Money-Market Mutual Fund)
FEC       Fonds d'Equipement Communal (local government infrastructure fund)
IMF       International Monetary Fund
FMSA      Federation Marocaine des Societes d'Assurance (Moroccan Insurance Association)
IFS       Institutionsfinancieres specialis&es (specialized financial institutions)
OCP       Office Cherifien des Phosphates (Moroccan Phosphates Office)
ODEP      Office d'Exploitation des Ports (Port Authority)
ONE'    Office National d'Electricite (National Electricity Authority)
ONPT      Office National des Postes et T1elcommunications (National Posts and Telecommunications Office)
OPCVM   Organismes de Placement Collectifde Valeurs Mobilieres (mutual fund institutions)
PEP       Plancher d 'Effets Publics (Mandatory Treasury Placements)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
RCAR      Regime Collectifd 'Allocation de Retraite (a pension fund)
SBVC      Societe des Bourses de Valeurs de Casablanca (Casablanca Securities Exchange)
TCN       Titres de Creance Negociables (Negotiable Debt Instruments or Securities)
MOROCCO FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
Vice President             Kemal Dervis
Group Manager:             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Wafik Grais
Task Manager:              Lorenzo Savorelli



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 43400-1)
1. PROJECT DATA ................................................................                                                                         1
2.  PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS  ................................................................ 1
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY ...............2
3.1  Original Objective ...............................................................                                                         2
3.2  Original Components ...............................................................                                                        2
3.3  Quality  at Entry ...............................................................                                                          2
4.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND  OUTPUTS ................................................................                                              3
4.1  Outcome/Achievement of Objectives ................................................................                                         3
4.2  Output by  components ...............................................................                                                      6
4.3  Institutional Development Impact ...............................................................                                           9
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME . ...................................... 9
5.1  Factors beyond  the Borrower's control ...............................................................                                     9
5.2  Factors within  the Borrower's control ...............................................................                                  10
6. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORMS ...............................................................                                                       10
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                                                        11
7.1  Overall Bank Performance ...............................................................                                                 11
7.2  Borrower's Overall Performance ...............................................................                                           12
8. LESSONS LEARNED ................                                                                                                                     12
9. PARTNER COMMENTS ................                                                                                                                    13
ANNEXES: Statistical Tables
Annex 1:  Table 1 Monitoring Indicators
Table 2 Amount of Reserves (in billion DH)
Table 3 Securities Market
Table 4 Capital Market Issues/Listings, 1995-1998
Table 5 New Company Listings on the Casablanca Stock Exchange in 1998 and 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaion.



ii
Table 6 Amount of Transfers from the Insurance Solidarity Fund to
Liquidated Insurance Companies as of
November 1999 (in million DH)
Table 7 Liquidated Insurance Companies - Assets Sold (in million DH)
Annex 2:  Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3:  Bank Inputs
Annex 4:  Rating for Achievement of Objectives
Annex 5:  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1. PROJECT DATA
Project identifier: P047582                             Project Name: Contractual Savings
Development Loan
Team leader: Lorenzo Savorelll                         Department. MNSPF
Type of completion report: Core ICR                     Date of report: 30 November 1999
Name: Contractual Savings Development Loan
Loan Number: 43400; 43401
Country: Morocco
Region: North Africa and Middle East
Sector: Other financial
KEY DATES
Original          Actual
PCD.            08 May 97                Effectiveness:                           06/24/98
Appraisal:      28 August 97             MTR.
Approval:       9 June 98                Closing:               12/31/98          12/31/98
Borrower:                       Govemment of Morocco, Ministry of Finance
STAFF                                     CURRENT            AT APPRAISAL
Vice President:                           Kemal Dervi,       Kemal Dervi,
Regional Manager:                         Christian Delvoie   Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                           Wafik Grais        Nemat Shafik
Team Leader:                              Lorenzo Savorelli  Lorenzo Savorelli2
ICR Author:                               Leila El Hafi
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome:                                    Satisfactory
Sustainability:                             Likely
Institutional Development Impact:           Satisfactory
Bank Performance:                           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Modest
QAG (if available)          ICR
Quality at Entry:                      Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Program at risk at any time:           No                    No
Mr. Denis Chaput was Tearn Leader between September 1997 and January 1999, i.e. during negotiations, Board submission,
and supervision.



2
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1    Original Objective
The principal objective of the loan was to promote greater efficiency in mobilizing savings and in
channeling them into private investment by reforming the country's contractual savings institutions --
the insurance companies, savings banks and the pension system. This objective was based on the
premise that two important elements were required to put Morocco on a stronger growth path: a
higher level of contractual savings, implying greater availability of long-term resources, and better
allocation of these resources.
The objective was and remains relevant and clear. It was established in light of the conclusions of
the Country Assistance Strategy, which pointed to the low level of contractual savings and the
inadequate supply of long-term resources as factors increasing the cost of capital and consequently
undermining the competitiveness of the economy. The reform of the pension system and insurance
companies was also aimed at overcoming other difficulties: the weakness of the insurance sector and
the plethora of non-transparent pension funds of doubtful viability. This objective was neither
unrealistic nor too ambitious for the Borrower, given the context at the time, where the Government
had decided to reinforce the regulatory and institutional framework of the financial sector.
3.2    Original Components
The proposed measures were aimed at improving the mobilization of savings by reforming the
institutional savings system in the following ways: (a) completing the financial restructuring of the
insurance sector, and improving its solidity and image; (b) improving the efficiency, transparency
and financial viability of the existing pension system, and developing supplementary capitalized
pension funds; (c) promoting the role of CDG from deposit taker to fund manager, through
mechanisms for collecting, administering and allocating the financial resources of the pension
system and savings banks; and (d) strengthening capital market infrastructure and expanding the
range of instruments available to institutional investors.
As things stand, for lack of viable alternatives, most of the funds collected by insurance companies
and pension funds are placed in Treasury bonds or in securities issued by financial institutions. The
virtual absence of private, non-financial issuers in effect makes it very difficult to reallocate these
long-term resources into productive investments in the economy. The loan program therefore
stressed the regulatory environment rather than specific efforts to encourage the issuance of
securities by the private non-financial sector.
3.3    Quality at Entry
The quality of this program at entry was satisfactory. The objectives established in the program were
consistent with the CAS and enjoyed government support. The program's design was considered
realistic in calling for a series of concrete steps, prior to submission to the Bank's Board, that would
confirm the Borrower's commitment to action over the medium term. The Bank had referred in its
Report to the President to the risk surrounding the Borrower's commitment to carry out the pension
reform. This commitment seemed in fact weakened with the change of Government. On the other
hand, the recent context shows a renewal of interest on the part of the Governmnent, and a willingness
to speed up the pace of reform.
After conducting an assessment of project quality at entry, the Quality Assurance Group concluded
that the loan was satisfactorily prepared: it was properly targeted on improving the regulatory and
institutional setting for promoting contractual savings, and in particular long-term savings. The loan
was well designed, according to the QAG, as the first in a series of operations that over the long run



3
would contribute significantly to improving the functioning of financial markets, the pension systems
and the insurance sector, and to the development of new financial instruments. The program was a
complex one, however, and in the opinion of the QAG raised questions as to the Bank's regional
capacity to pursue further operations, as well as the Borrower's readiness to continue with the present
one.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1    Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
The achievement of program objectives was judged satisfactory. This judgment flows from an
assessment focused on two concerns. The first was the degree of implementation of the policy
measures agreed between the Bank and the Borrower and the institutional reforms that were
undertaken; the second was the relevance of these reforms in attaining program objectives.
All policy measures associated with the program, which were prerequisites for submission of the
loan to the Board for its approval, were carried out. While the loan was a single tranche operation, it
called for medium- and long-term measures. The record on these measures, in particular those
relating to pension reform and the legislative and regulatory framework, wasalmost completed at the
date this ICR was prepared, i.e. 18 months after signature of the loan. The major institutional impact
involved CDG and its transformation from a deposit taker into an active funds manager, a significant
accomplishment for the program. The creation of OPVCMs to manage CEN and CNSS funds and
the indexing of yields on these funds to market rates, among other measures, represented important
progress, and a highly positive cultural shift. The first level of appraisal is therefore considered
satisfactory.
The second focus of concern, assessment of the relevance of actions proposed under the program as
the means of attaining the objectives in view, can be judged on the basis of performnance indicators.
The positive flows generated by the technical reserves of insurance companies and pension funds are
a sign of improvement in both the mobilization and allocation of savings (See Annex 1).
Rationalization of the insurance companies, and the enhanced transparency of the pension funds (the
result of better understanding of their workings), were essential factors in strengthening their
reserves. However, a competitive market for financial instruments has been slow to emerge. Non-
financial agents are little given to issuing bonds or securities to meet their financing needs. A bond
issue would require unaccustomed transparency on the part of such firms, for which bank loans are
an attractive alternative, especially at a time of falling interest rates. The issuing of securities thus
remains the preserve of the banks and finance companies. In any event, reform of the pension
system is a goal that requires a long-term approach, and it is difficult at this time to judge how
relevant the reforms proposed will prove, given the lack of an action plan (although one is expected
very shortly). Achievement of this objective has been only partial so far, and any further advance
depends on subsequent action by both the Borrower and the Bank. The means decided on for
achieving these objectives are clearly important, but may be found insufficient as far as development
of a competitive securities market is concerned.



4
Table 1: Indicators
Monitoring period
Estimated  Actual Estimated  Actual  Estimated
1997     1997     1998      1998      1999
Performance Indicators
Flow of contractual savings (CS)IGDP           2.5      2.9      3.0       3.1       3.5
Treasury fmnancing from CS/flow of CS         50.0      93.5     46.0      49.4     45.0
Equities & securities issues/net flow of bank credit   44.0  59.2  45.0    40.3     46.0
Assumptions/Preconditions for success 3
Government deficit/GDP                         4.1      3.2      2.9       2.3       2.0
Recurrent expenditure/Total expenditure       85.0      83.3     81.9      83.1     80.9
For the most part, these indicators were satisfactory:
Ratio of contractual savings flow/GDP: The target set for this ratio was more than met in 1997
and 1998. Net accumulation of technical reserves by insurance companies and pension funds was
DH 9.1 billion in 1997 and DH 10.4 billion in 1998. The positive trend of flows in 1997 and
1998 (see Table 2, Annex 1) is explained essentially by the following:
(a)    Insurance companies accumulated additional technical reserves of DH 4 billion over two
successive years (1996/97 and 1997/98), as a result of rationalization efforts targeting the
insurance industry, which saw new technical reserve rules introduced to cover its liabilities.
(b)    RCAR/CNRA increased its reserves by DH 1.7 billion in 1997 and DH 2.06 billion in 1998,
thanks to the growing ranks of its members and the consequent increase in its statutory and
technical provisions.
(c)    CMR contributed DH  1.98 billion to the change in reserves recorded for 1998. Until
November 1996, CMR was an entity forming part of the Ministry of Finance. Since then, it
has developed as a public autonomous entity that manages its own funds.
(d)    CNSS contributed some DH 1 billion to the change in reserve flows in 1997, and slightly
less in 1998 (DH 0.97 billion). It must be noted, however, that for the third year running
CNSS has failed to make any payment to CDG, although the loan program called for CNSS
to transfer all its new deposits to the OPCVM "CDG-Secur," plus 10% of its stock of
existing deposits with CDG. The increase in CNSS assets is thus due entirely to capitalized
interest on its existing deposits.
(e)    The slowdown noted in the case of CNSS can also be seen in the case of CEN, which helped
to increase reserves to DH 0.26 billion in 1998, compared to DH 0.80 billion in 1997.
(f)    The deceleration was also noted in the case of internal pension schemes flows (DH 0.46
billion in 1998 versus 1.21 billion in 1997).
3 Macro-economic data are running from June 1997 to June 1998 for 1997, and June 1998 to June 1999 for 1998.



5
•  Ratio of Treasury financing from  contractual savings/flow of contractual savings: Treasury
financing from contractual savings almost met the objective in 1998. The trend of the ratio is
favorable, to the extent that the Treasury seems to have taken a lower proportion of contractual
savings proceeds, with a figure of 93.5 percent in 1997 and 49.4 percent in 1998. Treasury bill
purchases by insurance companies, social security agencies and CDG in fact declined from 1997
to 1998, dropping from DH 9.2 billion to DH 6.1 billion. At the same time, attention should be
drawn to the growing role of the OPCVMs as purchasers of Treasury bills4. This suggests that a
portion of the funds that CDG, insurance companies and social security agencies traditionally
placed in Treasury bills is now being invested indirectly through the OPCVMs.
*  Ratio of equities and securities issues/net flow of bank credit The ratio stood at 59.2 percent in
1997 and 40.3 percent in 1998, compared to estimates of 44 and 45 percent, respectively. The
ratio for 1997 can be explained, first, by a relatively modest change in bank credit between 1996
and 1997 (6.7 percent) which helped to produce a higher ratio for 1997. The net increase in bank
credit that represented DH 16.5 billion in 1998 against DH 9.5 billion in 1997 was greater in
1998 (+10.8 percent). Therefore the ratio only stood at 40 percent in 1998, also because the
numerator of this ratio had a lesser increase (+DH 1 billion), with securities issues - composed of
negotiable debt instruments5 (TCNs), bonds and equities amounting to DH 6.6 billion in 1998.
Securities issues continued to be dominated in 1998 by financial institutions and companies
(Credor, CIH, FEC, BNDE, Taslif). Negotiable debt instruments are, by their nature, issued
mainly by credit institutions, finance companies and, to a lesser extent, real estate companies.
Tlhe volume of TCNs issued in 1998 amounts to DH 4.2 billion, compared with DH 3.3 billion
the preceding year. Equity issues amounted to DH 687 million in 1998, compared to 1.3 billion
the preceding year. There were only four such transactions in 1998, the largest being a share
issue by CIH with a value of DH 551 million. This performance is inadequate, given the scope
and diversification of opportunities that investors are seeking. The difficulties facing investors
are all the greater, given the prudential rules imposed on reserve management. In the case of the
mutual funds managed by CD2G (a subsidiary of CDG), on behalf of CEN and CNSS, for
example, portfolio equity risk exposure must not exceed 10 percent of net assets. This means
that 90 percent is held in interest-bearing securities (and about 10 percent in cash or stocks). Not
only is the supply of negotiable debt instruments inadequate, but they pose problems of
transparency, given the lack of ratings (in the case of consumer credit companies, for example),
and their pricing sometimes defies logic. The resulting liquidity problem does little to encourage
a dynamic secondary market.
* Macroeconomic assumptions (See Table 1)
The macroeconomic conditions required for the success of the program are satisfactory. The
budget deficit turned out to be lower than the 4.1 percent of GDP estimated for FY 1998 (June
1997-June 1998). In fact, it came in at 3.2 percent of GDP for FY 1998 and 2.3 percent of GDP
for FY 1999 (June 1998-June 1999). The ratio of recurrent expenditure to total expenditure
amounted to 83.3 percent and 83.1 percent for FY 1998 and 1999. These healthy figures reflect
higher-than-expected revenues for FY 1999, attributable to both the good performance of direct
taxes and the paying down of arrears. Expenditure was also satisfactorily contained, in terms not
only of goods and services and staffing levels but also of interest on the public debt and
4   OPCVMs and brokerage firms hold DH 9.7 billion in T-bills sold at auction, compared to holdings of zero on December 31,
1996. T-bill purchases at auction by OPCVMs and brokerage firms amounted to DH 3.7 billion in 1998, against DH I billion in
1997.
5   A negotiable debt instrument (titre de creance negociable) is known as a certificate of deposit if it is issued by a bank, as a
finance company debenture if issued by a finance company, and as commercial paper if issued by a non-financial company.
Regulations require negotiable debt instruments to be issued in unit amounts and for a fixed term.



6
compensation. GDP for the year 1999 is weak. The growth rate is negative and attains -0.1
percent, primarily as a result of the cyclical drought that afflicted the agriculture sector in 1999.
4.2    Output by components
Project components that were to be completed or begun prior to the Board Presentation were handled on the
whole satisfactorily, in particular with regard to the following points:
INSURANCE
Liberalization, modernization and restructuring of the insurance industry:
* Introduction of solvency monitoring criteria for insurance companies. The public instruction issued by the
Ministry of Finance on March 29, 1996, and in force since January 1997, introduced these criteria and provided
for their enforcement.
* First settlement of outstanding claims against liquidated insurance companies. The first payment before
submission of the loan to the Board (DH 300 million) was formalized by funding commnitment approved by
decision of the Ministry of Finance.
* Liberalization of insurance prerniums. The Convention between the Minister of Finance and representatives of
the insurance industry setting the principle, procedures and schedule for liberalizing insurance premiums in the
year 2000 was approved and signed in December 1997.
* Privatization of the state-controlled insurance company, CNIA. The company was privatized by Decree of the
Prime Minister signed July 17, 1997.
* Restructuring of the public transport insurance company (CAT). The Convention between the Minister of
Finance and representatives of the insurance industry was signed in December 1997.
* Article 9 of the 1997/98 Finance Act increased the tax-exempt annual ceiling on life insurance premiums, with a
view to making life insurance more attractive and enhancing its role in mobilizing long-term savings.
PENSION REFORM
Creation of conditions favorable to a medium-term reform program:
* A monitoring comnmittee (Comite de Suivi) responsible for assessing pension systems was created, complete with
terms of reference, in October 1997.
* The terms of reference for the actuarial studies and financial audits of Morocco's pension schemes, prepared by the
DAPS (Ministry of Finance), were provided to the Bank before submission to the Executive Board.
* Independent management of reserves of CMR was formalized by Order of the Minister of Finance on August 5,
1997.
* Launching of actuarial studies of all the pension schemes, and financial audits of the four pension funds (CNSS,
CMR, CIMR, RCAR) has been satisfactory, and the Bank has received the consulting contracts signed as well as
the calls for tender issued in the case of the supplementary actuarial studies and the financial audits of the pension
funds named above.
CAISSE D'EPARGNE - CDG
Promotion of CDG as an active funds manager:
An OPCVM known as FCP CDG-SECUR was created with CNSS funds deposited with CDG. It was approved by
the Minister of Finance in July 1997. The information note and the fact sheet were confirmed by the Securities
Ethics Council (CDVM) on November 19, 1997.
+ The transfer to the OPCVM of 10 percent of the stock of CNSS deposits and of all its new deposits was not
effected within the planned time limits. The stock under management at the end of 1998 amounted to only DH 525
million, whereas it should have been DH 1.3 billion. The objective was finally achieved in November 1999. The
delay was explained by the lack of investment opportunities: opportunities to invest in diversified interest-bearing
securities are scarce. Apart from T-bills, private sector securities issues are almost non-existent, while negotiable
debt instruments, with the exception of a few finance company bonds (BSF), certificates of deposit (CD), and some
commercial paper, continue to fall short of demand.
* The OPCVM based on CEN funds deposited with CDG was late in becoming operational. In fact, FCP CDG-Barid



.7
reached agreement with the Ministry of Finance in December 1997. The delay was due primarily to uncertainty
within CEN about its investment powers, following restructuring of ONPT and implementation of CEN's new
articles of incorporation, which have it functioning as a dependent division of Barid Al Maghrib without legal or
financial autonomy. A decision of the Ministry of Privatization after consultation with the Ministry of Finance in
late November 1998 finally led CEN to subscribe. As a result, the project objective of transferring 50 percent of
new CEN deposits, and 10 percent of the outstanding stock of CEN deposits, to this OPCVM was met only at the
end of 1999, rather than 1998 (assets of the OPCVM: DH 530 million).
* Setting of remuneration rates on CDG deposits by the authorities has been eliminated. The rate is now indexed to
the 5-year Treasury bond auction rate less 1.25%, for both CNSS and CEN deposits (since January 1997 and
January 1998, respectively).
FINANCIAL MARKETS
Improvement of the legal and regulatory structure:
* Creation of a Working Conumittee to help develop a legal and regulatory frarnework, by:
- Writing draft legislation/regulations to govern portfolio management and custody of securities on behalf of third
parties (including approval of portfolio management companies);
- Writing draft legislation/regulations goveming the creation of money-market mutual funds, with emphasis on
investment rules for OPCVMs in the TCN market
Presentation to the Council of Govermment of legislation goveming securitization and mortgage market.
On the other hand, a new Insurance Code, satisfactory to the Bank, has yet to be adopted. A draft Code was
reviewed by the Bank during the loan negotiations, and the Bank had recommended certain changes,
particularly to Article 201, which prohibited foreigners from holding a majority interest in the capital of
Moroccan insurance companies. As it turns out:
-      The Draft Code initially adopted by the Council of Govemment retained this article
prohibiting majority ownership by foreign capital in Moroccan insurance companies. The
Bank received a letter indicating adoption of the draft Code, but the Code itself was never
forwarded;
-      Subsequently, the draft Code was rejected by the Council of Ministers and went through a
series of revisions, at the end of which it was no longer a Code but a more modern and
comprehensive Insurance Law covering the various branches of the industry, but excluding
mutual companies as well as the measures relating to the Fonds de Garantie. This draft
Insurance Law retains the article prohibiting majority foreign ownership in Moroccan
insurance companies. It was adopted by the Council of Government on December 2, 1999,
but the Council of Ministers has not yet issued its final decision on the matter.
The planned medium-term components have either been put into effect late or postponed:
MEDIUM TERM COMPONENTS                                    STATUS
INSURANCE                                    Settlement of the claims on the liquidated insurance
companies is not completed. The total cost of claims was
* Complete the settlement of claims on liquidated  estimated at DH 3.57 billion, to be covered by a budgeted
insurance companies.                       State contribution of DH 2.55 billion and DH 1.02 billion in
proceeds from asset sales. An amount of DH 992 million was
paid out by the Solidarity Fund as of November 1999, out of
an available total of DR 1.047. The total of settlements by end
1999 was to have been an estimated DH 2.189 billion. DH
253,74 million should be paid out in the first semester of
2000. According to the Borrower, this slow progress reflects
claims still before the courts, on which rulings have not been



8
MEDIUM TERM COMPONENTS                                    STATUS
issued and on wvhich payment is therefore impossible.
* Complete the liberalization of all insurance  The Convention signed between FMSA and the Ministry of
premiums according to the schedule agreed in the  Finance  called  for liberalization  of all automobile
Convention between the Ministry of Finance and  premiums (and automobile civil liability premiums in
the industry.                               particular) by the year 2001, with a possible delay of one year
in liberalizing premiums for public passenger transit.
Automobile premiums have been raised twice, in January
1998 and July 1999. In other areas, premiums are generally
government-regulated  but  liberalization  requires  that
insurance companies have the proper tools to be able to set
their benchmark rates.
Although a reassessment of the Solidarity Fund was planned,
* Re-examine the role of the Solidarity Fund with  its role is unlikely to be changed in the near future. The
a view to restructuring it and redefining its role  current mechanism of compulsory contributions by insurance
in the insurance sector.                    companies provides funds that are proving very useful for
settling the accounts of the liquidated companies. The
mechanism will not be reviewed, according to DAPS, until
premium liberalization is completed.
REFORM OF PENSION SCHEMES
* Complete actuarial studies, financial audits and a  The actuarial studies and financial audits were expected to be
detailed report with an estimate of the financial completed by late December 1998. By the end of 1999,
implications of various reform scenarios, leading  however, most had not been, because of divergences from the
to pragmatic and workable reform proposals.  terms of reference set down by CSEA. Most of the pension
schemes have finalized their financial audits. However, the
audits have been performed on more or less recent financial
statements. CNSS for example has only provided financial
audits based on 1994 and 1995 financial statements.
The detailed report that was to be based on the actuarial
studies was to include an estimate of the financial implications
of various reform scenarios, and to lead to pragmatic and
workable reform proposals. This consolidated report has never
been drafted, because not all the actuarial studies have been
completed. The Department of Insurance would like to get on
with it, despite the delay in delivery of the major phases of the
CMR study and although some of the information components
called for in the termis of reference are still missing for each of
the pension entities. A consulting firm has been selected to
help CSEA to draft this consolidated report, using the
Japanese grant.6.
* Prepare, under Ministry of Finance oversight, a  Under way
reform program and action plan based on the
results of the actuarial studies and financial
audits.
* Prepare and launch a promotional campaign to
sensitize the Moroccan public to the problems of Not done
efficiency and viability not uncommon among
6 An amount of US$600,000, provided by Japan for preparation of the second contractual savings development loan



9
MEDIUM TERM COMPONENTS                                   STATUS
existing pension schemes.
* Prepare an appropriate framework for developing
and capitalizing supplementary pension schemes, Not done
using the findings of sector studies as the
framework design.
CAISSES DIEPARGNE-CDG                        The results of the sale of CDG assets in the hotel sector were
disappointing. Apart from Hotel Dunes d'or, which was put
* Sale of CDG assets in the hotel sector    up for sale by the Ministry of Privatization, other attempted
sales failed and the Ministry has returned the responsibility for
managing its hotels and finding buyers for its holdings to
CDG.
FINANCIAL MARKETS                            The draft law on securitization was published on the
Official Bulletin in September 1999.
* Adoption by the Council of Government of:
The law on money-market OPCVMs was submitted to the
- legislation on portfolio management for third   Secretary General but implementing regulations are still
parties;                                awaited, although they were being finalized by CDVM at the
- legislation governing money market mutual    end of October 1999.
funds;
- legislation/regulations on approval of portfolio  The law on third-party asset management is still at the draft
-mesanagement and investment approvaiofspory fo  stage and will be submitted to the asset managers profession
management and investment advisory      to get their opinion.
companies.
4.3    Institutional Development Impact
The main institutional impact of the program was to promote the role of CDG from a deposit taker
into an active funds manager. Under the terms of the Japanese grant, and as part of its cooperation
with CDPQ, CDG is now going through a strategic re-focusing. The effect of this plan will be to
reinforce its management capabilities, on one hand by upgrading its human resources through
suitable training and revised job descriptions, and on the other by reorganizing its activities and
bringing its information systems up to date. CDG will then be equipped to become more active in
the capital market, where it will contribute to the liquidity not only of the stock exchange market but
also the markets for bonds and other interest-paying securities. It also expects to strengthen its role
as an investor by committing its own funds in support of projects initiated by private enterprise.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
5.1    Factors beyond the Borrower's control
The delays and performance shortcomings noted in the program were attributable, in the case of the
actuarial studies and financial audits, to the pension schemes themselves and their consultants, and
were not the direct responsibility of the Borrower.
The new Govermment had also inherited a program that had been negotiated with its predecessor.
The Bank feels that the medium and long tern objectives have been affected by the change of the



10
governmental team which was present during the negotiations if one considers the significant delays
or slowdown in: a) the implementation of essential measures b) the adoption of legislation (see
Insurance Code), and c) the opening and liberalization of the insurance sector upon which the
negotiating governmental team had committed.
5.2    Factors within the Borrower's control
Although significant, the delay in delivering the actuarial studies and financial audits was never
alluded to in CSEA reports. CSEA limited itself to accepting and analyzing the documents supplied,
but it never took upon itself to investigate the problems, speed up the pace of work, or take other
steps.
6. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORMS
That is, sustainability of the reforms that affected the insurance industry, pension schemes, and the
shifting status of CDG. Sustainability must be assessed as likely for the reforms as a whole, given
the great amount of work and investment that have been dedicated to the preparation of pension
system reform. Sustainability could have been judged highly likely, had not there been any
remaining uncertainties on the future implementation of these reforms once the action plan is
adopted. Reforms of this type are generally controversial, often costly, and demand steady political
support and perseverance.
Sustainabiity of the reforms in the insurance sector should be assured since the rationalization of
the insurance companies and the liberalization of what are now regulated premiums, particularly in
the automobile sector have been initiated and are ongoing. In the past, the financial health of
insurance companies was undermined by money-losing sectors like automobile insurance, but also
by management shortcomings. Preventing companies from failing, and anticipating the financial
problems facing businesses in the sector, will be one of the roles of the insurance supervision
agency. A study aimed at defining this structure and its functioning, to be funded from the Japanese
grant, will eventually result in creation of a body of insurance supervisors responsible for enforcing
the rules.
Sustainabiity of reforms in the role of CDG: The thrust of the program was to promote the role of
CDG from that of a deposit taker to that of an active funds manager. It was also important that it
should see itself more as a partner, involving its depositors more actively. The management
committees now in place under this program have been designed specifically to involve depositors
more closely, in particular CNSS and CEN. CDG sends regular reports to its depositors dealing with
changes in asset value, portfolio composition, and other important parameters (terms, sensitivity,
etc.). CDG hopes to attract other resources, while retaining the loyalty of its current depositors, and
to win new depositors by upgrading its management and organization (introducing third-party funds
management, creating account manager positions, etc.). CDG resources in the form of deposits rose
from DH 20 billion to DH 27.3 billion between 1995 and 1998. Compulsory deposits by CNSS and
CEN still account for most of its funds (69 percent), while the share of other deposits (essentially
from its branches, insurance companies, savings banks etc.) has been rising only slowly.
The change in the manner of remunerating compulsory deposits with CDG by moving the agency
from a government-regulated rate to a market-based return proved very timely, especially in a
context of falling interest rates. CDG has changed substantially and its relations with major
depositors like CNSS and CEN are now much more carefully managed. The pension funds are now
reorganizing, putting in place well-staffed and well-equipped departments. In due course, the
applicable regulations will have to be amended so that pension funds can autonomouslymanage their
resources and directly choose their fund managers.



11
The reform of the pension schemes is still in its early stages. In fact, no action plan for reforming
the system has yet been adopted, since the prior step, the drafting of a summary report of the existing
schemes' actuarial studies is currently underway and is expected to be completed by June 2000. It
can be confirmed at this point that most of the pension schemes have completed such studies, often
at significant cost in light of their restricted budgets. The need to increase the transparency and
examine the viability of their systems is well understood by the different schemes. The actuarial
studies that have been sent to the World Bank are testimony to this effort. The next step will be to
analyze and consider how to optimize the schemes, and will allow the effectiveness of these first
measures to be assessed.
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.1    Overall Bank Performance
The Bank's performance was satisfactory, despite the modest results with the medium-term
components of the program. The fact is that the Bank negotiated the loan with a governmental team
that changed in the midst of the process. This change removed certain players whose enthusiasm
was key to the program's success.
The Bank clearly underestimated the scope of the work required and the costs involved in conducting
the actuarial studies. It was planned that the Monitoring Conmmittee should complete its work of
validating all the pension schemes, including the six public enterprise "company schemes", by the
end of September 1998, and that it should have a full report on the status of the pension bodies
drafted by the end of March 1999. This schedule was not very realistic, given the time taken by
some of the bodies to call for tenders. Although tenders were called internationally, several of the
pension funds had little choice when it came to making a selection, because there were so few
responses forthcoming. In several cases, moreover, the same consultants undertook several studies,
and insisted on finishing their ongoing projects to CSEA specifications before starting the new ones.
The result was that completion of the studies was delayed by more than a year.
Preparation of the loan was satisfactory, and the QAG paid tribute to this fact in its appraisal. The
adjustment program was judged to be well-balanced and effectively targeted, in the sense that its
objectives were aimed at improving the regulatory and institutional framework for promoting
savings, and more specifically long-term savings, in Morocco. The fact that this operation was
designed as the first of a long series of operations will no doubt contribute significantly to improving
the functioning of financial markets, the pensions systems, the insurance industry, and the emergence
of new  financial instruments.  The QAG  expressed uncertainty, however, regarding the
determination of the Bank, and its Regional Office, and of the Moroccan authorities to ensure
continuity of the loan effort in further operations.
Following the disbursement of loan proceeds in June 1998, three supervisory missions took place: in
December 1998, April 1999 and November 1999. The major problems with the loan were already
apparent during the first mission, at the end of which (in January 1999) the Bank sent a letter to the
Minister of Finance, calling attention to delays in the preparation of the actuarial studies and the
financial audits, and expressing the Bank's concern over the new draft insurance legislation and its
discrepancies with respect to the draft Code that had been discussed during project preparation. The
mission of April/May 1999 found no improvement in the situation noted five months earlier. What
the Bank did was to respond to the request from DAPS for assistance in preparing both the
consolidated report on the actuarial studies and a pension system reform action plan by identifying
consultants to work in the context of the Japanese grant. The Banlk's persistence eventually paid off
and at the end of 1999 most of the actuarial studies and audits for the various pension schemes were
in hand.



12
The issuance of the ICR was delayed since the Bank had decided to postpone it until the actions
linked to the implementation of the medium-term program could be assessed.
7.2    Borrower's Overall Performance
The overall performance of the Borrower was modest. On one hand, despite the Council of
Ministers' rejection of the Insurance Code, the conditions included in the prerequisites for
submission of the project to the Bank's Executive Board were met. The Borrower was also expected
to attend to medium-term policy issues, however, and this called for specific and difficult
preparatory work. The Borrower addressed the regulatory portion after some delay. The draft
legislation on money-market OPCVMs has still not been approved by the Council of Government,
although the working committee dealing with this issue has been in existence since December 1997,
and the highly active OPCVM market is in urgent need of a proper regulatory framework.
Legislation on third-party funds management is still at the drafting stage.
The delays that affected most of the program could have been reduced if it had been undertaken with
a firmer degree of commitment, and if CSEA had been given more authority instead of being limited
to validating actuarial studies and financial audits. The delays in the actuarial studies delivery might
have been reduced if these studies were performed by firms working directly under the CSEA's
responsibility and if their costs were partly supported by the Loan. Moreover, there would appear to
have been a certain lack of coordination between the MOF and the Ministry of Employment, even
though the Monitoring Committee was specifically set up to ensure involvement on the part of the
various departments or ministries concemed.
It was often not easy for the Bank to obtain from the Borrower the data necessary for proper
understanding and monitoring of the program. In this respect, the recent submission of the actuarial
studies to the Bank and the Borrower's declared desire to press ahead with drafting of the
consolidated report are positive signs of a renewed interest.
8. LESSONS LEARNED
This program was highly distinctive in a number of respects. It was a quick-disbursing, single-
tranche operation, and one of the first of its kind in the region in terms of its content. At the same
time, it was negotiated with a government team that changed in the mid program. There are several
lessons to be drawn:
I. The Bank should re-examine the instruments it uses for loan programs where reforms are
politically sensitive and will require a long period of gestation. In the absence of a concrete
program of future disbursements or of a firm commitment by both the Bank and the Borrower,
dialogue will be less fruitful. Yet the Bank should continue to undertake operations of this kind:
on one hand, they provide an incentive for Borrowers to come to grips with the various issues
involved in pension reform, and on the other there may be a very high opportunity cost of failing
to undertake such reforms when demographic data are so favorable.
2. Because of the Insurance Code developments, and since the Government had not comnitted
during the negotiations on the adoption of legislative texts by the Council of Ministers, the Bank
should in the future: a) ask that legislative texts be adopted by the Council of Ministers, and b)
structure its operations in a different way, more precisely by waiting that essential measures are
adopted before taking the project to the Board.
3. It is important that the Bank be able to adapt to shifts of context, and if necessary to revise its
expectations regarding the degree of Borrower commitment when the officials with whom it has



13
to deal change during the course of a loan. In the case of this loan, the Government responsible
for implementing the program had not negotiated it.
4. The Bank should also be more realistic about the length of time needed for such a far-reaching
Teform program. Reform of a pension system has to be based on actuarial studies, and these
require access to solid data. In the case of the pension schemes in this case with relatively
outmoded management structures, these conditions were not fulfilled, since the technical data
essential for launching the studies were simply not available. The Bank should therefore make
allowance for the time and cost required to reconstitute such data.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
The borrower has opted to send comments instead of a specific evaluation. The comments
the Bank has not incorporated are the following:
The Moroccan authorities maintain that their commitment to pursue the reforms has not been
weakened by the change in Government. In addition, they believe that the objectives have not been
affected by the change of the Government. They also consider there was no delay in the adoption of
legislation, specially regarding the Insurance sector, since it is following thenormal approval process
(Council of Govemment, Council of Ministers, Parliament). They alsojudge that the insurance tariff
liberalization is moving ahead and that insurance companies have now the proper tools to set their
benchmark rates.
Contrary to the comments made by the Bank on the role of the CSEA (see section 5.2), the
Moroccan authorities believe that the CSEA had raised the problem of delays in the provision of
actuarial studies and had reflected it in the reports sent to the World Bank, who allegedly did not take
action. The Moroccan authorities believe that the CSEA fully used the powers it was attributed by
the Prime Minister, and as a consequence, did not fail in playing its role in accelerating the pace of
the program.
Regarding the sustainability of reforms of the role of CDG, The Moroccan authorities disagree with
the Bank statement that applicable regulations should be amended so that pension funds can
autonomously manage their resources and directly choose their fund managers since this aspect had
not been included among the Government commitments in the CSDL.
The Moroccan authorities disagree with the statement that " the delays that affected most of the
programs could have been reduced if it had been undertaken with a firmer degree of commitment...".
On the lessons learned (see section 8), the Bank is asking that future legislative texts be adopted by
the Council of Ministers. The Moroccan authorities maintain they cannot commit on the adoption of
legislation by the Council of Ministers or the Parliament.



14
Annex I
Page l of3
Annex 1
Table 1: Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring Period
Estimate    Actual   Estimate   Actual Estimate
1997       1997       1998      1998    1999
Performance Indicators
Flow of Contractual Savings (CS)/GDP (1)                   2,5         2,9        3,0       3,1     3,5
Treasury Financing from CS/flow of CS                     50,0        93,5       46,0      49,4    45,0
Equities & Securities Issues/Net Flow of Bank Credit (2)  44,0        59,2       45,0      40,3    46,0
Assumptions/Preconditions for Success 7
Govenmuent Deficit/GDP                                     4,1         3,2        2,9       2,3     2,0
Recurrent Expenditure/Total Expenditure                    85,0       83,3       81,9      83,1    80,9
Table 2: Amount of Reserves (in billion DH)
1996           1997                   1998
Insurances Companies                             28,00           32,00                  36,00
CNSS                                              11,81           12,82                 13,75
RCAR/CNRA                                         12,47          14,18                  16,24
CMR                                                0               0                    1,98
CIMR                                              3,34            3,74                  4,47
CEN                                               4,27            5,07                  5,33
Internal Pension Schemes                          5,29            6,50                  6,96
Total      65,18           74,31                 84,73
GDP                                                               319                   341
Table 3: Securities market
In nmillion DH                                                        1997                  1998
Debt Instrurents (TCN)                                               3 349                  4 229
Bonds (excluding. the Government' s)                                  1 146                 1 718
Equities                                                              1 142                 687
Total Issued                                5 637                 6 634
Source: CDVM and Bank Al Maghrib
7Macro-economic data are running from June 1997 to June 1998 for 1997, and June 1998 to June 1999 for 1998.



15
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Table 4: Capital Market Issues/Listings, 1995-1998
In millions of DH           1995            1996              1997             1998
Issues of shares for cash:
Value at issue                  159             809               895              687
Number of transactions           4               4                 5                4
Issues of shares for assets:
Value at issue                   -              11                247
Number of transactions           -               1                 1
Bonus issues:
Value at issue                   1354          8 711               72            77 294
Number of transactions           4               7                 2                2
Spin-off listings:
Value at issue                  527            2137               295              918
Number of transactions           2               4                 2                5
Source: CDVM
Table 5: New Company Listings on the Casablanca Stock Exchange in 1998 and 1999
Year of ListingCompany Name                     1998                     1999
La Marocaine Vie                                     Insurance
Wafa Assurances                                      Insurance
Papelera de Tetuan                                   Packaging
Aluminium du Maroc                                   Metallurgy
Agma                                                 Assurances
Maghreb Oxygene                                                                 Energy
Afriquia Gaz                                                                    Energy
Auto Nejma                                              .                     Automobiles
Source: CDVM



16
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Table 6: Amount of Transfers from the Insurance Solidarity Fund to
Liquidated Insurance Companies as of November 1999
(in million DII)
Company name   Amount established          Amount paid             Tax arrears paid
Arabia                   231,0                  202,6                     61,6
Cada                     119,6                  119,2                     3,3
Remar                    118,9                  106,2                     3,2
Renaissance              269,7                  255,4                     11,2
Victoire                 308,0                  308,0                     18,0
Total        1047,0                 991,5                     97,3
Source: DAPS, 1999
Table7: Liquidated Insurance Companies - Assets Sold
(in million DII)
Liquid Assets
Company Name          Total Sold        Remaining to be Sold
Arabia                   39,9                    2,9
Cada                     54,0                    6,7
Remar                    88,7                   168,8
Renaissance              42,0                    0,6
Victoire                 138,4                    0
Total        363,0                  179,1
Source: DAPS, 1999
Fixed Assets
Company            Total sold         Remaining to be sold
name
Victoire                 990                     Nd
Source: DAPS, 1999



17
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
Annex 2
Project Costs and Financing
Project Financing (in US$ million equivalent)
Item/source                 Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimate
Total                          235                               279.5
Of which ADB                       135                               179.5
Of which IBRD                       100                               100



18
Annex 3
Page I of 1
Annex 3. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performance
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS,                        Rating
etc.)
Month/Year            Count             Specialty           Implementation    Development
l__________________________I      Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1997                  6       2 Senior Financial
specialists, 2 Economists, 1
Pension specialist, 1
Academic
Pre-Appraisal
June 1997                      5       2 Senior Financial
specialists, 2 Economists, 1
Academic
Supervision                   .._-
December 98                    2           2 Financial specialists         U                 S
April 99                       2          1 Economist, 1 Financial         U                 S
specialist
ICR
November 1999                  2        1 Economist, 1 Financial           U                 S
specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                        US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                          52.4                              203.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                               23.0                                64.3
Supervision                                         26.0                               63.4
ICR                                                  4.0                                20.0
Total                                              105.4                               351.0



19
Annex 4
Page I of I
Annex 4. Rating for Achievements of Objectives/Outputs by Components
Not
Objectives/Outputs      High    Substantial   Modest   Negligible   Applicable
Macro Policies                    _      X
Sector Policies                          X
Physical                                                                      X
Financial                                X
Institutional Development         _      X
Environmental                                                                 X
Social:
Poverty Reduction                                                   x
Gender                                                     x
Other (Specify)                                                   x
Private Sector Development                         -- X
Public Sector Development                        _                            X
Other (Specify)           _         _



Annex 5. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly
Higlly  atisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance:
Lending                               X
Supervision                              X
Overall                   _          X          _
Borrower Performance:
Preparation                              X
Government Inipleniienitatiotn Performrlanice                                         X
Implementation Agency Performance               .
Overall                              X   ...
_ D
o>:
_ t



