Report No. PID5533
Project Name         Morocco-Contractual Savings Development Loan (CSDL) (@
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       MAPE47582
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing agency              Ministry of Finance
Contact: Mr. Abdellatif Loudyi
Director, Treasury
Ministry of Finance, Trade,
Industry and Handicraft
Avenue Mohammed 5,
Rabat, Challah, Morocco
tel.     (212-7) 76.35.20
fax     (212-7) 76.49.50
Date initial PID prepared        July 1997
PID update                       November 1997
Project appraisal date           September 6, 1997
Project Board date               January 8, 1998
Background
1.      The Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDL) represents a
continuation of the financial sector reforms that Morocco launched
in the late eighties, and that the Bank has supported through
previous operations -- notably the Financial Sector Development
Project (FSDP) of 1991, and the Financial Market Development Loan
(FMDL) of 1995. These operations gradually removed distortions
impeding the mobilization of financial savings and their free
intermediation; contributed to reducing the crowding out of
financial resources by the Government; and improved competition in
financial services. This approach has gone a long way toward
eliminating major distortions to competition, establishing the
market legislative, regulatory and physical infrastructure, and
achieving a substantial degree of financial depth, as measured by
the ratio of M2 to GDP (an annual average of 65 percent in 1995-96).
Morocco has now a healthy commercial banking system and an emerging
capital market, both of which are necessary for the development of a
modern and productive private sector.
2.      Despite these achievements, domestic savings and private
investment in Morocco remain below those of countries that have
achieved high and sustainable growth. To alleviate this constraint,
a reform of the contractual saving sector -- insurance companies,
the pension system, and savings banks -- coupled with continued
fiscal discipline, is necessary for two major reasons: (a) despite
their potential, underdeveloped and ailing insurance sector and
pension system contribute to low savings mobilization, particularly



long-term savings; and (b) the Treasury captures a significant share
of available long-term savings through its control over major
contractual savings institutions, notably the Caisse de D6p¶ts et de
Gestion (CDG), thus preventing a market-based allocation of scarce
domestic resources. The availability of long-term resources is all
the more important, as the maturity mismatch between long-term
private investment opportunities (due to privatization,
infrastructure projects, etc.), and scarce, mostly short-term
available resources, is becoming a significant obstacle to growth.
3.      The Moroccan authorities believe that reforming contractual
savings institutions, and establishing a level playing field between
the Government and the private sector for the allocation of
financial resources, constitute the next critical phase of financial
sector reform. There are three main reasons for this. First, these
measures are prerequisites to increasing domestic savings,
particularly long-term savings. Second, they will ensure that
private firms have access to a wider range of sources of finance and
can compete for credit on an equal footing with the public sector.
Third, they will contribute to increasing competition in the
financial sector by allowing new instruments and agents to emerge
alongside commercial banks and by further developing capital
markets.
The proposed loan
4.      The proposed CSDL is the first in a series of adjustment
operations being developed by the World Bank and the Kingdom of
Morocco to improve the accumulation and allocation of long-term
savings and guarantee the long-term sustainability of the country's
pension system. The CSDL's main objective is to improve the
mechanisms of long-term savings mobilization and allocation to
private productive investment by reforming contractual savings
institutions, including insurance companies, savings banks and the
pension system. It is based on the premise that two important
elements are required to put Morocco on a higher growth path: higher
savings, and higher efficiency in savings allocation. Specific
policy measures concern:
(a) completing the financial restructuring of the insurance
sector, and improving its solidity and image;
(b) laying the basis for improved efficiency, transparency and
financial viability of the existing pension system, and for the
establishment of capitalized pension funds;
(c) changing the role of the CDG in the collection, administration
and allocation of the financial resources of the pension system and
savings banks; and
(d) further improving capital market infrastructure and the range
of instruments available to (institutional) investors.
5.      The CSDL would support policy actions which are envisaged for
the short term. The program, however, launches a major reform
-2 -



effort which is inherently long-term, especially in regard to
pension reforms. It has been designed, therefore, as the first in a
sequence of operations in which the Bank will support the Kingdom of
Morocco's efforts to improve the viability and efficiency of
contractual savings institutions. Medium-term efforts will be
needed to complete and consolidate the reforms implemented under the
present operation. In the case of insurance and capital markets,
this will essentially mean completing liberalization and further
enhancing competition in the context of an improved regulatory
framework. In the case of the pension system, it will entail a
major reform effort based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the actuarial studies and audits carried out as part of this operation.
Risks and Benefits
6.      The main benefits of CSDL will be: (a) improving the financial
management and competitive behavior of contractual savings
institutions, especially insurance companies and savings banks; (b)
laying the foundations for a deep reform of the pension system,
based on the restructuring of all existing pension schemes, and the
creation of a fully capitalized pillar which will contribute to the
accumulation and efficient allocation of savings; (c) allowing a
more dynamic accumulation and management of resources by contractual
savings institutions, in the context of prudential guidelines, thus
eventually reallocating part of these resources toward private
productive investment; (d) promoting competition in the management
of funds and in financial intermediation by transforming contractual
savings institutions into true institutional investors and by laying
the groundwork for the emergence of a class of competitive asset
managers in Morocco; and (e) further improving the financial sector
infrastructure which will make this efficient allocation of long-
term financial resources possible in practice.
7.      The main risks concern: (a) the potential impact on the
resources needed to implement insurance and pension reform of a
fiscal slippage, in particular of the recurrent component of
Government expenditures; (b) the possibility that the Government
make ad hoc pension concessions thus further worsening the
sustainability of the pension system; and (c) the commitment of the
authorities to implement the pension reform. These risks will be
mitigated by: (a) including fiscal monitoring indicators; (b)
requiring a strong Government commitment to pension reform, and (c)
making CSDL a small-size first project of a sequence, and linking
the potential follow-up pension reform project to the success of
this first operation.
Cost and Financing
8.      The proposed World Bank loan amounts to US$50 million and
FRF295.1 million (US$100 million equivalent) at variable rates for
twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard
Libor and Pibor interest rates respectively for the US Dollar
tranche and the French Franc loan tranche. parallel financing may be
provided by the African Development Bank for an amount of FRF405
million and US$68.26 million, at variable interest rates and would
- 3 -



be a two-tranche operation.
Implementation
9.      The borrower is the Government of Morocco.   The program will be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance.
Poverty Category
10.     Not applicable.
Environmental Category
11.     This project is classified under category C (no significant
environmental impact).
Program Objective Categories
12.     The proposed loan supports developments in two of the World
Bank's areas of special operational emphasis, namely private sector
development, and economic management.
Contact Point:          Mr. Denis Chaput, Task Manager
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 453 2017
Fax: (202) 522 2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
- 4 -



