Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4283-MD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Road Sector Program Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 3, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4283-MD 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 3, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOLDOVA 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to ten 
million eight hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,800,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project through the MTRI and 
cause Parts A and B.2 of the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The Road Sector Program adopted by the Recipient in accordance with 
Part E of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior consultation with 
the Association. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01
 
of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice 
of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
Page  4
3
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity.   
(c) 
The Recipient, through the Project Implementing Entity, has issued the 
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized by the Project 
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
The Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Cosmonaut Street, 7 
 2005 
Chisinau 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(373 - 22) 24-0055 
Page  5
4
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Mihail Pop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Edward Brown 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce road transport costs for road users in the 
road network recovered under the Project by improving the condition and quality of said 
network and its management. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Road Network Recovery
Carrying out rehabilitation works on selected road sections along the main North-
South road corridor between Balti, Sangerei, Orhei, Chisinau, Hincesti and Comrat under 
the responsibility of the Project Implementing Entity. 
Part B
:
Institutional Support
1. 
Provision of support to improve the Recipient’s capacity to plan, manage and 
maintain the network of national roads in Moldova, including activities such as the 
development of a reliable road maintenance financing mechanism, improvements to the 
system of road maintenance execution and contracting, and implementation of a system 
designed to curb the circulation of overload trucks. 
2. 
Provision of support to strengthen the capacity of the Project Implementing 
Entity to efficiently manage and maintain the roads under its responsibility and to 
manage investment programs for road rehabilitation, reconstruction and construction. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
1.
 
MTRI responsible for the overall oversight and management of the Project 
The Recipient, through the MTRI, shall ensure that the appropriate departments 
in the MTRI, with the assistance of the Project Implementing Entity, oversee the 
overall Project implementation and management with due diligence and 
efficiency, all in accordance with the Operations Manual. 
2. 
Project Implementing Entity responsible for the overall day-to-day management 
of the Project
The Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for the overall day-to-day 
management of the Project, including consolidated financial and procurement 
management and other Project-related tasks, all in accordance with the 
Operations Manual. 
3. 
Road Sector Program Steering Committee
At the national level, the Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation 
of the Project, a high-level Road Sector Program Steering Committee which shall 
act as a body responsible for the strategic coordination and oversight of Road 
Sector Program, and of Project activities implemented, by the authorities 
participating in the Project, all under terms of reference and a composition 
satisfactory to the Association. To this effect, the Recipient shall expand, by not 
later than one month after effectiveness of the Project, the mandate of the Road 
Sector Program Steering Committee to cover the coordination and oversight of 
the implementation of the Road Sector Program and Project activities.       
B. Implementation 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing 
Entity’s respective 
Parts of the Project, the Recipient shall enter into an implementation agreement 
with the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall include provisions setting forth that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall be responsible for the overall day-to-day management 
of the Project, including consolidated financial and procurement management 
and other Project-related tasks, all in accordance with the Operations Manual. 
(“Implementation Agreement”).  
Page  8
7
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action 
Plan.   
D. Safeguards 
1. Environmental 
Safeguard
(a)  
The Recipient shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying 
out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner 
and that all legal and administrative planning and environmental permits and 
authorizations necessary to carry out Part A of the Project are secured in a timely 
manner and with due diligence. 
(b)  
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take all 
measures necessary and identified under the Environmental Management Plan at 
all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the 
implementation of said measures is suitably included in the Project progress 
reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule. 
2. Operations 
Manual
(a) 
The Recipient shall take and cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
take all actions required to ensure that the Operations Manual is applied and 
followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Associations shall otherwise agree or as the Association 
may otherwise judge it necessary to update the Operations Manual to reflect and 
support a sustainable evolution of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that it 
does not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  9
8
E. Road 
Sector 
Program 
 
The Recipient shall formally adopt, after consultations with the Association, a 
Road Sector Program by December 31, 2007, including a Road Sector Strategy and a 
multi-year prioritized Road Investment and Expenditure Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association.   
F.  
Budgetary Arrangements: 
1. 
The Recipient shall use the Road Sector Program as the basis for budgeting and 
decision-making in the road sector.  
2. 
Unless the Association agrees otherwise, the Recipient shall increase the 
resources available for the maintenance works on public roads to reach an amount 
equivalent to $16 million in 2008, $18 million in 2009 and $20 million in 2010 and use 
such additional resources for maintenance contracts on public roads. Periodic 
maintenance contracts on public roads shall be conducted through national competitive 
bidding. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Reports 
1. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Road Sector Program and prepare related reports 
satisfactory to the Association
 (“Program Reports”).  
 
(b)  
The Recipient shall also cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association (“Project Reports”).   
 
(c) 
Each report under paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be presented in the 
form of a consolidated report which shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity, shall prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the 
Project Reports to be prepared under paragraph (b) of Part A.1 of this Section, 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation 
Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  11
10
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) Shopping 
 
(b) 
Limited International Bidding (for Goods only) 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a)  Quality- and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) 
 
(b)  Quality-based Selection (QS) 
 
(c)  Fixed-budget Selection (FBS) 
 
(d)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(e)  Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
Page  12
11
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions, to (a) repay the Project Preparation 
Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General Conditions; and (b) 
finance 100% (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ 
services and 
training for the 
Project 
 10,260,000 
100% 
(2) Refund of Project 
Preparation 
Advance 
 
540,000
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.07 
of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 10,800,000 
 
For the purposes of the table in Part A.2 of Section IV of this Agreement, the 
term “Training” means the expenditures incurred to finance in-country and overseas 
training to be undertaken under the Project to support the objectives of the Project, under 
terms acceptable to the Association. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement  
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each June 15 and December15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2017 to and including 
December 15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing June 15, 2027 to and including 
December 15, 2046 
2% 
_________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
13
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Action Plan” means the anti-corruption plan of the Project 
Implementing Entity for the investments and services under the Road Sector 
Program, dated February 12, 2007, and referred to in paragraph E of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which may be updated from time to time in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Dollar” and “$” mean the lawful currency of the United States of America. 
6. 
 “Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the plan to be prepared by 
the Recipient under terms satisfactory to the Association and covering among 
others the environmental mitigation measures anticipated for investments under 
the Project." 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
9. 
“MTRI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Transport and Road Industry, or its 
legal successor thereof. 
10. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual to be issued by the Recipient for the 
purposes of Part D.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and including 
the environmental management plan. 
Page  15
14
11.  
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
13. 
 “Project Implementing Entity” means the State Roads Administration, a public 
enterprise established in accordance with the Government Decision No. 678, 
dated July 19, 2001 “On the Establishment of the State Road Administration”, 
the Government Decision No. 38, dated January 17, 2002 “On Approving the 
Regulation, Structure and Staffing of the Ministry of Transportation and 
Communications” and the Order of the Minister of Transportation and 
Communications No. 16, dated February 7, 2002 and functioning on the basis of 
Statutes registered with the State Registration Chamber as of April 15, 2002,  
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Government Decision 
No. 678 dated July 19, 2001 “On the Establishment of the State Road 
Administration”, the Government Decision No.38 dated January 17, 2002 “On 
Approving the Regulation, Structure and Staffing of the Ministry of 
Transportation and Communications” and the Order of the Minister of 
Transportation and Communications No.16 dated February 7, 2002. 
 
15. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on November 28, 2006 
and on behalf of the Recipient on December 5, 2006. 
 
16. 
“Road Sector Program Steering Committee” means the committee established by 
the Recipient pursuant to the Order of the Prime Minister, dated November 21, 
2006 for the purposes of carrying out Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement. 
 
