Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4283-MD 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Roads Sector Program Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
STATE ROADS ADMINISTRATION 
 
Dated May 3, 2007 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 3, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and STATE ROADS 
ADMINISTRATION (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date 
between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (“Recipient”) and the Association.  The 
Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A and 
B.2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for its respective Parts of the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its respective Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Chief Manager of the 
State Road Administration. 
Page  3
2
3.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
12 A Bucurei St 
2004 Chisinau 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(37322) 74 1219 
 
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Edward Brown 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE ROADS ADMINISTRATION 
 
By /s/ Vitalie Panurco 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of t
he Project Implementing Entity’s  
Respective Parts of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
The Project Implementing Entity will carry out the fiduciary activities for the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with administrative 
and financial practices required by the Project.  
 
B. Implementation 
Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
enter into under an implementation agreement with the Recipient, under terms 
and conditions approved by the Association, which shall include provisions 
setting forth that the Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for the 
overall day-to-day management of the Project, including consolidated financial 
and procurement management and other Project-related tasks, all in accordance 
with the Operations Manual.
 (“Implementation Agreement”).  
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Project Implementing Entity and the Association and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the 
Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its respective Parts of the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. 
 
D. Safeguards
.
1. Environmental 
Safeguard
(a)  
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that all measures necessary 
for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner and that all legal and administrative planning and environmental 
permits and authorizations necessary to carry out Part A of the Project are 
secured in a timely manner and with due diligence. 
Page  5
4
(b)  
The Project Implementing Entity shall take all measures necessary and 
identified under the Environmental Management Plan at all times in a timely 
manner, ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of said 
measures is suitably included in the Project progress reports to be prepared 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule. 
2. Operations 
Manual
The Project Implementing Entity shall take all actions required to ensure that the 
Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.
A. Reports 
 
1. 
(a)  
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of the Road Sector Program and prepare reports satisfactory to the Association 
(“Program Report”)  
 
(b)  
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of the Project and prepare Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with 
the Association (“Project Report”).   
 
(c) 
Each report under paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be presented in the 
form of a consolidated report which shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity, shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the 
Project Reports to be prepared under paragraph (b) of Part A.1 of this Section, 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  6
5
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity 
,
commencing with the 
fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation 
Advance was made
 .  The audited financial statements for each period shall be 
furnished to the Recipient and the Association not later than six months after the 
end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s 
respective Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement. 
 
