                                                 E1544

           REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

  MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND ROAD INDUSTRY

             State Road Administration




 SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT


MOLDOVA ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT




     Dr. Ruslan Melian, Environmental Consultant


                   February 2007

                     MOLDOVA
                      Chisinau

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project           Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ATU          Autonomous Territorial Unit
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EA           Environmental Assessment
EAMF         Environmental Assessment and Management Framework
EECUN        European Economic Commission of United Nations
EGPRSP       Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
EU           European Union
GoM          Government of Moldova
IEE          Initial Environmental Examination
IDA          International Development Association
MENR         Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
MTRI         Ministry of Transport and Road Industry
NGO          Non-governmental organization
OP/ BP/ GP Operational Policies, Bank Procedures and Good Practices
REC          Regional Environmental Center
SEA          Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SEE          State Ecological Expertise
SEIA         Statement on the Environmental Impact Assessment
SEI          Sate Ecological Inspectorate
SRA          State Road Administration
TA           Technical Assignment
UNDP         United Nation Development Programme
WB           World Bank




                                             2

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                                                           Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                             REPORT CONTENT


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.......................................................................................................................................... 4

INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................................................................ 8

1.  PROGRAM DESCRIPTION.......................................................................................................................... 11

2.  DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENT (BASELINE DATA)....................................................................... 13

  2.1.   BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT.................................................................................................................... 13
  2.2.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT ............................................................................................................ 20
  2.3.   CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL ENVIRONMENT............................................................................................ 23

3.  POLICY, LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND ROAD
SECTOR.................................................................................................................................................................... 25

  3.1.   NATIONAL POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS ............................................................................. 25
  3.2.   NATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND ECOLOGICAL EXPERTISE . 32
  3.3.   OTHER RELEVANT GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES.................................................................................... 38

4.  INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND CAPACITY TO PERFORM SAFEGUARDS......................... 39

  4.1.   NATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK................................................................................................. 39
  4.2.   ASSESSMENT OF CAPACITIES TO PERFORM SAFEGUARDS.......................................................................... 40
  4.3.   WB SAFEGUARDS PROCEDURES TO BE CONSIDERED ................................................................................ 41
  4.4.   ASSESSMENT OF ADEQUACY OF NATIONAL EA REQUIREMENTS TO THE WB RULES AND PROCEDURES ... 42

5.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS..................................................................................................................... 43

6.  ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES ................................................................................................................ 45

7.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN .............................................................................................. 47

  7.1.   NATIONAL AND SECTOR LEVEL MITIGATION............................................................................................. 47
  7.2.   EA AND MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK...................................................................................................... 48
  7.3. ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES ...................................................................................................................... 56
  7.4.   ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN....................................................................................................... 59

8.  PUBLIC CONSULTATION ........................................................................................................................... 62

9.  IMPLEMENTING ARRANGEMENTS AND BUDGET.............................................................................. 63

  9.1.   IMPLEMENTING ARRANGEMENTS.............................................................................................................. 63
  9.2.   BUDGET.................................................................................................................................................... 67

ANNEXES ................................................................................................................................................................. 70




                                                                                 3

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Executive summary

Moldova: Road Sector Program Support Project

Introduction

Moldova's road network totals about 10 537 km, of which 3,666 km are classified as National
Roads and the remainder as Local Roads.            Considering the size of the country and its
population, the road network size is mostly adequate, with little or no need for expansion. About
58 percent of national roads are classified as poor, while for local roads the situation is worse,
with 75 percent estimated to be in poor condition. The Government is presently preparing a
Road Sector Program with the following main objectives: (i) to protect Moldova's core national road
network from further deterioration; and (ii) to create an adequate institutional and financial
framework for the sustainable development of road infrastructure and transport services. The
Bank will support the Government's Program through an IDA-financed Road Network Recovery
Project that would be the first World Bank-financed operation in Moldova's transport sector.

Terms of reference and methodology

The main scope of the environmental assessment process is to: (i) ensure that environmental
issues have been taken into account in the design and implementation of the project; and (ii)
ensure that country capacity is increased and that a regulatory framework and procedures are
established and will serve as the basis for environmental impact assessments for all future road
sector rehabilitation. For the proposed road investment program involving future projects (still to
be defined), it is necessary to conduct: (i) a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the
overall program prior to the commitment of resources and the finalization of subprojects; and (ii)
a project-level Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to provide more detailed and
subproject-specific analyses once the subprojects are identified. Therefore, the overall SEA goal
is to try and determine the future potential environmental and social impacts of the program in
the road sector, to specify the needs for EA institutional capacity building, and to define the
mitigation and monitoring measures to be undertaken during project implementation.

The study was conducted based on the following: (i) analysis of the existing national legal
documents, regulations and guidelines; (ii) SEA reports prepared for similar WB projects in
other countries; (iii) WB safeguard policies, as well as guiding materials; (iv) results of
consultations with the representatives from all interested stakeholders; and (v) field visits on the
potential road subprojects that are under the consideration of the GoM for their inclusion in the
project.

Project Environmental Category

Although project activities supporting rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing roads are
not expected to generate significant adverse environmental and social effects, they would
present moderate risks. In accordance with World Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4.01
Environmental Assessment) the project is rated environmental category B (limited and
reversible environmental impact). For such projects EIAs and an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) would nevertheless have to be carried out as part of project preparation and design.
The EMPs would address the moderate adverse environmental effects of the physical
rehabilitation activities of the project, would provide mitigation and monitoring plans to ensure
appropriate attention to environmental and social issues, and would monitor management
practices.

Environmental and Social Safeguards Review Process



                                                  4

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Evaluation of environment and social safeguards issues has been an integral part of project
preparation and of the selected road sub projects design. As the project will consist of several
relatively similar road improvement subprojects (to be identified at a later stage of project
design), it was decided to apply a phased approach to the EA. At the first stage it will be
necessary to conduct the SEA. The SEA would consist of: (i) conducting an analysis of EA
institutional capacities and preparing recommendations for improving the EA process in the road
sector; (ii) preparing an environmental assessment and management framework (EAMF) that
would establish safeguard procedures for selected road subprojects as well as guidelines with
the details on potential environmental and social issues on how to prepare EMPs. This would
serve as a template to undertake an appropriate environmental assessment of road subprojects
once identified. At the second stage, the EA would include: (i) screening of proposed
subprojects and identifying those that need a partial or full EIA study; and (ii) carrying out a
specific EIA and preparing EMPs for selected roads.

National EA legal and institutional framework

Moldova has its own relatively well-developed legal and institutional framework for
Environmental Assessments. This framework is in line with the existing WB EA rules and
procedures as well as with the EU EIA Directives. The national EA legal basis is presented in
two main laws: Law on Environmental Protection (1993) and Law on Ecological Expertise and
Environment Impact Assessment (1996). These laws introduce the concept of state ecological
review (literally, state ecological "expertise" ­ SEE) which seeks to examine the compliance of
proposed activities and projects with the requirements of environmental legislation and
standards. The SEE precedes decision-making about activities that may have an adverse
impact on the environment. Financing of programs and projects is allowed only after a positive
SEE conclusion has been issued. Procedures for conducting a SEE are contained in Guidelines
on Performing SEE (2002). They define, in detail, the goal, objectives, and principles of the
SEE, and stipulate the procedures for submitting project documentation, as well as reviewing
procedures. For the road sector, the Ministry of Transport and Roads Industry (MTRI) has
issued in 1997 specific "Guidelines concerning environmental protection within the roads and
bridges design, construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities". The Guidelines
represent a comprehensive document that contains all environmental and social requirements
necessary for designing, constructing and maintaining different types of roads and bridges in the
country.

The responsible EE authority in Moldova is the Division on SEE within the State Ecological
Inspectorate, a subdivision of the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources (MENR).

Institutional capacities to perform safeguards

The EA institutional capacity of the borrower was assessed during project preparation and
concluded that MENR and SEE have relevant capacities to perform their duties concerning
reviewing EA studies and enforcing EMP provisions. At the same time, within the MTRI and the
State Road Administration (SRA) (the project implementing agency), there was not any special
unit and/or especially designated staff responsible for environmental issues in the road sector,
as well as any analytical laboratories that might assist in ensuring compliance with the existing
legislation, regulations and ecological norms. In this regard it will be necessary to provide TA to
the MTRI to strengthen its capacity and ensure the environmental requirements will be fully
integrated into sectoral policies, and program design, as well as into design and implementation
of the EIAs for subprojects.

Analysis of Environmental Impacts for the Road Sector

The nature and scale of impacts will be determined by the type of interventions undertaken by
the project to assist the road sector, which focuses on rehabilitation and maintenance of the

                                                  5

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




existing roads. Generally no major project environmental impacts are expected. Most potential
environmental and social impacts will be limited mainly to the effects associated with
rehabilitation works, such as dust and noise control, use of bitumen, disposal of solid or
hazardous waste, erosion control, and labor camp management (which will be temporary with
only minor and localized negative effects). After completion, the project will have positive
indirect impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of accidents and
reduced air pollution from more constant travel speeds on rehabilitated road sections.

In order assist in identifying all the types of impacts that may arise from a project that will be
selected, a checklist has been developed which highlights typical issues that need to be
considered. The checklist serves to summarize potential impacts and provide a simple and
visual tool for conducting an impact assessment, including assessment of magnitude and
significance of the identified impacts.

Environment Management Plan

The SEA includes an EMP which covers different measures to mitigate any potential negative
impacts, together with the respective monitoring plan, budgets, responsibility, and schedules of
execution. The EMP consists of the following: (a) proposals for developing the regulatory
framework for the EIA, strengthening the EIA capacity in all institutions involved; (b) an EA and
EAMF that covers procedures for environmental screening of subprojects and criteria for
categorization; it also covers procedures for conducting an EIA and/or preparing an EMP for
selected subprojects; (c)        environmental guidelines with the description of potential
environmental and social impacts and suggested mitigation measures, based on the most
advanced international practices; (d) a monitoring plan, including specifications for supervision
as well as the basic environmental performance indicators, timeframe and responsibilities for
proposed monitoring activities; and (e) implementing arrangements and a budget covering each
step of the implementation of all proposed measures.

The first section of the EMP outlines the results of a short analysis of EA policy and the
institutional framework, which is based on a series of recommendations for developing the
regulatory mechanisms for EIA, and strengthening the EIA capacity in all institutions involved,
i.e. in governmental road sector and environmental agencies and among national contractors

The EAMF outlines how the national EA rules, procedures and WB requirements will be applied
to the civil works to be financed under the proposed project, and provides the tools to carry out
the various steps required. It will be used as a guide and template by SRA to undertake
environmental analysis and ensure compliance with the World Bank's environmental safeguard
policies, and the relevant provisions under the Law on EE and EIS and associated regulations.
Detailed EIAs/EMPs for individual civil works will be carried out (in accordance with the EAMF)
by SRA consultants and when applicable, will be reviewed and cleared by the SEE under
prevailing national environmental legislation in Moldova and satisfactory to the Bank.

The environmental management guidelines contained in the EMP describe the basic road
maintenance and rehabilitation activities, identify possible environmental impacts for each
activity, suggest mitigation measures, and designate responsibility for implementation.
Implementation would be part of the road works contract while their enforcement would be the
responsibility of the SRA, supervision consultant and of the State Ecological Inspectorate.

The Monitoring Plan includes measures that will be employed to track the effectiveness of the
EMP, as well as environmental indicators to be monitored, monitoring methods and frequency,
and reporting procedures. Furthermore, it also includes detailed recommendations concerning
preparing and implementing subproject Monitoring Plans.




                                                 6

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Main EMP provisions, especially with regard to EAMF, Environmental Guidelines and
Monitoring Plans will be included in the Project Operational Manual and implemented by the
SRA and contractors. Furthermore, it is proposed the main stipulations of these EMP sections
be included in the Contract specifications that concern contractors' responsibilities for civil
works, and the mitigation measures to be reflected in the engineering designs and bidding
documents for each subproject. Among the most important provisions to be provided to the
contractors (though there are others) are the following: (a) provisions on spill prevention and
cleanup, dust and noise control, traffic management during construction, safety enhancement,
construction site cleanup and rehabilitation; and, (b) provisions governing the sources of
construction materials. Materials (e.g., asphalt, stone, sand, etc.) would be supplied only from
sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals for environment and worker safety;
any equipment used during construction would meet internationally recognized standards for
environment and worker health and safety. The Bank will review the initial contracts for roads
rehabilitation works in each subproject to ensure that these clauses and measures are
incorporated as proposed.

The EMP also provides details on implementing arrangements and capacity building activities. It
is proposed a full-time environmental specialist be appointed in the SRA to assist with the SEA
and EMP implementation, as well as to provide training on environmental management aspects
of the project to MTRI and MENR and their rayon offices. The project would also provide the
MTRI and SRA technical assistance for environment management and assessment, including
training workshops in: (a) integrating environmental procedures, environmental policies and
management into the project cycle; (b) reviewing projects that would require the preparation of
limited or full environmental assessment; and (c) implementing EMPs for selected road
subprojects. Additionally the project will support training activities for SEE on supervision of the
EMPs implementation and the enforcement of provisions.

An amount of US $ as yet to be determined will be allocated for institutional strengthening of the
MTRI and SRA, as well as to SEE staff. The actual cost of implementing the EMP for road
subprojects was not estimated. Provided these are incorporated into the project design and
reflected in the works contracts then these costs would be borne by the contractors. No
additional funding will be provided to the State Ecological Inspectorate for monitoring
compliance with agreed measures, enforcing laws, regulations and covenants; these costs
would be borne by the institution.




                                                 7

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Introduction

Moldova's roads and Government plans

Moldova's road network totals about 10 537 km, of which 3,666 km are classified as National
Roads and the remainder as Local Roads. Considering the size of the country and its
population, the road network size is mostly adequate, with little or no need for expansion. The
network is not in good condition; about 58 percent of national roads are poor. For local roads
the situation is even worse. It was estimated that 75 percent of them are in poor condition.
Presently the Government is being prepared a comprehensive Transport Sector Program 2008-
2017 that will include a Transport Sector Strategy and a prioritized 10-year Transport
Investment and Expenditure Plan. The Strategy will address the underlying causes and issues
of the road infrastructure crisis and propose legal, institutional and physical measures to
overcome this situation. The Program will outline frameworks for all actions, investments and
expenditures in the Transport Sector starting from 2008 onwards, including those to be financed by
external donors. Investments in the road sector for the years 2006 and 2007 are based on the
Government's interim program.


The Bank support

The World Bank and the Government have agreed that the Bank will support the Government's
Transport Sector Program (in particular the Road Sector Program) through IDA funds, starting
from 2007. This is reflected in the recent CAS update. The proposed IDA-financed Road Sector
Program Support would be the first Bank-financed operation in Moldova's transport sector. The
core objectives of the Government's Road Sector Program are: (i) to protect Moldova's core
national road network from further deterioration; and (ii) to create an adequate institutional and
financial framework for the sustainable development of road infrastructure and transport services.
These objectives are closely linked with objectives stated in the EGPRSP, which is the guiding
framework for cooperation between the Government, Bank and other donors.


SEA goals and objectives

The main goal of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was to determine and estimate
the future potential environmental and social impacts of the activities to be undertaken under the
project, and to define the mitigation measures, monitoring and the institutional measures to be
undertaken during the implementation of the project. The objectives of the study are to:

    ·  identify the country's rules and procedures as well as institutional capacity for conducting
       EIAs of road sector projects;
    ·  identify the most important environmental and social issues related to the road sector in
       Moldova;
    ·  develop EA and Management Framework that would cover the safeguard procedures
       for road subprojects yet to be identified, including screening criteria of proposed
       subprojects for identifying those that require a full EIA study the;
    ·  prepare Environmental Guidelines for road projects           that would an assessment of
       potential impacts and generic mitigation measures to be undertaken for identified sub-
       projects at all stages of road projects from identification and selection of roads and
       alignments, through the design and implementation phase, to the monitoring and
       evaluation of results;
    ·  develop a sectoral environmental management plan that would include activities to: (i)
       strengthen institutional capacity for environmental impact assessment of road sector
       projects by developing the policy/regulatory and institutional framework for EIA; (ii)
       strengthen EIA capacity in all institutions involved, i.e. in governmental road sector and


                                                 8

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




        environmental agencies, and among national contractors; (iii) eliminate, minimize and/or
        mitigate the impacts resulting from sub-projects identified as not requiring full EIAs; (iv)
        formulate recommendations for sector-wide regulatory changes and if possible,
        mitigating measures; and (v) provide general guidelines for monitoring activities;
    ·   propose monitoring procedures, mechanisms, staff, training, equipment and resources to
        ensure that the environmental factors relevant for works undertaken under the roads
        program are implemented;
    ·   Organize SEA disclosure for broad public and interested government and non-
        governmental organizations.

The present study was based on the following: (i) analysis of relevant national primary and
secondary legislation in force, and other regulating documents such as strategies, policies,
programs, etc.; (ii) analysis of the relevant publications, including guidelines, SEAs reports
prepared for similar WB projects in other countries; (iii) WB safeguard policies as well as other
guiding materials; (iv) results of consultations with the representatives from interested
stakeholders/stakeholder groups; and (v) field visits on the potential road sub projects that are
under the consideration of the GoM for their inclusion in the project.


Project Environmental Category

As the project focuses on road maintenance and rehabilitation, all works will be carrying out
within existing right-of-way width. There will be no need for additional land requisitioning and
disturbance to property. The project will not finance the construction of new roads or roads
upgrading and thus it is expected that there will be minor or no impacts on soil and land (i.e.
ones affected soil erosion processes and sedimentation/siltation of rivers, decrease slopes
stability, etc.). It is also expected that rehabilitation/maintenance works will not have any effects
on water resources and water quality along the roads. There will be no impact on natural
vegetation associated with operating of quarry and borrow areas, as well as building of detours
and access roads to the borrow pits and quarries since only existing borrow/quarry sites will be
used. Furthermore, there are no important wildlife and wildlife habitat in the proposed project
areas, and the project activities do not presume any intrusion into known and designated
ecologically sensitive areas, parks and nature reserves. The potential impacts of the project
activities on cultural, religious and historical sites will be assessed during the design stage.
However, it is expected there exists no such sites to be direct affected by road rehabilitation
and/or maintenance works.


Although project activities towards existing roads rehabilitation are not expected to generate
significant adverse environmental effects, they would represent a moderate environmental risk.
Based on aforesaid and in conformity with the World Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4.01
Environmental Assessment) the project is rated environmental category B (limited and
reversible environmental impact). An environmental impact assessment (EIA) and mitigation
plan would nevertheless have to be developed as part of the project preparation studies. The
environmental management plan (EMP) for selected road sub-projects would address the
moderate adverse environmental effects resulting from physical rehabilitation activities of the
project, and would provide mitigation and monitoring plans to ensure proper consideration of
environmental concerns, and tracking progress or problems to ensure appropriate
environmental management.


Environmental and Social Safeguards Review Process

Evaluation of environment and social safeguards issue was an integral part of project
preparation. Since present project is a part of a broader Road Sector Program that would have
a significant effect on the roads conditions in the country, as well as on improving of sectoral
policies and institutional capacity, there was a need to perform both Sectoral Environmental


                                                     9

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project               Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Assessment (SEA) and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) of the selected roads (sub-
projects) where actual physical works would be carried out. The SEA included evaluation of
policy, legal and administrative frameworks; institutional strengthening plan in the field;
recommendations for sector-wide regulatory changes, and mitigations measures. At this initial
design stage, not all road sections to be covered by project were identified, so a site-specific
EIA could not be conducted for all roads to be rehabilitated.      Therefore, a framework for
environmental assessment and management framework (EAMF) had to be prepared as part of
the SEA, providing details of relevant environmental issues and guidelines on how to prepare
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs). This has to serve as a template for performing
proper environmental analysis for road sub-projects to be identified. The EAMF describes the
screening process for identifying sub-projects having potentially significant issues that would
need to be addressed in a sub-project EIA. The Environmental Guidelines include a general
assessment of potential impacts and proposed generic mitigation measures to be undertaken
for identified sub-projects. EIAs and/or EMPs shall be prepared for all individual road
subprojects before works begin to ensure appropriate environmental management.

Based on aforesaid, it was decided to apply a phased approach to Environmental Assessment
that include: (i) SEA including developing recommendations for EIA process and institutional
capacity, development the framework for environmental assessment and management (EAMF),
complying guidelines on how to prepare EMPs to be served as a template for environmental
assessment for road sub-projects once roads are identified; (ii) screening of proposed sub-
projects and identifying those that need partial or full EIA study; (iii) carrying out specific
environmental analyses for identified roads with insignificant environmental impacts; and, (iv)
carrying full EIA study for sub-projects considered as category A and B projects (according to
WB OP 4.01).




                                               10

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




1.      Program description

The proposed operation would provide support to Moldova's Road Sector Program, which
include three sub-programs of the Government's overall road infrastructure expenditures: (i)
Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project, and two others (ii) routine road maintenance,
and (iii) rehabilitation of badly deteriorated roads. It was agreed that Moldova Road Sector
Program Support Project will not include reconstruction of roads which are already mostly
destroyed because this would result in spending of most or even all available project's funds to
recover only one or two road sections while many other roads/road sections requiring just
rehabilitation to meet standard criteria would be further destroyed.

The main development objective of the proposed Moldova Road Sector Program Support
Project will be reducing road transport costs for road users, by improving condition and quality
of road network. This objective will be achieved by:

    ·   Road Rehabilitation Component: rehabilitating 200 - 300 km of main roads and thereby
        reducing road user costs in a short term

    ·   Institutional Strengthening Component:         improving capacity of the State Road
        Administration to manage effectively the road network under its responsibility, and to
        implement road maintenance, rehabilitation and investment programs in an efficient and
        transparent manner. This will lead to reducing of road user costs in a longer term.

The project will be implemented over three-year period, from mid-2007 to mid-2010.

The main objective of the project will be preventing further deteriorating/destroying of Moldova's
road network by carrying out physical works to restore adequate road conditions and thus
recover the asset value of those roads. The project will also support the Government in
implementing the institutional and sector reform measures to be identified by the Transport
Strategy, in particular to create an adequate institutional and financial framework for sustainable
development of road infrastructure and road transport.

The total project cost is estimated to be in the order of US$ 50 million, out of which 40% (US$
20 million) would be provided via IDA credit, and 60% (US$ 30 million) via Government funds.

There were identified the following project components:

Component A:         Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of selected main roads. This
component will include: (i) execution of civil works mostly for spot repairs, resurfacing, drainage
repairs, localized repairs, periodic maintenance and light rehabilitation.; (ii) preparation of
technical design studies, economic feasibility studies, and social and environmental impacts
studies; (iii) preparation of bidding documents for civil works; (iv) works supervision and
technical audit; and (v) related institutional support such as technical assistance for equipment
procurement and other assistance needed for the State Road Administration (SRA). This
project component will be executed by the Ministry of Transport and Road Industry (MTRI), with
technical support from the State Road Administration.

It has been agreed that the road sections to be rehabilitated under the project will be (i) along
the main North-South road corridor, between Criva in the north, Balti, Singerei, Orhei, Chisinau,
Hincesti and Comrat in the South, and (ii) on the European corridor linking Chisinau with the
border to Romania to the west. These two road corridors are the most important ones in terms
of traffic levels and economic importance. Incorporation of the additional road corridor from
Orhei to Rezina town, located at the North-Eastern border of Moldova was under discussion, but
might be not included for feasibility study of about 500 km of roads, from which between 200
and 300 km will be selected for the Component A. Works will mostly consist of the application of
a leveling course and a wearing course of asphalt concrete, after localized repairs have been
carried out on the road. Other works to be carried out are re-establishment of adequate
drainage and horizontal and vertical signage. Specific road safety features are to be included,

                                                 11

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




where appropriate and cost-effective, such as supply and installation of guardrails and traffic
calming measures in villages along the road.


The physical works to be executed under the project shall focus on those roads whose basic
structure is still essentially intact, and which can be saved from heavy deterioration by spending a
relatively small amount of money per km of road. The type of works can be characterized as
periodic maintenance and light rehabilitation; this includes full road resurfacing. This type of
interventions will extend the useful lifespan of a significant portion of Moldova's road network by
about 10 years.

Component B: Support to the implementation of sector reform measures outlined under
the Transport Sector Strategy. This component will include: (i) technical and legal support
services, (ii) training and capacity building for the staff of the administration (ministries and State
Road Administration), road transport operators, and road design and construction firms, (iii)
improvement of the road maintenance management system, and (iv) specific support to help
mobilizing EU funding for the transport sector. This component will be executed by the Ministry
of Transport and Road Industry.




                                                   12

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




2.      Description of Environment (baseline data)

The current description of environment is covering three generic areas as biological and
physical environment, socio-economic environment and cultural/historic environment.             The
information presented is mainly aggregated national data, but were selected as important for
consideration in the road sector development. The specific features to be examined in more
details during project implementation are specified. The Annex 1 includes selected maps,
indicating positions of road corridors.

2.1.    Biophysical environment


·    Country location, geology, topography and relief
Moldova is a small landlocked country of 33,800 km2. It spreads on 350 km from North to South
and on 120 km from West to East, on the latitude of the capital city Chisinau which is the largest
city. Moldova is bordered by Romania on the west and by Ukraine on the north, east and south.
Most of its territory is drained by two large rivers, the Dniester and the Prut, both part of the
Black Sea basin.

Moldova's geology is dominated by the Moldovan plate of the Eastern-European geological
platform, but the southern region lies on the Skiff platform. Sedimentary materials of sandstone,
clay and limestone cover the crystalline basement. These are the main mineral resources of the
country and provide the basis of the construction industry. In territory of Moldova it is revealed a
number of deposits of the minerals dated to described above geological formations. The
majority of them are nonmetallic. As building materials are widely used Neogene limestones
(wall stone and crushed, cement raw material).

Moldova is located within the seismic Carpathian region and is subject to earthquakes, the
intensity of which can reach a rating of 6-8 on the Richter scale.

Location of deposits, available for local building materials (sand, gravel) may influence selection
of optimal sites supporting the road rehabilitation and routine maintaining, but seismic situation
should be considered for application of safety measures required for stability of roads, bridges
and potential landslides, triggered by the earthquakes. This leads to stricter requirements to be
applied to engineering works regarding safety and stability of infrastructure and consequently -
to higher construction costs.

The country's topography is diverse, ranging from a steppe area in the North and South, to
forested and mountainous highlands up to 430 meters in elevation in the center of the country.
The landscape is dominated by rolling hills, and void of mountains and plateaus. The country
forms a varied mosaic of undulating open and wooded steppe alternating with plains. The
country has two geographical zones, subdivided by 5 main geographic regions, and comprised
of 12 geomorphologic elements (or major landscapes). The Forest-Stepe zone at the central
and north part of the country includes: (i) Region of forest-steppe heights and plateau, with
broad flat valleys, has an elevation of between 250 to 300 meters, (ii) Region of Beltsi meadow-
steppe plains and heights with elevations up to 200 metres, and (iii) Region of Codri forest
height. The Kodri Hills, rising to a maximum elevation of about 429 m at Mount Balanesti, occupy
the central portion of the country, while the semi-arid steppe of the Podolian Plateau is in the
south. The Steppe Zone includes: (i) Region of lower Dniester steppe and terraced plains and
(ii) Region of Bugeac steppe dismembered plains.

The mean altitude of the country is 147 m above sea level and the highest elevation is 430 m in
central Moldova. The narrow valleys and steep slopes create the impression of a mountainous
landscape. Additionally, the Moldovan plateau stretches across the north of the country with its

                                                 13

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




thick outcrops of limestone, the so-called toltry, or sedimentary rocks, which remain from the
ancient times when the entire territory was submerged underneath the ocean. In the south, the
extensive Budjac steppe gradually became the coastal lowlands on the Black Sea. The center
of the republic is most hilly. To the south of Chisinau the hillsides are steep; the north of the
country is less hilly.

Topographic relief has an important influence on the microclimate, landscapes and soil
conditions and to a great extent determines specific road safety measures. At the same time
beauty relief may attract voyagers to use road network.

·   Climate
Moldova has a moderate continental climate, has transitive character between a soft climate of
the Western Europe and a continental climate of east areas and characterized by short mild
winters and long hot summers. The coldest month is January with average temperature ranging
from minus 3ºC to minus 5ºC. Spring weather is unstable and can be characterized by rapid
temperature rises. Summer is long, hot and dry. The warmest month is July, with average
temperature ranging from 19ºC to 22ºC and the maximum daily temperature frequently
exceeding 30oC. The average annual air temperature is 7.5-10.0ºC and average soil surface
temperatures are within the 10-12ºC range. The warm period lasts 146 to 180 days per year.
Sunny days account for 45-50% of the year.

Annual precipitation varies from 550 mm in the north of the country to 350 mm in the south and
falls mainly in the summer months as torrential rains, often accompanied by squalls and hail.
Monthly precipitation is subject of considerable to big fluctuations in comparison with annual
one. The maximum monthly precipitation varies in limits from 176 mm (town Comrat) up to 260
mm (town Cornesti). Summer precipitation is quite variable, ranging from monthly averages of
55-85 mm to 200-300 mm. About 18% of total precipitation falls as a mixture of rain and snow
during winter months. South of the country is more arid as compared to center and north.

·   Surface waters
The surface water resources of Moldova are mainly (90%) formed by the transit flow of the
Dniester (with a total length of 1,352 km and 657 km within the country), and Prut (with a total
length of 976 km and 695 km within the country) rivers. The water quality of the Dniester and
Prut rivers is generally considered as suitable for irrigation, recreation and drinking purposes
and used respectively.

Most of the internal rivers (providing about 10% of surface water resources) are small and only
nine have a length exceeding 100 km. The internal rivers network consists of nearly 3,300 water
courses with a total length of 16,000 km. Most of the internal rivers are canalized, with
regulating dams and flood protection dykes, and most are moderately or heavily polluted. The
main source of pollution of surface waters is improperly treated sewage, garbage sites and land
erosion.

There are a few natural lakes remaining in Moldova. About 3,500 reservoirs have been
established on the rivers, designated to trap sediments, provide water for irrigation, domestic
and industrial needs, and support fishery. Most of the water bodies are reservoirs constructed
on the small rivers which are regulated by weirs, built in cascade. They are an important local
resource for livestock watering, fishing, commercial fish farming, maintaining domestic waterfowl
and recreation.

The floodplains of many small internal rivers are highly exposed to flooding, due to climate and
landscapes characteristics, poor technical status of weirs and inadequate dam safety
management. Several cases of severe floods on small rivers have been reported over the last
decade.


                                               14

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




The network of small internal river-courses and relevant floodplains are important consideration
for the road sector as it is required protection of surface water and safety measures to prevent
floods as well as to protect road infrastructure.

·   Groundwater
About 90% of Moldova's groundwater resources relate to the deep aquifers. Deep groundwater,
especially from the Lower Baden Sarmat aquifer, underlying the entire country, is an important
source of water for domestic and industrial purposes. In some areas deep groundwater
resources are characterized by high levels of salt and fluoride content.

Shallow groundwater is present throughout the country's territory in recent Quaternary deposits
that are composed mostly of sand, sandstone, and occasionally, gravel. These shallow aquifers
are fed by precipitation and therefore are subject of pollution from the earth surface. At the
same time, this is a major source of drinking water for rural population: about 50% of the country
population relies on simple shallow dug wells. The shallow groundwater is highly vulnerable to
anthropogenic impacts and sources of water contamination are mainly linked with rural areas.
The range of natural and man-induced contaminants includes nitrates, fluorides and
microbiological indices. The quality of groundwater abstracted by population for drinking
purposes is particularly poor in central and southern parts of the country, where most of
groundwater samples do not comply with quality standards for chemical parameters.
Microbiological pollution is also common.

For road sector the groundwater level and its flow are important factors to be considered, as it
may significantly affect road stability and provoke contamination of drinking water wells.

·   Soils
Moldova posses excellent soils for agricultural production, and very little of land is left
uncultivated. The black soils (chernozems) comprising 75% of all agricultural land are the main
natural resource of Moldova. Continental climate and worm summer, vegetation type and soil
fauna have caused a substantial accumulation of carbon in the soil. Non-eroded chernozem
contains approximately 300 tons/ ha of carbon within upper 1 meter. Main types of country's
soil are presented in the table below.

                               Soils                                   Surface,           Share, %
                                                                    thousands ha
 Grey forest                                                             120                 3,6
 Forest soil, destroyed by ravines, landslides and erosion                 58                1,7
 Cernozem and its main subtypes                                          1865               56,3
 Cernozem, destroyed by ravines, landslides and erosion                  272                 9,9
 Alluvial soil                                                           263                11,6
 Other types of soil                                                     470                16,9
 Total                                                                   3 048              100

Rich soils and favorable climate support substantial and diverse agricultural production ranging
from wheat, corn, barley, tobacco, sugar beets, soybeans, and sunflower to fruits and grape.
Beef and dairy cattle, as well as pigs, sheep and poultry are raised mostly on a household
scale.

Moldova's economy is highly dependent on agricultural production and 57,7 per cent of its land
area is used for agriculture. In Soviet times the intensive exploitation of agricultural land and use
of ecologically harmful technologies have resulted in significant reduction of its productivity and
a destructive impact on soil. Condition of the soil is crucial for agriculture and is a basis for
development of a productive export-oriented agriculture and food-processing industry.


                                                 15

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




One of the most severe environmental problems in the country is progressive loss of topsoil:
approximately 2 million hectares of land are affected by erosion; estimate annual soil loss is 26
million tons. Such a quantity of lost topsoil contains 700,000 tons of humus, 50,000 tons of
nitrogen, 34,000 tons of phosphorus. Indirect damages from soil erosion refer to sedimentation
of water bodies, contamination of soil and groundwater by agro-chemicals washed out from the
hillsides, impairment of roads and hydro-engineering installations, etc. Along with heavy rains
being the main factor contributing to intensification of erosion processes, others include: big
share of arable land, deforestation, plugging along the slope, improper planning of road
network; insufficient use of vegetation planting, exaggerated share of several crops (e.g. corn,
sunflower) in crop rotations, tillage with use of heavy machinery.

The soil erosion pattern should be considered also for road network development to prevent and
minimize soil contamination and erosion both by ravines and lost of the rich top-soil.

·   Landslides
Due to the slope landscapes, clay soil profile and groundwater level the landslides are quite
common feature of Moldova's nature. The landscape most commonly occurs during the winter
and spring months due to increased precipitation rates, snow melt and soil saturation. If a
certain limit of soil wetness "slope" internal matrix forces of the subsoil is surpassed, gravity
forces will prevail and landslides may occur. Their occurrence is to some extent triggered by
earthquakes, and by soil disturbances that lead to compaction, subsidence and rising
groundwater tables. The latter takes place at building and road construction sites, under
intensive agriculture, deforestation, and where dams are leaking.

Landslides can occur as shallow slumps (1-2 meters) on which reforestation helps, and on
deeper slumps (up to 25 meters) on which reforestation may add to the problem. Landslides in
Moldova do not take the form of mudflows, and move at speeds not exceeding 2-3 m/hour.
Their size can be anything between 50 m2 and 10 km2. The danger concerns local displacement
which may do damage to buildings and other assets. Some estimates show that high landslide
incidence has a return period of 3-4 years. Most severely affected is the area between Nisporeni
and Balti, around Riscani, and the area North of Orhei (>1 landslide per 2 km2). The area
around Chisinau has 1 landslide per 2-3 km2. The highest degree landslide areas (3-5, 5-10
and 10-15% of surface covered by landslides) verge on Orhei, Balti, Ungheni and Calaras.
Average estimate landslides process is 15,000 landslides on 30,000 ha, at an annual growth
rate of 1000 ha.

Landslides pattern is very specific Moldova's feature required attention on designing and
construction phase to mitigate possible triggering of landslides and protect the roads.

·   Air Quality

Air pollution originates from a large number of local and external sources and has many
negative effects on the public health and the environment, e.g. acidification, eutrophication,
climate change, pollution, etc. The quality of the atmospheric air is determined by three major
sources of pollution: stationary sources (mainly the power and heat generation sector and the
industry); mobile sources (transport and agriculture machinery); and transboundary pollution.

The air quality concern in Moldova is big industrial towns, where most poor air quality is usually
registered. Average annual concentrations exceeded the national standards (maximum
allowable concentrations, MAC) is reported for: particulates (in Balti), nitrogen dioxide (in
Chisinau) and formaldehyde (in Balti, Chisinau and Tiraspol). The index of air pollution
integrating all six analyzed parameters is highest in the biggest agglomerations (Chisinau, Balti
and Tiraspol), with an absolute maximum in Balti. The general trend of air pollution level in the
main cities during the last five years is downward. The concentrations of sulfate and
hydrocarbonate reached a maximum in industrial areas (Ribnita, Camenca, Tiraspol). Chloride

                                                  16

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




practically did not show significant variation, which is an indicator of lack of specific pollution
sources in monitored areas. The highest concentrations of calcium and magnesium at the
Ribni a site is a clear indicator of pollution from the cement and building materials industries
located nearby.

Currently Moldova has 2,289 registered stationary sources, mainly in the energy and heat
generation sector but also in industry and services (including 529 petrol stations). According to
the official statistics, the total amount of pollutants from stationary sources in 2004 was 17,369
tons, including: particulates ­ 3,345 tons; sulfur dioxide - 2,005 tons; nitrogen oxides ­ 3,184
tons; carbon monoxide ­ 5,389 tons; others ­ 3,446 tons. These data do not include emissions
from Transnistria.

Road transport is the main air pollution source, accounting in 2004 for approximately 200,000
tons of emissions or some 90% of the total emissions (Transnistria not included). This share is
even larger in the big cities.

Following table1 represents dynamic of air pollution from the mobile sources in Moldova.

Year                         1995     1996   1997     1998    1999     2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Total emissions,            238.2 100.5 215.6 174.4 110.0 118.8 122.9 130.9                  180.0  200.0
thousand tons
of which:
Volatile Organic             41.6     16.5     39.2    29.6    19.2    20.7   22.2   12.9    13.7   14.1
Compounds
Nitrogen dioxide NO   2      19.8      7.0    25.6     13.4     9.1      9.9  10.7   15.1    16.2   17.4
Carbon monoxide CO          160.8     72.7 144.4 121.7         74.4    80.7   85.8   87.2    89.7   91.4


The road transport emissions depend on a number of factors such as the technical condition of
cars, state of the roads and/or quality of gasoline. The enforcement of new requirements for
gasoline (e.g. unleaded petrol and desulfurized diesel) contributed to the reduction of polluting
emissions. During the last years (1999-2005) the share of unleaded petrol in the total volume of
petrol imported has increased from 70% to 100%. At the end of 2005 some 430,000 motor
vehicles were registered in the country and the trend is still upward. The technical condition of
the cars has a significant influence on emissions. In Moldova, half of the fleet presently consists
of cars being in use for 10 years and more, while the number of new cars is relatively small. The
State Ecological Inspectorate, together with the road police, under the program of checking the
cars in traffic (about 15,000 cars in the year 2005) for exhaust gas emissions indicates that in
about 10% of cases emissions above the allowed limits are recorded (8% of gasoline cars and
15% of diesel cars did not comply with the emission standards and regulations).

·    Biologic and Forest Resources
Natural landscapes and biodiversity in Moldova are limited and due to severe human impact
(primarily land cultivation) they have been seriously degraded. Natural ecosystems cover no
more than 20% of the country; they are very fragmented and are under degradation status2. In
order to protect wide variety of remaining biodiversity Moldova has undertaken a number of
nature protection measures including establishing of natural reserves, development of relevant
policy, legislation and regulatory mechanisms, and others actions towards protection of
threatened species, habitats and landscapes.

However, a number of factors prevent efficient management of the natural resources. These
include: (i) insufficient public awareness about state of environment; (ii) illegal human activities;
(iii) lack of training and informational support for local administration, mangers of agro-industrial
enterprises and economic entities; and, (iv) low capacities of environmental, water and forest
authorities to sustainable manage the natural resources/ecosystems.



1Statistical Yearbook 2005. Chisinau, 2005
2Biological Diversity Conservation. National Strategy and Action Plan, 2002.

                                                       17

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                           Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Moldova borders the Mediterranean biogeographic zone in the south. The remainder of the
country occupies an intermediate zone between the continental Eurasian steppe to the east and
the European forest-steppe to the west. Additionally, there are small plots of meadows (in river
valleys), halophites (on salinized lands), hydrophytes (in wetland areas) and xerophites (on
rocks and dry clay slopes) which comprise the rest of the country's ecosystems diversity.
Geographic position, climate and landscape of Moldova provided conditions for the
development of a rich biodiversity. Moldova's biodiversity3 is represented by more than 6,720
flora species, including 3,400 algae and 1,200 fungi, and more than 16,540 fauna species,
including 461 species of vertebrate, 16,080 species of invertebrate, and 633 species of
protozoa.


The natural flora belongs to two zonal types, namely steppe and forest steppe vegetation.
According to geo-botanical classification the territory of Moldova is divided into three areas: the
European broadleaf-forest area, the Mediterranean forest area and the Euroasian steppe area.

The steppe zone covers plains and highlands situated to the south and east from the central
Codru Plateau and the Tigheci Hillocks. Besides, steppe vegetation occurs in northern part of
the country (the Bal i steppe). Almost all former steppe areas now are used for agriculture so
that only small plots of natural steppe communities can be found on steep hillsides or areas
affected by landslides.

The forest steppe zone includes forest communities, mostly located on hills, alternating with
steppe vegetation areas. The dominant forest species are English oak and durmast oak,
sometimes in association with beech. In the south, pubescent oak groves are present on
hillsides. Riverine forests made of willow and poplar is common in the river floodplains.

The occurrence and abundance of fauna is dependant to a great extent on vegetal
communities, which provide them food and shelter. The most common mammals inhabited in
Moldovan forests are: fallow deer, wild boar, fox, badger, squirrel, marten, and wild cat. The bird
species include oriole, magpie, hoopoe, nightingale, blackbird, etc. The steppe animal
communities comprise several species of rodents and birds (skylark, quail, and partridge). The
lakes, wetlands and marshes provide shelter and food to many birds, including migratory ones.
A number of rare and/ or endangered animal species are protected by law (116 species are
included in the Red Book of the Republic of Moldova, 2001).


According to the Land Cadastre, the forests covered 362,700 ha at the beginning of 2004
(10.7% of country's territory). The current forestation level is considered as insufficient for an
effective environmental balance. The area of forests per inhabitant in Moldova is 0.086 ha per
inhabitant as compared to 0.3 ha/inh. in Romania; 0.4 ha/inh. in Bulgaria, not to speak about
countries like Sweden (2.5 ha/inh.) or Finland (3.7 ha/inh.). Moldovan forests consist basically of
communities of broad-leaved species (98%) dominated by oak (143,800 ha) and acacia
(131,000 ha).


A large number of forest protection strips have been established in the past sixty years to
combat soil erosion provoked by wind. They have been planted on agricultural lands, along river
banks, along the roads and around cities and industrial areas. However, these protection strips
have recently been subjected to substantial illegal harvesting primarily for firewood and other
wood products due to rural poverty. By 1994 areas covered by protection strips decreased by
75%. Continuous degradation of the forest cover, including protection strips, has contributed
significantly to increase of aridity, soil erosion and loss of topsoil.



3 Biological Diversity Conservation. National Strategy and Action Plan, 2002.

                                                        18

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Understanding of biodiversity importance for the country's ecological stability is one of the key
factors to be considered in the road sector. The special attention should be paid to conservation
of such natural habitats as forests, meadows and steppe during road construction, maintenance
and traffic.    In particular, it relates to migratory ways which have to be considered while
developing the road sector.

·   Endogenous species and Natural State Protected Areas
The state is obliged to determine rare and threatened species inhabited in the country, and to
develop and implement a variety of protection measures. Generally, the share of protected
species in relation to total number of species is very high in Moldova. Of a total number of 1832
vascular plants found in Moldova, 96 species (or about 5%) are protected by state in one or
another form. As for fauna, 11 species from total number of inhabited 70 species of mammals, 7
species of reptiles (from total number of 14) and 13 species of fish (from total inhabited number
of 82) are under state protection.

The state has developed a system for protection of important and threatened habitats and
landscapes. Between 1962 and 1998 the surface of protected areas has increased from 3,700
ha to 66,500 ha. The Natural State Protected Areas Fund comprises 310 sites with total surface
66,487 ha, or 1.96% of country's territory. Most protected areas in Moldova are scientific and
landscape reserves (52% and 29%, respectively). Others are: natural reserves of medical plants
(7.4%), natural forest reserves (4.2%) and geologic and paleontology nature monuments
(4.0%). The share of protected areas represented by steppe and meadow vegetation, and
landscape architecture monuments is very small.

The categories and surface areas protected by state4 are indicated in the table below.

Categories of natural objects and complexes                                  Number           Area (ha)
Scientific reserves                                                             5              19,378
Nature monuments, including:                                                   130              2,907
      Geological and paleontological                                            86              2,682
      Hydrological                                                              31              100
      Botanical                                                                 13              125
Natural reserves, including:                                                    63              8,009
      Forests                                                                   51              5,001
      Medical plants                                                            9               2,796
      Complexes                                                                 3               212
Landscape reserves                                                              41             34,200
Resource reserves                                                               13              523
Multi-purpose management areas, including:                                      34              1,030
      Typical areas of steppe vegetation                                        5               148
      Typical areas of meadow vegetation                                        25              675
      Protective forest belts                                                   2               208
Botanical gardens                                                               1               105
Dendrological gardens                                                           2               104
Garden architecture monuments                                                   20              191
Zoological gardens                                                              1                20
TOTAL                                                                          310             66,487


In spite of range of measures taken towards conservation and expanding of natural areas
protected by state, their present state is generally poor, except natural reserves that are
maintained more or less adequately.




4Biological Diversity Conservation. National Strategy and Action Plan, 2002.

                                                       19

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




2.2.    Socio-Economic environment


·   Macro-economic and poverty features
After a period of steady economic growth throughout the 1970s, growth rates began to decline
in the 1980s and fell sharply after 1990. This occurred as a result of the disruption of the
centrally planned system and price liberalization in trade relations within the former Soviet
Union. With independence, the Republic of Moldova began facing a set of political, economic,
environmental and social problems. The process of state building and self-determination was
going in a context of social and economic crisis, and radical transformation of the economic
system. A switch from the centrally planned economy to the market economy was executed
energetically in all main areas, including price liberalization, foreign trade and investment,
opening up the internal market, mass privatization, land reform and formation of a new banking
system. However the consequences of the reforms, and their effect on social development and
environment were not accurately predicted; no account was taken of the low level of
preparedness of the people and of economic agents to live and act in the changing
circumstances. Thus the practical results of the reform to a large extent failed to meet
expectations of society and government.

The mass privatization of the state property did not justify the aspiration in the emergence of a
new class of owners interested in the development of production by increasing competitiveness;
renovating and modernizing fixed assets, comply with the environmental obligation, attracting
investment and quality management.

In 2000, the Moldovan economy moved onto a growth trajectory. From 2000 to 2003, GDP rose
by 24,1%, industrial output by 54,1%, and investments in fixed capital by 21,5%. The economy
entered the period of upturn with a new structure. As a result of implementation of reforms, the
non-state sector became dominant. In 2002, its share in GDP was 75%, with a share of over
80% in industrial manufacturing, over 95% in retail trade, almost 100% in the agrarian sector,
and 54% in the sector of paid services. The correlation between major economic sectors
remains unfavourable ­ agriculture in 2002 accounted for 21,0% of GDP and nearly half of all
employed in the economy (49,6%), industry accounted for 17,3% of GDP and a bit more than
one tenth of the employed (11,4%). However, economic stabilisation and growth was not
reflected in improving the environmental management.

Differentiation of the economic potentials of the capital and regions is caused by the
degradation of industry and infrastructure of smaller cities during the 1990 crisis, and by the low
efficiency of the agrarian sector in regional economies, resulting in an absence of necessary
conditions and resources for development, including environmental consideration. The rural
communities are very significant poverty epicenters, which generates environmental concerns
with impacts on the population health and well-being, which results in increase of rural poverty
driven by the environmental cycle. Moldova is one of the poorest countries in Europe, with a per
capita income of US$543 and over half the population live on from one to a few US dollar
equivalent per day.

The social crisis was even deeper and more dramatic than the economic one. With large-scale
release of labour from the economy, high inflation and falling real state expenditures for social
needs, the losses of the population were limited not only to narrowing income resources and
declining purchasing power, but also to a diminished ability to enjoy social assistance from the
state, in the form of benefits and free social services.

Poverty in the 1990s grew in association with reductions in national output, investment,
employment, and degradation of physical and biological environment, damaging of
infrastructures, neglecting of environmental obligations and decrease of real income of the
population. As with many countries in transition, poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon, but


                                                  20

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




because of its geographical and geo-economic and geo-political location, Moldova has specific
features, which have amplified its vulnerability to poverty. These include regional economic
crises, sensitivity to natural disasters, political and social instability, territorial separation, etc.

Poverty has been increasing during the past decade due mainly to the drastic slowdown in
remunerative economic activity, coupled in the countryside with several years of poor harvests.
The degree of poverty has been also affected by recession in education, health and other public
services. Poverty is the most severe in rural areas of Moldova where the share of poor people is
23.3% as compared to 6.9% in Chisinau and 16.8% in other cities of Moldova.

One of the most severe economic problems is the growing gap between the living standards of
the urban and rural populations. In 1998 the average per capita income of urban population was
23% as much as the country's average, while in rural areas it was 13% less. Within 1994 -1998
the difference of income between urban and rural people increased from 23% to 34%. In 1998
about 20% of rural families lived in poverty while only about 11% ensured more or less sufficient
living.

·   Population and demography
The current demographic situation in Moldova is a product of both long and painful transition
(resulted in economic decline, poverty and social exclusion of large population groups), and a
number of other social, political, behavioral and cultural factors.

According to survey performed in October 2004, the country's population is 3.388 million
excluding the Transnistra region. About 39% of population lives in urban areas. The largest city
is the capital Chisinau with a population of about 700,000. Other large cities are Tiraspol, Balti
and Bender.

Moldova is one of the most densely populated countries in the region with 128 inh/km2 but with
a marginal population growth. In 1996, the share of rural and urban population stabilized at 54%
and 46%, respectively. The trend of urban population growing now seems to be reversing as a
result of diminishing employment opportunities in towns.

The birth rate diminished significantly as compared to the early 1990's. In 2004, the birth rate
was 11.3, while the mortality rate reached 12.3. At present, the natural population growth
also shows a negative value (-1.0). It is also worth to mention that mortality rate has a
growing tendency; this indicator is higher for manhood as compared to womanhood and much
higher in countryside than in urban areas.

In 2004 the economically active population was 1.433 million what showed for the year 2004, a
3% decrease as compared to the previous year. The official number of economic emigrants is
345,000 persons, which makes up 24% of the total active population over 15 years old. Two
thirds (67%) of the economic emigrants are men, 69% are rural residents.


In 2004 the number of unemployed people exceeded 116,000. In 2003 the general
unemployment rate was 8.1%, as compared to 7.9%; it was reportedly higher in urban (11.9%)
than in rural areas (5.0%). There are clear gender disparities for unemployment (men - 10.0%;
women - 6.3%) however, among young people (15-24 years) it has a downward trend (from
22.3% in 1999 to 19.7% in 2004). In 2004 the share of unemployed young population was
26.5%.

·   Land-use
According to Land Cadastre the agricultural lands occupy 2 284 951 h , that makes 75,0 %
from the total land surface. Forests occupy 394 411 h , or 2,9 % from the total surface. The
overall land-use pattern in Moldova is reflected in the table below.


                                                    21

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Land-use        Total                                            Including:
                            Agriculture     Forests       Wetlands        Waters        Ravines Landslides
in ha          3048123        2284951       394411          19669         67922           7695    24207
in %             100            75,0          12,9           0,64          2,23           0,25     0,79


Current land ownership is characterized by three major categories: (i) agricultural enterprises
(approximately 1,200 per 1,000,000 ha); (ii) farmlands resulting from privatization after 1991
(300,000 per 500,000 ha), and (iii) homestead lands (1,000,000 on 350,000 ha)

·   Transport and road infrastructure
In Moldova the structure of transport is disproportionate: the share of road transport in goods
and passengers transportation is 88%; 11% are transported by rail, and 1% by other types of
transport (mainly air and water ones). During last 15 years the transports evolution followed the
general economic decline. Increased economic activity starting in 2000 entailed the transport
growth. The share of road transport in the total transport structure mostly increased at the
expense of steady growth of transport units.

Increase of road transport units in the Republic of Moldova in 1990-2004 is shown in the table
below5.

Transport units                               1990              1995             2000          2004
·   Lorries                                   76910             59888            61689         79387
·   Buses                                     11035             9181             14023         21853
·   Cars                                      208984            165941           238380        330479


Road density in Moldova (2,41 measured per 1000 population and 0,31 km measured per
square km) is two times as less as in neighboring countries - Romania (6,59 and 0.65,
respectively) and Ukraine (5,6 and 0,45, respectively). More than 70% of the country's road
network is mostly poor rural roads. It was shown that Moldovan farmers (particularly in the
central and southern parts of the country) are unable to sale about half of their products due to
poor access the market places, or lack of road access of wholesalers to the settlements, and
also due to inadequate road conditions. About 40 settlements have no access to the national
road network and, during wet weather and in winter, are temporary isolated from the rest of
country. In 2002 Social Assessment performed by the WB in 35 rural communities, showed that
respondents mentioned poor road conditions as a second severe problem faced by their
community (after the need for potable water)6.

In contrast with the growth of vehicles number, the road network remained almost unchanged
as indicated in the table7 below. The financial resources allocated for road maintenance and
traffic security are desperately low and did not exceed 7-10% of the necessary investments.

Type of road                                1990            1995           2000           2004     20068
Total roads                                 10300           9400           9400           9332     10537
·   including asphalt roads                 8970            8900           8800           8905     5349
Main roads                                  2800            2800           2800           3325     3665
Local roads                                 6530            6600           6600           6007     6886


In 2002 the conditions of national roads were evaluated on a stretch of about 2,000 km, and
obtained results may be extrapolated to the entire national road network. The evaluation


5State of Environment of the Republic of Moldova, 2005
6Moldova: Transport StrategyUpdate With Emphasis on the Road Sector, December 2002, World Bank
7State of Environment of the Republic of Moldova, 2005
8Data for year 2006 is from the State Road Administration, www.asd.md

                                                        22

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




showed that in 1992 about 70% of the road network was in good or fair condition and only 30%
of roads were poor; in 1998 only 45% of roads were good or fair and 55% was poor or
extremely poor. At present the situation with road conditions severely changed: only 30% is
good or fair and 70% of the network is poor or extremely poor. 78% of the national roads and
88% of the local roads have exhausted their exploitation capacities and are technically obsolete.
This very explains their exponential deterioration over last and coming years.

In 2006 length of public roads slightly increased (see table above) however their quality have
deteriorated. Presently, length of trunk-roads is 1075 km, republican roads ­ 2590 km and local
roads ­ 6886 km. Types of national road pavement are distributed as follows: asphalt ­ 2753
km, concrete ­ 437 km, bituminous ­ 214 km, macadam ­ 261 km. Type of pavement of local
roads (total length ­ 6866 km) are distributed as follows: asphalt ­ 2596 km, concrete ­ 46 km,
bituminous ­ 468 km, macadam ­ 3161 km, earth ­ 595 km9.

·   Territorial-Administrative Structures
In conformity with territorial-administrative reform after the year 2003, Moldova is divided into 32
raions, Autonomous Territorial Unit Gagauzia (ATU) and the breakaway region of Transnistria
(whose status is still disputed). There are 5 municipalities (Chisinau, Balti, Comrat, as well as
Tighina/Bender and Tiraspol situated in Transnistria), 65 towns, and 1615 communities and
villages on the territory of Moldova. The municipalities are administered separately from the
raions.

2.3.    Cultural and Historical environment


·   Nature as a patrimony
The natural patrimony of the Republic of Moldova includes important natural sites and
picturesque landscapes, which represent an intrinsic value but also a potential tourism resource.
Many of representative sites have been offered a protection status (one of the 12 categories of
natural protected areas). About 15,000 historical and cultural monuments have been identified
so far in Moldova dating from different historical époques. Out of those, 5698 sites are included
in the official Register of monuments under state protection, including 891 ecclesiastic buildings,
two medieval fortresses (Tighina and Soroca), 17 castles and parks, 52 cave monasteries, and
about 700 urban architectural monuments, and a large number of archeological sites, some of
them of international significance.

In the context of natural patrimonial site the road sector may consider historical heritage, tourist
sites and scenic natural beauty for further development.

·   Ethnicity
Moldovans constitute a majority in the country (64,5% of the total population). Ukrainians and
Russians make up 13,8% and 13,0%, respectively. The rest are mostly Gagauzians and
Bulgarians. Within the rural population the share of native Moldovans is higher. The Gagauzians
mostly live in south of the country and are administratively autonomous. The Russians and
Ukrainians are mainly concentrated in major cities and the Transnistria region. Besides, the
population of a few villages in the north is practically fully represented by Ukrainians.

Consideration of minority's heritage and culture may be important in some section of roads
under further improvement of the overall road sector in Moldova.

·   Culture
The Republic of Moldova has a long history of cultural traditions in the field of cultural
infrastructure, education, art, music and folklore. The cultural fabric of the country had been


9State Road Administration, www.asd.md

                                                  23

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




developing over a long period as a result of a number of factors including ethnic heterogeneity,
impact of foreign influence (Turkish, Greek, and Slavic), western media, a high degree of
ideological inculcation, and a high percentage of rural people. Changes that took place during
the transition period have brought some modifications into the structure of society. The rural
traditions in folk arts and crafts represent a cultural expression of the fundamental ethnic values
of the Moldovan nation and contribute to maintenance of its national identity. The revitalization
and development of these spheres is fundamentally important. Although valued, products made
by local craftsmen such as knitwear, embroidery, carpeting, artistic weaving and ceramics have
no market in the country because of the low purchasing power of the population.

For the road sector it is important to consider local values and sites occupied by local craftsmen
in order to provide access to market places and incorporate cultural elements as overall road
design and beauty.

·   Health and Education10
In Moldova average life expectancy (70.7 years for female and 63.2 years for male) is one of the
lowest in Europe. Cardiovascular diseases are the single major cause of death and the rate is
higher for manhood. Children's health in general has deteriorated. Underfeeding affects
substantial part of population but the most severely - children. Infant mortality is high, and is
three times as much as the average in European. The rate of infectious diseases is also high
(cholera, measles and smallpox) and the index of gastrointestinal diseases is the highest in
Europe. The incidence of syphilis has increased 10,6-fold between 1990 and 1997. HIV/AIDS
cases have increased from 47 reported in 1996 to 408 cases a year later. The growth of number
of cardiovascular diseases, stroke, rheumatism and diabetes shows a real threat especially
among young people. About 8% of the population suffers from health problems caused by
excessive alcohol consumption. Average annual growth of registered drug addiction is 30%.

In 1989 the literacy level of the adult population was 96,4%. The share of adult population with
higher and/or secondary education was about 70%.

·   Relationship with Natural Resource Base
Poverty mostly has stricken the rural population which has to rely on the land resource base to
survive. The land provides rural families with daily food and surplus food for making living. The
groundwater resources provide water for domestic use. Local surface water resources (ponds,
reservoirs, small rivers) are strongly affected by soil erosion, contaminated runoff from the earth
surface, waste water discharges and unauthorized waste disposals/ dumps. Nevertheless, they
remain an important local resource for livestock watering, fishing, commercial fish farming,
maintaining domestic waterfowl, and recreation, especially children. Share of grazing areas is
limited in the most of villages, and local authorities usually designate for this purpose the less
productive lands, including road surroundings. Due to lack of pastures other areas such as
forests, wetlands and roadside plantations are often under grazing pressure. Forests and even
individual trees are important sources of firewood and local building materials. In forested areas
mushrooms and flowers, some which are rare, are collected for sale to get additional home
income. Forests provide a source of medical plants and materials for basket weaving. Clay and
sand deposits, and reed if located closely to the village, are a source for building materials in
villages.

All aforementioned aspects shall be considered in development of the road sector in Moldova.




10National Human Development Report, UNDP, 1998.

                                                  24

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




3.      Policy, legal and regulatory framework for environmental and
road sector


3.1.    National Policy and Regulatory Frameworks


National environmental and road sector policy and regulatory frameworks were analyzed on the
three-levels basis documents (i) environmental, road and other associated strategies, programs,
policies and concepts, (ii) legislation and (iii) specific by-law regulations (standards,
requirements, rules). The most emphasis was placed on Environmental Impact Assessment and
Ecological Expertise procedures and requirements which were described in separate sub-
chapter.

·   Programs, Policies & Concepts
Government of the Republic of Moldova approved several national strategies and programs
related to environmental protection and sustainable development both in the field of
environmental protection and roads construction, operation and maintenance. Some of them
may be relevant to the proposed operations.

EU-Moldova Action Plan, 2005, presumes work out and implementation of the national
transport strategy, including development of transport infrastructure (item 57) and
implementation of selected measures and reforms in the road transport sector (item 58).

Concept of Organization and Development of Automobile Transport in the Republic of
Moldova, 2006, determines and establishes complex of priorities, strategic goals and priority
actions towards development of passenger automobile transport until 2010.               As a basic
principles of economic, social and cultural system of Moldova, the system of automobile
transport aims at satisfaction of consumers' needs in the field of transport on a qualitative level
in conditions of safety of transportation, road traffic and environment, as well as complying with
technological requirements.

Concept of Forming and Development of National Network of International
Transportation Corridors, 2002, allows to consider possibility to finance the development of
national transportation network infrastructure while approving of state budgets. Tentative
estimates show that in period 2001-2015 on major overhaul the Moldavian sites of the
international road corridors will be about 174 million US dollars. Through territory of Moldova will
pass VII and IX all-European transport corridors. Within the framework of European agreement
on territory of Moldova will also pass 4 international highways of international road network "E":
including road directions West-East      58 (Vienna-Bratislava ­ Zvolen ­ Cosite - Uzhgorod -
Mucacevo - Halmey - Suceava - Iasi - Chisinau ­ Odessa - Nikolaev - Kherson - Melitopol -
Taganrog ­ Rostov-on-Don and 3 connecting roads:            577 (Poltava - Kirovograd ­ Chisinau -
Giurgiulesti - Galati ­ Slobozia);     581 (Marasesti - Tecuci ­ Albita - Leuseni - Chisinau ­
Odessa);     583 (Roman - Iasi ­ Balti - Mogilev-Podolsk - Vinnitsa ­ Zhitomir).

In relation to socio-economic issues the Concept declares that implementation of large-scale
transport projects will promote attraction private investments, including foreign ones, which
volume can be estimated from 3 up to 8 million US dollars one year.

Concept describes some ecological aspects for developing road corridors and states that "...
creation of the national modern network of international transportations must significantly
reduce negative impact of vehicles on the respective territories". Maintenance of appropriate
traffic conditions on highways, standardized speed, exception of delays and unforeseen
changes of a traffic mode will cause significant reduction of harmful emissions into air. For the
account of constructing lines of highways outside of localities, regulations of building in a zone

                                                 25

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                            Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




of their influence, observance corresponding parameters in the plan and a longitudinal structure
considerably. Harmful influence of noise from traffic of motor transport will decrease. In case, if
settlements are situated close to highways, anti-noise barriers should be necessarily built up in
them.

Last years preparation of several road and transport infrastructure programs and strategies had
been initiated and drafted.

At the initiative of the President the "Moldovan Roads in the 21-st Century Program" was
developed. The main objectives of that Program are to protect Moldova's core national road
network from further deterioration and create an adequate institutional and financial framework
for the sustainable development of road infrastructure and transport services11. In order to
support the program the draft "Road Transport Infrastructure Sector Strategy" was developed
by SRA. The objectives of the strategy are: (i) to improve conditions of the existing public road
network; (ii) to establish the financial and technical environment to bring the road network to the
level of European Standards; and (iii) to develop an express road network in stages, based on
detailed feasibility studies. In a short-term, the strategy aims to achieve (i) rehabilitation and
maintenance of the road network to stop its exponential degradation; and (ii) change relevant laws
towards infusion the road administration autonomous status, with its own financial sources. The
long-term strategy (2004-2013) envisages to bring the main national road network (approximately
400 km) to the level of European standards and to bring the remaining national road network (2000
km) as well as the main network of local roads (750 km) to adequate and maintainable condition. It
also foresees the gradual development of an express road network for the country's main axis, in
correlation with internal and transit traffic growth. This strategy is sound and its implementation
should start as soon as possible12. The main provisions drafted will be applied for preparation of
Transport Sector Program for 2008-2017 which will include a Transport Sector Strategy and a
prioritized 10-year Transport Investment and Expenditure Plan.

Concept of New Environmental Policy of the Republic of Moldova, 2001.

Main objectives of a new environmental policy are: (i) to co-ordinate the environmental policy
priorities with socio-economic changes in Moldova and with global and regional tendencies,
programs and plans, (ii) to prevent and reduce the effect of economic and any other activities on
the environment and natural resources and (iii) to ensure ecological safety of population. There
is no specific aspect related to the road and transportation is included.

Concept of Sustainable Development of Localities in Moldova, 2001.
The main goal of Concept is to promote introducing of principles of sustainable development in
the process of elaboration of documentation on town-planning and territorial development and
its implementation inter alia by means of protection, conservation or evaluation of the national
heritage value. Main objectives of the Concept are: establishment of favorable and stimulating
conditions for settlements development; creation of modern living environment for all categories
of population; improving of architectural and town-planning appearance of settlements; applying
relevant international standards; implementing the integration of all sector programs at micro-
and macro territorial levels; providing for the economic, social and environmental linkages
between cities and their surrounding regions; involving population in decision-making process in
the field of town-planning, territorial development and environmental protection.

Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, 2003-2007.
The strategy was elaborated to ensure the welfare and decent living conditions for the citizens
by means of a sustainable economic growth. Among major objectives of the Strategy are to
achieve acceptable social-economic level and increase welfare of the population. The
foundation of this Strategy can only be a sound and solid infrastructure. While infrastructure and

11Moldova: Transport Strategy Update with Emphasis on the Road Sector, World Bank, December 2002
12Moldova: Transport Strategy Update with Emphasis on the Road Sector, World Bank, December 2002

                                                          26

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




in particular transport cannot claim to be a cost-effective policy instrument for the redistribution
of welfare to the poor, it reduces absolute poverty mainly by increasing economic efficiency - by
lowering costs and prices and enhancing opportunities. Efficiency improvements in transport
investments and infrastructure management could free up scarce resources and make the
country's traditional sectors more competitive and enhance the country's comparative
advantages in trade and transit traffic.

National Program on Securing of Ecological Safety and Action Plan, 2003.
Ecological safety is such a state of environment when majority of natural      and anthropogenic
impacts do not cause changes which immediately or afterwards may result in degradation of
environmental ecosystems and affect adversely on human health. As compounds of ecological
safety are considered sectoral impacts (industry, agriculture, power engineering, transport etc.),
general types of activity (transboundary contamination, wastes generation), extraordinary
situations (floods, landslides) and organizational activities (monitoring, risk assessment,
ecological insurance, prevention and warning system, international and regional cooperation)
and described actions to be taken to secure ecological safety.

·   Basic legislation (Laws)

Law on Environmental Protection, 1993, amended in 1997
It is a basic law that provides general framework for the environmental protection in Moldova
and options for sustainable development. It established a legal foundation for developing
normative acts and regulations applicable to different environmental media in order to inter alia
protect land, underground resources, water and air from chemical, physical and other pollution,
and also from other impacts. The law sets the basic principles of environmental protection,
including the priority of environmental goals, mandatory environmental compliance,
environmental liability, prohibition of implementation of any programs and projects without a
positive conclusion of the state ecological expertise and concurrence by population in the area
of impacts, payments for use of natural resources and charges for non-compliance with
environmental protection requirements. According to the Law the projects related to
construction, re-construction and modernisation of public facilities are subjects of ecological
expertise procedures. The Law also stipulates that irrespective of type of ownership, economic
agents are obliged to obtain permit from ecological expertise for use of natural resources and
extend it in a fix term; take measures toward prevention of landslides, soil erosion and
compaction, introduce low-wasting and resources-saving technologies.

Water Code, 1993, revised and amended in 2003
The Code contains provisions to ensure sustainable water use, protect water resources from
pollution, contamination and depletion as well as prevent negative impacts of polluted waters on
human health. It established that sitting, design, construction and launching into operation of
any new or reconstructed facilities and other objects is permitted only after completion of a state
sanitary-epidemiological expertise and only when such facilities have water purification and
pollution prevention devices.

Land Code, 1991 revised in 1993, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000

It is one of the basic law regulates land relations in the Republic of Moldova. It proclaims
protection of land to have higher priority than other types of land use activity. The Law
stipulates that the State shall financially and administratively support inter alia development of
various types of effective land management and use, including those aimed at reducing land
pollution by waste, and research regarding interrelationships between environmental and land
protection. The Law requires routine coordination with a national environmental authority
regarding any plans for land development and construction, instruct all industrial, communal and
other land users and owners to prevent any negative impacts of agricultural lands. The Code
establishes different types of land based on the purpose of their use and mandates respective


                                                27

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




protection regimes and stipulate that land protection measure shall be elaborated and
implemented at planning, design, construction and operation or various facilities and
technologies. The Code prohibits launching into operation any facilities and technologies that do
not protect land and also stipulates that in order to protect land quality, environment and health
of people, maximum permissible concentrations of chemical, biological and other active
substances in soil shall be elaborated and approved by separate legislation. The Law stipulates
that while designing, siting, constructing and putting into operation new and re-constructed
objects as well as installing of new technologies affecting land conditions, actions directed at
land protection must be considered and taken. Put into operation objects and use of
technologies that do not ensure land protection against degradation and damage are prohibited

Forest Code, 1996

The Code is one of the basic legal act focusing on creation of legal grounds for different aspects
of forests management and included: provisions for management of forest and hunting funds,
use of forest lands, rights and obligation of forest managers and forest users, forest production,
taxes, charges, financing and economic stimulus, reproduction of forests; protection of forest
fund, state register, cadastre, monitoring, etc. The Law stipulates that design, placing,
constructing and putting into operation new and re-constructed objects that may adversely affect
forest conditions and rehabilitation, activities aiming at forest protection should be compulsory
envisaged and implemented in coordination with central forest protection and environment
protection agencies. Such projects are implemented only on the basis of requirements provided
by the Law on ecological expertise and environmental impact assessment.


Law on Air Protection, 1997
The main objectives of the Law are maintenance of clean air, improvement of air quality,
prevention and mitigation of harmful physical, chemical, biological and radiological impacts on
air quality, and accordingly protection of human health and environment. The law establishes
competence of various ministries and departments in the field of air protection; participation of
juridical and physical persons in actions directed at air pollution prevention; normative
(standards) of air quality; regulation of measures to be undertaken toward protection of air
against pollution, etc.

The Law on Regime of Harmful Products and Substances, 1997, amended in 2002
The Law establishes role and responsibilities of the Government, Ministry of Healthcare,
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, State Emergency
Department and other ministries and local authorities, and describes the regime of harmful
products and substances (licensing, production, storing, transportation, use, registration,
neutralization, import and export).

Law on Wastes of Production and Consumption, 1997
The Law provides basic principles in the field of waste management. In conformity with the Law
on Environmental Protection this Law regulates management of wastes generated during the
process of production and consumption, and aims to reduce and prevent environmental
pollution.



Law on State Land-Tenure Regulations, State Land Survey and Land Monitoring, 1992

The Law establishes main principles of state land-tenure regulations: use of land resources for
society's benefit; introducing of advanced methods of economic activity, and functions of the
State Land-Tenure Regulations Service: substantiation and delimitation of land plots'
boundaries; development of projects on land demarcation for its reder into use; regulation of
existent lands' boundaries, delineation of plots and preparing of documents for land render into
use, etc


                                                 28

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Law on the Payment for Pollution of the Environment, 1998.

The goals of this Law are to create such a system of economic activity that makes unprofitable
any damage to environment, encourage introducing of non-polluted technologies, undertake
measures aimed at minimizing volumes of pollutants emissions and discharges into
environment and generation of production wastes, stimulation of activities oriented to
improvement of environmental quality.

Law on Sanitary-Epidemiological Protection of the Population, 1993, amended in 1996,
2004.

The Law indicates that planning and construction should envisage a creation the most favorable
conditions for habitation and health of population, improvement of localities, prevention and
liquidation of harmful effect on environment on human health. Land plots acquisition for various
objects and putting them into operation are permitted only on the basis of resolution of the state
sanitary-hygienic entities.

Law on Permitting of Certain Kinds of Activities, 2001
The Law aims at ensuring of the state control over compliance with requirements and conditions
to be adhered while fulfilling certain activities. It determines legal, organizational and economical
basis for certain kinds of activities and establishes kinds of activities which require permits. The
list of activates liable to permitting inter alia includes design of all kinds of buildings and
reconstruction works.

Regulation on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision Making and Access
to Justice in Environmental Matters, 2000.
The Law regulates different aspects of informational management, including relations between
providers and consumers of information; principles, rules and regulations of informational
exchange and provision for that; aspects of personal requests and confidentiality; protection of
rights of providers and consumers of information.

Law on Quality in Construction, 1996.
The Law determines juridical, technical, economic and institutional aspects related to the
construction activities by juridical and physical persons, their obligations and rights related to the
quality in construction. The Law stipulates that construction, modernisation, strengthening,
repair/ renovation are implemented only in accordance with project documentation worked out
by physical and juridical persons authorised for such kinds of works and verified by authorised
specialists in the field; design and construction of buildings/ and production used in
constructional material is implemented by physical and juridical persons licensed for activity in
the field; formal acceptance of facilities is implemented by investor in a presence of designer
and executor of the work and/or appointed representatives of above specialists in conformity
with a law. As interference into construction are considered actions on rehabilitation,
strengthening, re-construction, enlargement, partial destruction and repair which are
implemented only on the basis of a special project which was elaborated in the established
order and co-ordinated with initial project designer or according to resolution of a technical
expertise carried out by authorised expert.

Law on Roads, 1995
The Law stipulates that design of roads and carrying out the road works are implemented in
accordance with norms and technical rules elaborated and approved in established order and
while designing of roads their functional indications, technical category; economic, social and
defence factors of the country; conditions of rational use of land and environment protection,
town-planning issues and territorial development are considered. The Law also stipulates that
alienation of lands for road construction as well as order of compensation for damage to
allotments owners is implemented in accordance with a law.


                                                    29

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Law on Transport, 1997
The Law stipulates that that transport enterprises and facilities shall ensure sustainable use of
land, prevent water-logging, reduction of land quality and soil contamination, prevent erosion
and landslides and comply with environmental legislation. It instructs transport enterprises to
protect the environment from negative impacts of transport activities, ensure compliance with
environmental legislation, standards, and labor norms as well as certify transport activities and
facilities in accordance with applicable international standards. The Law prohibits sitting of
transport facilities, which handle explosives, flammables, radioactive, poisonous and toxic
substances, close to residential areas and protected natural territories. Appropriate minimum
distance shall be approved by special legislation and norms.

Motor Transport Code, 1998
The goal of the Code is regulation activities in the field of motor transport and determination of
rights, obligations and responsibilities of transport entities (agents), providing motor
transportation services, as well as physical and juridical persons used such services.

·   Government Decision, Instructions, Standards

Government Decision on Approval and Introducing of the State Sanitary-Epidemiological
Rules and Standards for enterprises producing asphalt-concrete mixtures, 2006. The
Rules aims at improvement of sanitary-epidemiological control over this activity. Requirements
towards enterprises making asphalt and concrete production and are obligatory for execution by
all economic agents irrespective of administrative submission, ownership and way of managing
and cover stages of designing, construction, reconstruction and operation are established.

Government Decision on increasing of exploitation safety of buildings and
constructions, installations and pipe-lines which are sources of a heightened risk, 1996.
In relation to the field may be mentioned next items: continuous supervision over technical
conditions of economic objects that are sources of a heightened risk during their operation/
exploitation must be ensured; central administration and local public authorities which supervise
economic objects exercise control over their technical conditions during their operation/
exploitation; works on expertise, design and rehabilitation of objects of a heightened risk are
financed at the expense of economic objects funds. The risk category enterprises are defined
and include ­ entity that may have accidental chemical pollution risk, entities that have
explosion or flammable substances, deposits of oil, liquid and solid combustible substances,
etc.

Government Decision on verifying of projects and executing of construction works,
technical expertise of projects and constructions, 1996. While projects verifying, it is
compulsory to ensure minimum level of quality envisaged in normative documents requirements
in force. In the contract investor may set higher level of quality that it was implied in normative
documents. Projects of all capital and temporary constructions shall be a subject of verification
in dependence on their importance; projects on modernisation, changes, re-construction,
strengthening, repair and engineering also are subject of verifying. Works on repair of non-
supporting or decorating constructions of any degree of importance (roads, paths etc.) in case
they do not deteriorate conditions of construction and do not affect on resistance are not a
subject of verification.

Government Decision on state sanitary-epidemiological supervision in the Republic of
Moldova, 1995, provides sanitary-epidemiological supervision over carrying out of activities and
adherence to sanitary-hygienic norms and rules.




                                                30

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Sanitary Rules on atmospheric air pollution prevention in localities, 1998, prohibits siting,
constructing and putting into operation objects that are sources of air pollution on the territories
where registered level of air pollution already exceeds admissible values.

State Standard GOST 17.2.3.01-86. Nature protection. Atmosphere. Air quality control
regulations for settlements provide the rules for air quality monitoring. The number of
monitoring points is defined in a view of population number, the area when settlement is
situated, as well as a network of roads with intensive vehicles traffic and their arrangement on
the towns' territory. The Standard includes also the program and terms of supervision, sampling
rule and characterization of air pollution.

Temporal Construction Norms 9-79. Guide for environment and land tenure protection
measures for reconstruction of motor roads in Moldova, 1979. The Guide include: (i)
general provisions, (ii) methods of reconstruction of roads in a plan and longitudinal structure;
(iii) reconstruction of road stretches in settlements; (iv) methods of hydro-meteorological
substantiation and water drainage from the roads, (v) actions towards prevention of noise
arising from vehicles traffic, (vi) maintenance of slopes stability and landslide sites, (vii)
requirements for feasibility report on roads reconstruction, (viii) method of estimation of damage
to natural environment, (ix) feature of a substantiation of roads elements during reconstruction,
(x) methods for noise impacts assessment; (xi) calculation of harmful components of gases in
air; and (xii) an estimation of transport safety in towns.

Construction Rules D.02.01-96. Road and bridges: Requirements for environmental
protection during design, construction, rehabilitation, repair and maintenance of roads
and bridges, 1996. The document was developed by MTRI. It is intended for use during
design, construction, repair and maintenance of roads. Some requirements are recommended,
other requirements are compulsory. The document includes: (i) general provisions, (ii)
protection of land resources, (iii) coordination of roads pathways with a landscape, (iv)
protection against transport noise, (v) protection against pollution, (vi) protection of geological
conditions, (vii) fauna and flora conservation, (viii) hydro-meteorological factors, (ix) liquidation
of consequences of accident pollution.

Temporary Construction Norms 18-74. Instructions on architectural and landscape
design of roads, 1975. Architectural and landscape design of motor roads represents a
complex of requirements and recommendations which should be considered at all stages of
design, construction, maintenance and repair of automobile roads. Four main indicators should
be considered: (i) spatial tracing, providing smoothness and clearness for the driver with a view
of convenience and traffic safety; (ii) visual orientation, providing visual reference points
allowing drivers to expect at a great distance changes of a road trajectory and conditions; (iii)
incorporation of roads in a landscape for improvement of movement convenience, disclosing of
beauty of a local landscape; (iv) improvements of a landscape by gardening, installation of
road's equipment.

Construction Norms and Rules 2.05.02-85. Motor roads. The document applies for designing
of new and reconstruction of existent motor roads. The document includes: (i) general
requirements, (ii) organization of traffic safety, (iii) environment protection, (iv) basic technical
norms, and transport and exploitation parameters, (v) crossings and adjunctions, (vi) earthen
cloth; (vii) road covering, (viii) bridges for pipe and tunnels, (ix) arrangement of road protection
constructions, (x) buildings and constructions of road and motor transportation services.

The environment protection section obliges to consider during design a degree of impact from
road on environment both during construction and operation, and also combination of road in a
landscape having preferred decisions which render minimum impact on environment. On roads
in bounds of water protection zones it is necessary to provide organized water discharge from
the roadway surface with its subsequent clearing or removal in the places to exclude pollution of

                                                   31

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




water supply sources. For places of unstable and especially sensitive ecological systems
(inundated zones, a landslide slopes, etc.) it is necessary to provide measures towards
maintenance of a minimum ecological balance and disturbance prevention. At suppression by a
roads of migratory ways of animals it is necessary to elaborate special measures towards
providing of safe and free animals' movement. In case of excess of transport noise on
constructed adjoining territory, it is necessary to provide special anti-noise actions (shaft,
barriers and planting of special green trees).

Construction Norms and Rules 3.06.03-85. Motor roads.                 The document applies while
physical constructing works of new roads and reconstructing of existent motor roads. It
describes requirements for all technical parameters for covering of roads. The main items are:
(i) organization of road-building works, (ii) cleanup activities, (iii) constructions of an earthen
cloth, (iv) arrangement of additional layers of the bases and intermediates, (v) arrangement of
asphalt-concrete coverings and the bases, (vi) arrangement of conditions of roads, (viii) quality
assurance and acceptance of executed works. The document is supporting by the set of
materials included in three manuals:
    1. The manual on the arrangement of superficial processing on roads;
    2. The manual on application of asphalt-concrete covering and bases for roads;
    3. The manual on construction of coverings and bases for roads from soils, consolidated by
        binding materials.

3.2.    National requirements for Environmental Impact Assessment and Ecological
Expertise


Moldova has its own relatively well developed legal and institutional framework for
Environmental Assessment. The major provisions are included in the Law on the
Environmental Protection, 1993, amended in 1997. This framework Law introduces the
concept of state ecological review (literally, state ecological "expertise" - SEE) which seeks to
examine the compliance of proposed activities and projects with the requirements of
environmental legislation and standards and ecological safety. The law stipulates the mandatory
cross-sectoral nature of SEE, which shall be scientifically justified, comprehensive, and
objective and which shall lead to conclusions in accordance with the law. SEE precedes
decision-making about activities that may have a negative impact on the environment and is
compulsory for all economic activities which may have likely negative impact on environment
regardless of their destination, property, investments, placing, source of financing, etc.
Financing of programs and projects is allowed only after a positive SEE decision has been
issued. According to the Law timeframe of conducting of ecological expertise for simple objects
may reach 45 days, for complicated ones ­3 months.

In 1996, the Parliament approved a special Law on Environmental Expertise and
Environment Impact Assessment. This law covers all aspects of conducting EA for all
planned development projects, which are subdivided into ones to be a subject of State
Ecological Expertise (SEE) and ones to be a subject of Environment Impact Assessment (EIA)
The Law established the specific procedure for planned activities that may have significant
environmental impacts.

According to the Law, all projects fall under three main categories:
·   First category ­ projects require full EIA before designing and can be further developed
    (detailed design) with only positive approval of EIA findings by the SEE;
·   Second category ­ projects require ecological substantiation of project activities and a
    special environmental chapter to be included in the project design documents and
    respectively positive approval from SEE before construction, and
·   Third category - the rest projects do not need to be passed through formal procedures of
    EIA and SEE.


                                                 32

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·   Projects that required full EIA before designing and relevant procedures

An annex to the Law on Environmental Expertise and Environment Impact Assessment,
1996 contains regulations for conducting full EIA studies. The EIA procedures are only
applicable to complex and potentially dangerous (to the environment) projects which could lead
to significant impacts. There are thirty-two types of projects requiring an EIA. Among others,
these include:

·   construction of auto highways and high-speed roads (however, any specific criteria as
    length and type of roads, traffic intensity, etc were not established), and
·   building of stationary asphalt-concrete plants (however, any specific criteria like plant
    capacity, etc. were not established)

The Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources (MENR) may require EIA for other types and
scales of projects on the case-by-case screening, but criteria and procedures for this decision
are not specifically stipulated in the Law.

The EIA should be conducted at an early stage of the project, before designing stage. The EIA
should be conducted by national certified experts (design institutes) following the defined
methodology, report structure and documentation requirements.

The basic requirements for EIA study and documentation are stipulated in EIA Regulation, as
well as requirements for EIA report (so called Statement on the Environmental Impact
Assessment). The first requirement is that alternatives to the project and mitigation measures
should be covered. As mentioned above, all alternatives of the project or any of its components
should be comparatively analyzed, and the best option should be selected. The regulation
requires that the "zero-option" or "do-nothing option" should be considered, as well. Measures
that would exclude or mitigate the negative impact of the project, as well as those that would
increase its positive impact should also be addressed. In fact, national legislation requires to
adopt measures towards mitigation environmental impacts and rational use of natural
resources.

The Statement on the Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA) should be a subject of public
and ministerial revisions. Corrected SEIA and other EIA documentations (additional reports,
results of specific investigations, tables, maps, models, etc.) should be presented to MENR for
revision as a part of SEE process (conducted by the Division for Pollution Reduction). The
principal objective of the SEE is to check if all environmental standards/ principles are adhered,
and environmental protection measures are addressed. A positive decision of SEE on the SEIA
provides the official basis to initiate detail design of the project.

Once the technical and economic evaluation (feasibility study) and detailed design are
prepared, it is again a subject of reviewing by SEE. The EIA findings including listing of
mitigation measures and environmental management plan should be incorporated in the chapter
"Protection of Environment" of the Design Report. At this stage SEE can be conducted either by
the central office of the MENR (Division for Pollution Reduction), or by the central headquarter
of the State Ecological Inspectorate (both situated in Chisinau) or by the Rayonal Ecological
Inspections in dependence on the scale of the project and its economic significance. In addition
to compulsory SEE, so called "ministerial" and/ or "public" expertise can be voluntarily applied.

The EIA procedure is generally a complex one. The steps to be followed for submission and
approval of EIA are illustrated in figure below. The developer (initiator of the planned activity) is
responsible for organization of EIA study, conducting of consultations and public hearings,
presentation of EIA documentation and SEIA to the SEE, including financing.


                                                    33

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




      INITIATOR                                                                            EIA
    (DEVELOPER)                   EIA TEAM                        EIA study                DOCUMENTATION




                                                                  LOCAL PUBLIC
          PUBLIC
                                                                   AUTHORITY               EIA
      ECOLOGICAL               ANNOUNCEMENT
                                                                                           STATEMENT
       EXPERTISE               in mass-media

         (voluntary)



                                                                  MINISTRIES &
                                                                 STATE AGENCIES
          reviewing                     reviewing


                                                                    MINISTRY OF
              COMMENTS
                                                                   ENVIRONMENT
                                  COMMENTS                         AND NATURAL
                                                                    RESOURSES




                                                    amendment EIA                 STATE ECOLOGICAL
                        INITIATOR                   DOCUMENTATION and                EXPERTISE
                      (DEVELOPER) +                 EIA STATEMENT
                        EIA TEAM


                                                      INITIATOR
                     approving                                                +
                                                     (DEVELOPER)

                                                                                         expertise
  TERMS OF
  REFERENCE for
  designing                                                                   -


                                  CHAPTER
                                  «ENVIRONMENTAL
       DESIGNER                   PROTECTION» as an integral
                                                                                     correction
                                  part of design documentation




To conclude, in conformity with national requirements, it is very unlikely that any sub-projects
under Moldova's Road Sector Program, and in particular, under Moldova Road Sector Program
Support Project shall not be a subject of full EIA study. The Moldova Road Sector Program
Support Project will not include major rehabilitation or reconstruction of roads. Even in cases if
some road sections are to be upgraded, rehabilitated, changed in trajectory, all these construction
works may be carried out in bounds of existing road designated lands (so called road protection
zones), and therefore these projects do not require full EIA study. The only concern is placing and
operation of asphalt-concrete plants. It is strongly recommended that all these issues should be
clarified during feasibility study, i.e. in time when all specific information on works and
supporting infrastructure is available.

·   Projects that require SEE of design documentation and relevant procedures

Other projects, which may have negative impact to environment, but not classified as "EIA
required projects" will require applying of SEE procedures before construction. Procedures for
conducting SEE are stipulated in upgraded Instruction on Order of Organization and


                                                          34

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Conduction of the State Ecological Expertise, 2003, which replaced previous Instruction on
the Organisation and Conduction of Ecological Expertise, 1996.

Among general provisions of the instruction should be mentioned next: state ecological
expertise is based upon laws, norms and ecological standards and fully determines ecological,
economic, and social factors which affect environment before taking decision on economic and
other activities. Basic principles of ecological expertise are: comprehensive examination of
technical, ecological, social and economic parameters presented in documentation on planned
economic activity with considering of regional characteristics, ecosystem conditions and their
sustainability to planned impact, perspective of socio-economic development of the region;
Priority goals of ecological expertise are maintenance of ecological balance, conservation of
genetic fund and biological diversity, creation of favourable conditions for living, etc. Sections
"Environment Protection" and "Environment Protection during Construction" in the project
documentation should be developed only by specialists in these fields. Technical solutions,
reflected in the submitted for SEE technical documentation have to be sufficiently substantiated
in relation to reduction/ mitigation of impact on environment. The instruction is accompanied by
a series of annexes, which describe in details (i) requirements for project documentation
submitted to SEE; (ii) nominate subdivisions of MENR responsible for SEE in relation to the
various types and scales of projects; (iii) requirements for every chapter or volume of project
documentation, etc.

The planned and design documentation relevant to the road development should be presented
for SEE approval according to following pattern:

Type of object or planned, design              Subdivision of MENR, responsible for the SEE
documentation                              Division for        Department of            Rayonal
                                         Environmental          Ecological            Ecological
                                            Pollution          Expertise and         Inspectorate
                                        Prevention of the     Environmental
                                              MENR           Authorizations of
                                                                 the State
                                                                Ecological
                                                               Inspectorate
                                                               (headquarter)
Design     documentation    for   the           +                   or +
projects that have passed full EIA
Enterprises     for     constructional                               +
materials
All types of deposits (warehouses)                                   +
National   and   raional   automobile                                +
roads, detour roads, streets and
roads within the towns and raional
centers
Rural automobile roads                                                                     +


It should be pointed out that SEE of design documentation may be required for some of sub-
projects which may relate to reconstruction of badly deteriorated roads or where modification of
roads trajectory or significant rehabilitation works are to be carried out. All issues related to new
deposits for constructional materials (if needed) and asphalt-concrete plants may raise
requirements for SEE process to be applied. All these aspects should be clarified during
feasibility study when all specific information is available.

In case if SEE is required the Instruction on Order of Organization and Conduction of the
State Ecological Expertise, 2003 should be consulted in details.




                                                  35

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                      Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




The list of basic requirements to volume and content of relevant to the field project and design
documentation and materials submitted to organs performing SEE is presented in the table
below.

N/n   List of documentation                                              Industrial         Motor
                                                                       enterprises      (regardless of
                                                                       (e.g. asphalt         type)
                                                                          plant) &
                                                                         stockpiles
1     Project documentation:
1.1   Explanatory note, including:
           ·   baseline information, needed for project and
               explanation for selection of site (or corridor)
           ·   Water supply and wastewater
           ·   Ventilation & heating
           ·   Storm sewage
           ·   Description of technology
1.2   Design Documentation Chapter "Environmental Protection"
      with sub-chapters:
           a. Air protection
           b. Water resources protection
           c. Soil protection
           d. Flora & fauna protection
           e. Economic efficiency of environmental protection
               measures
1.3   Construction Documentation with sub-chapter "Environment
      Protection during Construction phase"
1.4   Combined budget-financial report
1.5   Register of equipment certification
1.6.  Materials on preliminary approved land acquisition for
      construction
1.7   Engineering-geological & hydro-geological research
1.8   Materials on soil research/characteristics of top-soil
1.9   Drawings (general plan, situation plan, site off engineering
      network and installations, etc.)
1.10  Materials on engineering protection (drainage, anti-erosion,
      etc.)
1.11  Design proposals (project) on observation regime wells
1.12  Design proposals (project) of irrigated lands
1.13  Copies of technical conditions for engineering provision for:
           ·   Water supply and canalization
           ·   Heating supply
           ·   Storm sewage
           ·   Gas supply
1.14  Conditions for special water use
1.15  Design proposals (projects) on environmental rehabilitation
      of quarries and land sites (corridors) impaired by
      construction
1.16  Measures (or design proposals) on use of excavated top-
      soil
2     Documents on coordination of Project documentation
      with:
2.1   Territorial (specialized) design institute
2.2   Local public administration
2.3   Urban/ raion architectural authorities
2.4   Raion ecological agencies/ inspections
2.5   Organs of state supervision, including coordination for:


                                                      36

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




N/n  List of documentation                                                 Industrial         Motor
                                                                         enterprises      (regardless of
                                                                         (e.g. asphalt         type)
                                                                            plant) &
                                                                           stockpiles
         ·    Sanitary protection strips of enterprises
         ·    Classification of wastes and methods of their
              utilization
         ·    Placing & designing of rakeouts
2.6  State Geological Agency AGeoM
2.7  State Concern Apele Moldovei / ACVA
2.8  State Hydrometeorological Service for:
         ·    Background pollution concentrations
         ·    Climatic conditions
2.9  Fish inspectorate
2.11 Land Cadastre
2.13 Documentary acknowledgement from owner of polygon on
     potentiality to receive, stockpile and dispose wastes
2.14 Documentary acknowledgement from owners of quarry/
     borrow on potentiality of use of mineral priming needed for
     equalizing bed on construction ground
2.15 Documentary acknowledgement and characteristics of type
     of fuel used in boiler-room
2.16 Document on results of conducted ecological expertise of
     new technologies and installations/ equipment (at least one
     from listed below):
         ·    Conclusion of the Institute of Ecology
         ·    Conclusion of leading (sectoral) scientific-research
              institute
         ·    Acknowledgement from foreign company on
              ecological safety of technology and installation/
              equipment or on exclusion of negative impact on
              environment
2.17 Documentary acknowledge of efficiency of gas- and dust-
     catching installation/ equipment
2.18 Permit for emissions of hazardous substances into air
2.19 Fishery-biological basis of damage to fish resources from
     water intake and other installations
2.21 Results of discussions with local people in regard to
     projected activities in the area of (for complicated objects)
3    List of mandatory documents and materials included in
     project design package, including
3.1  Effective activities to prevent soil and underground water
     pollution as a result of object exploitation (collection, clean-
     up and use of surface runoff, settling of drainage systems,
     establishment of observation wells network, etc.)
3.2  Balance of raw materials, materials and outcome of finished
     products with considering of technological drains and
     production wastes including catched and emitted into air
     ones
3.3  Solutions on wastes storing, disposal and utilization with
     considering of their volume and classification in conformity
     with toxicity degree. Documents on coordination of these
     solutions with organs of state supervision and waste
     polygon owner
3.4  Activities to be taken to mitigate impacts of hazardous
     emissions into air on physic-chemical and biological
     characteristics of soil, water bodies, flora and fauna


                                                     37

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




N/n     List of documentation                                              Industrial         Motor
                                                                         enterprises      (regardless of
                                                                         (e.g. asphalt         type)
                                                                            plant) &
                                                                           stockpiles
3.5     Activities to be taken to reduce specific water consumption
        for communal and industrial needs
3.6     Natural water balance and water use balance in alignment
        of water intake site
3.8     Activities to be taken on establishing and maintaining of
        water protection strip along rivers and water bodies and
        carrying out of economic activities within its bounds
3.10    Results of analysis and prognosis of chemicals content in
        underground water and water supply source on adjacent to
        the object territories and settlements
3.13    Activities to be taken towards prevention of likely accidents
        and elimination of their negative consequences

·   Projects that not require EIA and SEE of the design documentation
Projects that do not meet criteria for full EIA study and SEE of design documentation can fall
under this category. Normally, light rehabilitation of roads (most of sub-projects will rely on this
definition), routine and periodic road maintenance, small repair/improvement of roads and
relevant roadside works do not require SEE.


3.3.     Other relevant guidelines and procedures


In 2004 there was complied an Operational Manual for the Moldovan Social Investment Fund to
facilitate the activity of applicants, local public authorities and MSIF officers on the ensuring
environmental sustainability over the whole cycle of subprojects implementation. In the
frameworks of Operational Manual there were developed Environmental Guidelines to provide
potential applicants, who are submitting micro-projects proposals (e.g. rehabilitation of country
roads, small bridges, school building, local water supply sources and small-scale water
systems, small-scale gas supply system, etc.) to Moldova Social Investment Fund, with
essential environmental concerns to be considered as fully as possible while developing and
implementing micro-projects. The Operational Manual may be used as a general guidance,
showing environmental concerns and procedures also for road rehabilitation activities.

In 2006 MENR has prepared the Introductive Resource Kit on the Strategic Environmental
Assessment in the Republic of Moldova with the financial support of the UNDP and technical
assistance of the Regional Environmental Center (REC) for Central and Eastern Europe. It was
the first attempt to comply a practical guide for potential users involved in developing of strategic
documents in Moldova to incorporate environmental issues. The Resource Kit contains main
steps and phases of Strategic Environmental Assessment, ways for its incorporation into the
planning process and modalities for cooperation of different stakeholders from relevant
program. It describes involvement of civil society in preparing of strategic documents, gives
relevant examples on Strategic Environmental Assessment application in other countries, etc.
The Resource Kit may be used as a guide for assessment of environmental issues related to
the road strategic documents as Transport Sector Program or Transport Sector Strategy, both
are currently under development.




                                                       38

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                            Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




4.      Institutional framework and capacity to perform safeguards


4.1.    National Institutional Framework


Road sector
The national competent authority for the road sector in Moldova is MTRI (formerly Ministry of
Transport and Communications) which is a state agency of executive authority dealing with
development of state policy and normative-legal regulations in the field of railway, motor, water
and road management. The SRA is subordinated agency which is responsible for planning and
assignment of construction and maintenance works. It prepares tender documents for new
construction and major rehabilitation works. For a short time in 2001, the road administration
existed as an autonomous and financially independent public road authority, which would obtain
its revenues directly from the road users through a newly established "second generation" Road
Fund. But after a few months of its activity, by Governmental Decision the public authority was
transformed into a State Enterprise, subordinated to the MTRI13.

In the past the responsibilities for all design and engineering studies was made for the State
Road Design Institute. Recently this institution was divided into a number of small private design
agencies with reduced staff number (lack of qualified specialists) and lower practical experience
since last decade there were a little road design studies conducted in Moldova.

Contractors for road construction and road rehabilitation are totally or partially privatized.
Partially privatized contractors have been transformed into joint-stock venues. Government
owns 22% of stock of the country's biggest national road construction company. In other 3
construction companies, the Government owns more than 60% of stocks. The Government also
owns 70-90% of stocks in 38 road maintenance contractors. There are also two road
construction contractors 100% owned privately. Along with government expenditures for roads
maintenance (about US $6,0 million per year), turnover figures of construction industry are low
(about US $1,0 million for trunk-roads), although its capacity is reportedly 10 times as much as
this amount. Looking for revenues, many contractors practice other construction activities, such
house-building, tile production, etc. The present situation, when so little money was spent to
maintain Moldovan roads, road construction industry can not develop properly. Many
contractors complain about loss of their most skilled staff that leaves for neighboring countries14.

Environment
The principal competent authority in the field of environmental protection and management is
MENR. The State Ecological Inspectorate subordinated to MENR deals with environmental
issues both at central and rayon level.

The competent EA authority in Moldova is the network of environmental agencies performing
SEE. The network is formally subdivided into MENR itself and State Ecological Inspectorate that
is subordinated agency of the MENR. Division on Environmental Pollution Prevention of MENR
is responsible for checking and approval of full EIA studies. Headquarter of the State Ecological
Inspectorate is situated in Chisinau. It includes Department of Ecological Expertise and
Environmental Authorizations, which is directly responsible for SEE, and local ecological
inspectorates for 32 raions, for Autonomous Territorial Unit (ATU) Gagauz Yeri, for
municipalities Chisinau, Balti, Comrat, and Bender (which are also responsible for performing of
SEE but in relation to projects that are of local importance and small-scale environmental
impacts).


13Moldova: Transport Strategy Update with Emphasis on the Road Sector, December 2002, World Bank
14Moldova: Transport Strategy Update with Emphasis on the Road Sector, December 2002, World Bank

                                                          39

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




In the ministry SEE is performing by a group of permanently employed state experts working in
the Division for Environmental Pollution Prevention; they may ask for additional support from the
central office of the State Ecological Inspectorate or, if necessary, for revision of EA documents
for complex and dangerous objects, as well as from any other resource experts and specialized
institutes (for instance, Academy of Science, Moldovan State University, Technical University,
state design institutes, etc.). By the MENR and State Ecological Inspectorate all aspects of the
environmental media are being presented, e.g., air, soil, flora and fauna, etc. These experts
should be highly skilled professionals with at least 10 years of experience in the field and five
years as planners.

At the same time there are no any environment departments or staff in charge within MTRI and
State Road Administration. There is also lack of environmental specialists among permanent
staff of the State Road Design Institute, which actually is in the process of reorganization
towards several small private design companies.


4.2.    Assessment of capacities to perform safeguards
While Moldova made impressive progress in developing legislation on environmental protection
and EA, more effective environmental management requires progress in relation to: (i)
promoting to apply the current Sectoral Environmental Assessments towards mitigation any
serious unanticipated environmental consequences and incorporation of feasibility studies
environmental findings into selection and design of sub-projects; (ii) development institutional
capacity within MTRI for performing of the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) for the
whole sector development plans and application of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
for newly constructed or heavily rehabilitated roads; and (iii) further strengthening of SRA and
State    Ecological    Inspectorate   capacities  towards    supervising   of   implementation of
environmental monitoring plans (EMPs), (iv) increasing capacity of design institutes (including
private ones) in relation to consideration of environmental concerns.

The actual institutional capacity of borrower was evaluated during project preparation stage. On
the basis of this evaluation one can conclude, that MENR and SEE have relevant capacities to
perform their duties concerning reviewing EA studies and enforcing EMP provisions.

As noted, at the national level EA policy development, review, and enforcement are charged by
SEE via MENR and Ecological Inspectorate. MENR has a mandate to develop the regulatory
framework for environmental assessment, as well as for the national environmental policy,
planning regulation and coordinating of environmental matters with the line ministries. The
actual intention of MENR is to introduce the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA)
procedures to be incorporated into in-line ministries as a planning tool. MENR is actually
finalizing preparation of Implementation Strategy of EECUN Protocol on SEA under Convention
for EIA in the trasboundary context. As a general guideline the Introductive Resource Kit on
SEA for Republic of Moldova had been prepared in 2006.

At the same time, within MTRI and project implementing agency (State Road Administration)
there are no any special unit and/or especially designated staff responsible for environmental
issues. Furthermore, in both institutions there are no subdivisions that work in this area, and
also analytical laboratories that might ensure compliance with the existing legislation,
regulations and ecological norms.

From the performed analysis evidently that at present the country does not have enough
capacity to implement efficiently environmental safeguards. In this regard, the project would
support capacity building in institutions responsible for EA, as well as with MTRI and SRA staff.
First of all, it was proposed to provide MTRI and SRA with technical assistance for environment


                                                 40

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




management and assessment, including training workshops, revision of environmental
guidelines in the road sector and provision of full-time environmental specialist to the SRA.
Proposed capacity building activities are described in details under chapter Institutional
Arrangements.

4.3.    WB Safeguards procedures to be considered
WB has a series of safeguards policies and procedures that address different issues. WB
safeguards policies that may be triggered by current project are the following: (a) Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01) and, probably (b) Natural Habitats (4.04). At current stage only policy
related to the Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is considered to be applicable, however, as
project implements, other policies may be potentially triggered, as well. It is strongly
recommended that during feasibility studies these aspects had been clarified in more details.

Environment Assessment. World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects
proposed for financing by Bank to ensure their environmental soundness and sustainability, and
thus to improve decision making (OP 4.01, January 1999). EA is a process whose profundity
and type of analysis depends on nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the
proposed project. EA evaluates a project's potential environmental risks and impacts; examines
project alternatives; identifies ways of improving project selection, sitting, planning, design and
implementation by prevention, minimization, mitigation or compensation of adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive ones.              It also includes mitigation and
management of adverse environmental impacts during project implementation. The Bank
prefers preventive measures rather than mitigation or compensatory ones, whenever feasible.

EA takes into consideration the natural (air, water, and land), social (human health and safety,
and such social aspects as involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples) and cultural
environments, as well as transboundary and global environmental aspects. It also takes into
account the variations in project and country conditions, findings of country environmental
studies, national environmental action plans, the country's overall policy framework, national
legislation, and institutional capabilities related to the environmental and social aspects, and
obligations of the country to be met under relevant international environmental conventions and
agreements. The Bank does not finance projects that would not comply with these obligations, if
this identified during EA.

Information disclosure and Consultation. For (i) A and B projects and (ii) sub-projects
categorized as A and B, the borrower consults project-affected groups and local non-
governmental organizations (NGO's) about the project's environmental and social aspects and
takes their views into account. The borrower initiates such consultations as early as possible.
For Category A projects, the borrower consults these groups at least twice: (a) shortly after
environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the EA are finalized; and (b)
once a draft EA report is prepared. In addition, the borrower consults with such groups
throughout project implementation as necessary to address EA-related issues that affect them.
The Borrower provides relevant information in a timely manner prior to consultation and in a
form and language accessible to the groups being consulted.

The Borrower makes the draft EA (for category A projects) or any separate EA report (for
category B projects) available in country in a local language and at a public place accessible to
project-affected groups and local NGOs prior to appraisal. The final EA report should be sent to
the InfoShop prior to appraisal for all category A and category B projects. For category A
projects, the task team sends a summary of the EA report to the Board of Directors as soon as it
is received. Separate Resettlement Plans and Indigenous Peoples Plans are disclosed with the
relevant EA report.




                                                  41

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                         Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




4.4.   Assessment of adequacy of National EA requirements to the WB rules and
procedures
The Republic of Moldova has a comprehensive set of environmental laws and regulations.
Environmental provisions stipulated both by the Constitution, and such laws and Law on
Environmental Protection (1993), Ecological Expertise and Environmental Impact Assessment
(1996) and other sectoral laws on environmental pollution and natural resources management
comply with World Bank environmental policies. A special analysis on compatibility of the
Moldovan EA system with WB and EU rules and procedures was conducted by the WB in
200315. The main conclusion of the study was that many features of the Moldovan EIA system
are generally compatible with corresponding World Bank procedures and relevant EU directive.
Furthermore, existing Moldovan legal framework often is even more comprehensive and
detailed. However, there are some important deficiencies to be addressed:

·  Formal provisions for Strategic Environmental Assessment require specific formal regulation
   (procedure);
·  General and specific guidelines for SEA, EIA studies in major areas of national economy
   have to be developed (or World Bank guidelines, in the Pollution Prevention and Abatement
   Handbook to be assessed and applied);
·  Screening and scoping phases should be legally built with clear criteria and procedures;
·  Method of coordination with other planning studies, particularly SEA, has to be clarified;
·  A third category of projects (those with no environmental impact) has to be officially
   established with clear criteria for assessment and simplified environmental requirements;
·  Clear criteria for screening of projects have to be outlined;
·  Scoping methods have to be established;
·  Content of EIA report should be revised in order to incorporate policy; legal and
   administrative framework; non-technical summary; records of public hearings;
·  Clarify responsibilities for carrying out of environmental monitoring and monitoring of
   performance after SEA and EIA findings;
·  Responsibilities for enforcement and compliance have to be outlined in SEA and EIA
   Regulation and Law;
·  Independent expertise for SEA and EIA reports quality should be envisaged and
   incorporated;
·  Decision-making procedures and responsibilities should be clearly described.




15R.Klees, A. Barannic, A.Capcelea. EIA systems in Central and eastern European Countries, 2003, WB (see:
www.Worldbank.org/eca/environment)

                                                     42

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




5.      Environmental impacts

The purpose of this section is to identify possible environmental impacts resulting from planned
development of the road sector in general (in relation to the Government's Road Sector
Program) and proposed activities under Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project.

The nature and scale of impacts have been determined by the type of interventions within the
proposed project to assist the road sector, which mostly focuses on improvements of existing
roads through resurfacing, provision of drainage, and routine road maintenance. Therefore, the
environmental impact analysis for three stages (expected under the Road Sector Program) was
performed separately. These stages are next:

·   Reconstruction of heavily damaged roads (not included in the Moldova Road Sector
    Program Support Project, but which may be considered later on),
·   Improvement of existing roads under Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project (for the
    Road Rehabilitation Component as Institutional Strengthening Component it will have no
    direct negative environmental impacts), and
·   Routine road maintenance.

Besides, more important aspects of potential (negative and positive) impacts at the stage of
reconstructed/ improved roads operation (traffic) were evaluated.

Generally, no major project environmental impacts are expected. Most environmental impacts
will be temporary and local, mostly during the construction phase and will cause only minor,
localized and short-term negative effects. Most of them will be mainly linked with light
rehabilitation works such as leveling, grading, potholes patching, cracks priming, surfacing,
quarrying, use of hazardous materials, such as combustive-lubricating ones, bitumen, etc.,
traffic of construction vehicles/ hauling of road-building materials, building materials stockpiling
and use of waste disposals. These impacts are common in road rehabilitation works and can be
mitigated by existing management techniques.

Impacts originated from use of asphalt-concrete mixtures, bitumen and other hazardous
materials, and their hauling from sites where they are produced to the sites where they are
applied had been considered, as well. All these impacts are also common for such kind of works
and can be easily mitigated through application of existing techniques and measures.

After completion, the project will have positive indirect impacts on human welfare, safety, health
and socio-economic environment through reduced vehicles operating cost, decreased number
of accidents; reduced air pollution resulted from vehicles emissions on rehabilitated road
sections; cleaning up of roadside drains; reduced risk of soil pollution and erosion, and water
pollution resulting from rehabilitation of drainage system, reduced risk of landslides due to slope
stabilization, better access to settlements and markets, development of new business
opportunities, etc.

Using as a reference the guidelines provided in World Bank's Handbook on the Roads and
Environment a general list of potential impacts during construction/rehabilitation; operational
and maintenance phases (see Annex 2) has been prepared that lists vide range of possible
environmental and social impacts that could be anticipated from a project of this nature.


As shown in Annex 2, Table 1, outlined environmental and social Impacts for road rehabilitation
phase, resurfacing of existing roads, that the project mostly would consist of, have a small
number temporary local on-site environmental impacts. Significant disturbances to land,
interference to soil stability and hydrology in the area will not take place. Impacts on air quality

                                                 43

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




and noise levels will depend on the projected increase of traffic flow and anticipated reduction of
traffic congestion - both due to improved road conditions. Presumably, the net effect on air
quality and noise levels will have a positive effect as the roads considered for rehabilitation are
the national roads which are generally used permanently even in cases where the road
conditions have deteriorated significantly and/or an alternative route with better conditions are
available. Most of the negative environmental impacts triggered under this project will be seen
off-site where road-building material would be sourced. If not managed properly, quarry and
borrow sites can have substantial impacts on the surrounding environment as well as intrusion
on the aesthetic quality of the sites. Considering this it was decided that the project will specify
contract provisions governing the sources of constructional materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, sand,
etc.) would be supplied only from sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals for
environment and worker safety. Contractors will be required to produce relevant licenses for
quarries and borrow sites where constructional material will be excavated.

In addition to main impacts identified above, one should also consider temporary disturbances
to the environment that might occur during the road rehabilitation phase. Waste water runoff
from construction camps, spills of substances used in equipment/machinery operation and
maintenance, traffic congestions caused by improperly planned detours and closures can cause
localized impacts, which can be temporary quite significant and hence need to be carefully
considered.

Annex 2, Table 2, outlined potential environment and socio-economic impacts during the road
operation phase which are mostly linked with combustion gases emissions, contaminated
surface run-off and at the same time, reduced vehicles operating costs and reduced emissions
into air as compared to previous road conditions.

Annex 2, Table 3 reflects the environmental and social impacts during the road maintenance
phase mostly linked with light road repair works.

These annexes identify in details road project implementation activities, potential positive and
negative impacts caused by these activities and suggested measures to be taken towards
impacts mitigation.

Relevant information from this section should be applied when specific environmental analysis
is conducted (it is expected during feasibility study) to determine the type of impacts and extent
of severity linked with further identified sub-projects.




                                                  44

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




6.      Analysis of alternatives

The Sector Environmental Assessment considers potential alternatives generally linked with
sector policy and priority of road resources for various regions and types/conditions of the
roads.

There was not proposed construction of new roads, and hence, in-deep analysis and evaluation
of alternatives is not required. Motor roads remain the most significant goods and passenger's
transportation pattern in the country and play a vital part in development of Moldovan. In such a
way, other types of transportations, e.g. railway, air or water will not be considering as an
alternative to the motor one, traditionally developed in Moldova.

Proposed roads corridors were selected with consideration of their international, national, and
local significance, actual and projected traffic flows and technical status of roadway covering.
No more road corridors and road types/status (highway, country or heavily deteriorated roads)
can be considered as an alternative at the time being.

The only strategic alternatives are "no rehabilitation and/or maintenance" or "rehabilitation
and/or maintenance" approach.

The "no rehabilitation/ maintenance" (or "no project") alternative is not a good environmental
option which being chosen may provoke adverse environmental effects/environmental risks over
time. These risks may arise as a result of the following conditions:

·   road's technical status (roadway covering, road basement, engendering enforcement
    structures, side and cut-off drains, etc.) will be progressively deteriorating;
·   poorly controlled surface and groundwater flows may cause localized erosion, disturb
    drainage patterns and trigger landslides and ravines processes which in turn, can affect the
    nature and roads infrastructure itself;
·   lack of sufficient maintenance (cracks and potholes on road surface) will affect road's safety
    and cause car accidents, humans death and injury, as well as accidental spills contributing
    to pollution of down land soil and waterways, etc.;
·   poor roads will force drivers to apply lower speed under non-optimal engine regime that may
    result in increased emissions of combustion gases and additional pollution of air, soil and
    water, as well as bigger noise impact;
·   progressive road's deterioration will also increase transportation time, discomfort to
    passengers, losses and damages to goods, more fuel consumption and other social and
    economic negative impacts;

The "rehabilitation and/ or maintenance" approach, proposed by the Moldova's Road Sector
Program is a better environmental alternative, as most of impacts described in previous chapter
are temporary, local, easily recovered and managed.

The feasibility study to be performed before sub-projects are finally selected, may suggest a
range of specific options that have to be considered, including:
·   location of sub-projects and related roads segments lengths;
·   types of improvements for certain roads sectors;
·   technical and engineering solutions;
·   work schedule and modes of traffic regulations on the road sections under rehabilitation/
    maintenance;
·   environmental consideration, such as reduction of emissions into air, wild animals migration
    patterns, livestock movement, noise control measures, etc.
·   selection of borrows pits and queries to provide local building materials (sand, gravel);

                                                  45

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project               Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·  identification of places for asphalt-bitumen plants operation, transportation and heating of
   bitumen;
·  requirements and specification for road construction machines, equipment and techniques,
·  others.

Analysis of aforesaid options is out of the scope for Sectoral Environmental Assessment, but
specific environmental analysis of alternatives would be very important at the stage of feasibility
study.




                                                46

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




7.      Environmental Management Plan


The current Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes (i) national and sector level
mitigation with outlined proposals for developing of policy/regulatory and institutional framework
for EA as well as strengthen the EA capacity in all institutions involved, i.e., in government road
sector, environmental agencies, among national contractors; (ii) EA management framework to
be used for environmental assessment/screening of the proposed road sub-projects; (iii)
Environmental Guidelines, (iv) and Environmental Monitoring Plan.

7.1.    National and sector level mitigation


It was suggested that the project would support capacity building activities for MTRI and SRA
staff, as well as for the institutions responsible for performing EA. First of all, it was proposed to
provide MTRI and SRA with technical assistance for environmental management and
assessment, including appointment of full-time environmental specialist, revision/adoption of
environmentally oriented road design/construction requirements and training.

The environmental specialist within SRA is needed to assist in: (i) integrating environmental
procedures into project cycle and into sectoral environmental policies and management; and, (ii)
reviewing sub-projects that would require conducting of limited or full environmental
assessment, (iii) coordination of preparation of environmental studies, EA reports, and relevant
chapters of design documentation, (iv) coordinate all required environmental approvals and
permits, both at the national and local levels, (v) check if bidding documentation and
contractors' contracts include all required environmental considerations, (vi) prepare curriculum
and supervise/implement training activities for SEE and local ecological inspectors on
supervision of EMPs implementation, (vii) to carry out SRA monitoring of environmental impacts
resulting from project activities, monitor correct application and efficiency of mitigation measures
commissioned by contractors. Detailed requirements and scope of works for full-time
environmental specialist are included in chapter on Implementing Arrangement. The
environmental specialist may be trained through visiting of similar WB projects abroad in order
to gain and improve relevant experience and skills.

It was also proposed that the project would support training for MENR, MTRI and SRA staff in
the field of Strategic Environmental Assessment, organization of workshop that would contribute
to relevant capacity, and preparation/publication of Strategic Environmental Assessment
guidelines for road sector development. For this purposes resource experts or experienced
NGO may be engaged. It was also discussed an issue that in case of Transport Sector Program
for 2008-2017 which will include a Transport Sector Strategy and a prioritized 10-year Transport
Investment and Expenditure Plan is prepared by the Government, the pilot Strategic
Environmental Assessment can be conducted. It was also underlined that relevant funds can be
found among donors.

It was proposed that the project may finance preparation of general Environmental Road
Handbook mostly designated for road policy managers and public. The Environmental Road
Handbook may incorporate national and WB policies, findings from relevant WB handbooks16,
other technical and policy guidelines and summarize international experience and Europeans
standards in the field. The main purpose of this activity is to prepare guidelines which will be
oriented to the environmental and road safety policy issues, and would include the framework
for better environmental decisions and involvement of public rather than a technical engineering
document. The guidelines may be prepared by private consultants or NGO.



16 "Roads and the Environmental Handbook", WB Technical paper No 376

                                                   47

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




The Engineering Standards (Temporary Construction Norms 9-79. Guide for environment and
land tenure protection measures for reconstruction of automobile roads in Moldova, 1979;
Construction Rules D.02.01-96. Road and bridges: Requirements for environmental protection
during design, construction, rehabilitation, repairing and maintaining of roads and bridges, 1996,
and Temporary Construction Norms 18-74. Instructions on architectural and landscape
designing of roads, 1975) can be appropriately improved in the light of policy guideline,
mentioned in previous paragraph, and the new modern version in local language may be
produced. At present, aforesaid Standards are available only in Russian. This activity may be
implemented by engineering consultants or a specialized company.

Additionally, the project will support training activities for SEE and local ecological inspectors on
supervision of EMPs implementation and on enforcement of their provisions. Environmental
specialist, employed by SRA may implement this activity, with assistance from resource experts,
if needed.

It is also important to produce environmentally oriented leaflets, booklets, placards, reflecting
the major environmental findings obtained during project implementation and designated to
provide information for public and NGOs community.

7.2.    EA and Management Framework


The proposed Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (EAMF) covers: (a)
procedures for environmental screening of sub-projects and criteria for categorization; (b)
procedures for conducting Environmental Impacts Assessment and/ or preparing the EMP for
selected sub-projects; and (c) roles and responsibilities for EIAs and/ or EMP reviewing,
approval, monitoring and enforcement.

The current EAMF should serve as a template for performing of appropriate environmental
analysis of sub-projects and if designed, for ensuring consistency with Moldova national
environmental requirements and WB policy. The EAMF aims to ensure that: (a) the sub-project
activities do not create or result in serious adverse impacts on local communities and
environment, (b) the mitigation plan is implemented properly, and (c) possible complaints from
local authorities and communities are minimized. The EAMF also covers institutional
arrangements needed for evaluation and monitoring of environmental impacts during design,
construction, operation and maintenance phases. The EAMF contains also recommendations
concerning public consultations to be held for each selected road sub-project of category B and
disclosure of EMP.

·   Procedures     for   environmental       screening      of   sub-projects    and     criteria for
    categorization

By the time being, details of specific sub-projects and roads sites are unknown and hence site-
specific EAs cannot be conducted. Considering this, the Sectoral Environmental Assessment
identifies generic issues that are typically associated with road rehabilitation and maintenance
activities, as proposed under the Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project and may be
expected under entire Moldova's Road Sector Program, and should be apply when relevant
details are available. In such circumstances, OP 4.01 requires that arrangements be made
whereby the project implementing institutions undertake the functions of sub-project screening,
EA review and implementation of mitigation and monitoring plans.

Before design, the consulting companies that will be hired to conduct feasibility studies (for
about 500 km of roads) should identify sub-projects and assess their alternatives. At this stage it
is important to evaluate proposed sub-projects also from environmental perspective and define
type of EA required and specific formal requirements.


                                                  48

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                              Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




During feasibility study it may become evidently that some of sub-projects (or parts of roads or
supporting infrastructure) may require full detailed EIA study17, some of them ­ only SEE of
design documentations18, or, for some of them, only environmental permits may be required.
Nevertheless each individual sub-projects (and relevant supporting infrastructure like deposits,
asphalt-bitumen plants, constructional materials carriers if it is a case) will be assessed and, if
necessary, engineering documentation will be reviewed and cleared by the State Ecological
Expertise (SEE) as applicable (for category B projects), under prevailing national environmental
legislation in Moldova and by IDA prior to the approval of disbursement of funds.

The sub-project environmental assessment will involve following steps19:

Step 1:           Road sub-project screening
Step 2:           Preparing a simple EMP and/org EIA and EMP
Step 3:           Consultation
Step 4:           Environmental Review and Approval
Step 5:           Implementation
Step 6:           Supervision and Reporting

Further the details for each step are elucidated.

Step 1: Road sub-project screening.

The screening process is not intended to interdict carrying out of roads rehabilitation and/ or
maintenance-related works in environmentally and socially sensitive areas, but ensures that
proper mitigation measures are proposed, included in design documentation and undertaken
appropriately to avoid adverse impacts on affected population, natural environment and cultural
heritage. Therefore, Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for all sub-projects (or parts of
roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a case) has to be conducted by the SRA full-time
environmental specialist in close cooperation with team/experts in charge for feasibility study.
The findings of IEE will be analyzed and approved by the SEE authorities in order to have
formal agreement (between SRA and SEE) on what kind of EA and procedures will be required
further.

If IEE demonstrates that sub-project (or parts of roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a
case) is located in or near protected areas or other critical habitats or cultural heritage, it will
require to establish close cooperation with Rayon Environmental Inspectorate or central SEE
authorities and other concerned agencies (for example, health, geological, water or forest
authorities) and consult to World Bank. This coordination is important to determine whether a
full EIA needs to be conducted and/or design documentation would require passing of SEE
formal procedures. Nevertheless the scope and contents of an IEE should be limited by follows:

       -    Brief description of the proposed project area and works;
       -    Description of relevant components of the existing environment, particularly those
            which caused that the area was classified as "environmentally and socially sensitive",
            if applicable;


17It is not expected now as no new road construction are foreseen, but MENR may classify the project activities as
complex and harmful for environment and have a right to ask preparation of EIA, or, as example - the full EIA may
be required for construction of asphalt-bitumen factories if stationary plants had to be build.
18Formally SEE is required for any deposits (which may be build for constructional materials as example),
enterprises for constructional materials (ex. asphalt-bitumen factory) and construction of roads (heavily
reconstruction potentially may be classified under this category)
19Depending on the nature of the subproject and readiness of the proposal, the steps 1, 2, and 3 may be combined
into one single review and clearance step.

                                                          49

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




       -  Assessment of effects of the specific road works activity on relevant components of the
          existing environment already identified and described.
       -  Suggested practical mitigation measures towards lessen the specific potential effects
          identified;
       -  A short report of any public consultations carried out, including names and details of
          those consulted, any suggestions made, and how these were incorporated into the
          recommended mitigation measures;
       -  Recommendation on either specific mitigation measures have to be undertaken,
          including applicable ones from Annex 1, or if more comprehensive EA is required
          (EMP, EIA and EMP);
       -  Clear procedure steps for environment safety examination (SEE) and obtaining of
          relevant permits.

Typically the IEE would include the description of the key environmental features of the project
site, whether critical natural habitats, forests, or rare and endangered species are likely to be
impacted, whether water courses or groundwater sources will be affected, and wastes and
contaminants likely to be generated during construction and operation, etc. In order to decide
whether the proposed sub-project (or parts of roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a case)
may cause adverse environmental impacts that need to be addressed with more details in
project design, it is proposed to perform an IEE to determine potential impacts and level of
required environmental assessment.

In order assist IEE implementation a model of checklist has been developed and presented in
the Annex 3. The checklist highlights typical issues that need to be considered and modus of
identifying of all types of impacts that may arise from a project. It must be noted that each road
project will have impacts that are specific for that road, and hence may emerge issues that are
not covered by the checklist. Checklist should serve to summarize potential impacts and provide
a simple and visual tool for conducting assessment. It also demonstrates magnitude and
significance of the impacts. Completed checklist should help to make a decision on what type of
further environmental consideration and procedures are important for specific sub-project (or
parts of roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a case). The coordination of its preparation
with environmental authorities is essential.

Depending on nature and scale of the impacts, the reviewing authority (SRA environmental
specialist after consultation with Rayon Environmental Inspections or central SEE authorities)
will inform SRA about decision concerning further environmental documentation required for the
sub-project.

Since the project focuses on road maintenance and rehabilitation, all physical works will be
carried out within existing right-of-way width, and thus there will be no need for additional land
acquisition and disturbance to property. Furthermore, expectedly there will be little or no impact
on erosion, stability of slopes and sedimentation/siltation of water courses. Instead, the
rehabilitation of the roads will decrease the erosion rate along the roads as compared to existing
conditions. It is also expected that rehabilitation/maintenance works will not have any effects on
water resources and water quality along the roads. The impact on natural vegetation associated
with operating of quarry and borrow areas, and constructing detours and access roads to
borrow material pits and quarry sites, probably will not be applicable within the project because
only existing borrow/quarry sites will be used. Besides, there are no important wildlife and
wildlife habitat in the proposed project areas, and project components will not involve any
encroachment into known and designated ecologically sensitive areas, parks and nature
reserves. Considering aforesaid, the screening process, in most of the cases, may display the
following:




                                                  50

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




   ·   The sub-project is assessed by SRA environmental specialist as not having significant
       adverse environmental impact (WB environmental category C). No specific
       environmental action is required. In dependence on scale of road activities, the design
       company has to elaborate a set of simple mitigation measures during the civil works to
       be carried out and which have to be describe in the contracts signed by road civil works
       Contractors. Most of these measures are very simple and based mostly on avoidance
       approach. They may be selected from the measures presented in the Annex 1 and
       simple EMP have to be prepared.
   ·   The sub-project is assessed by SRA environmental specialist as having adverse
       environmental impacts for which mitigation measures can be easily elaborated (WB
       environmental category B and national requirements for formal SEE should be
       considered). For such projects EMP as a part of WB procedures and set of design
       documentation for national SEE (see chapter Policy, Legal and Regulatory framework
       for environmental and road sector) are required. The EMP should describe relevant
       environmental concerns and suggest mitigation and monitoring measures. In some
       cases, a limited additional environmental assessment study may be required before the
       EMP is complied. If SEE procedures are applicable (description of procedures and
       requirements can be found in sub-chapter National Requirements for Environmental
       Impact Assessment and Ecological Expertise) the SRA environmental specialist will
       consult with SEE authorities. If the impacts are significant and design documentation
       requires SEE formal approval, SRA seeks SEE and the Bank clearance before selection
       of sub-project (or parts of roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a case). Consultation
       with affected population is expected during the planning and implementation phases.

The table below present typical sub-project screening criteria for categorization of Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation activities.

Project activity  Objectives                                   WB         Environmental Protection
                                                             project                 Rules
                                                            category




                                               51

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Project activity Objectives                                    WB        Environmental Protection
                                                             project                 Rules
                                                             category

Minimum          The minimum maintenance standard               C       WB:
Maintenance      reflects the current practice in the
                                                                        Simple mitigation measures
                 absence of major maintenance works.
                                                                        should be considered in the
                 These include the following :
                                                                        design and incorporated into
                 Patching: Repair of road covering by                   the contracts for construction
                 potholing, wide structural cracking and                Contractors. Simplified EMP
                 gravelling. It is carried out annually.                should be complied.

                 Crack Sealing: This technique treats
                 transverse thermal cracking and even
                                                                        National:
                 wide structural cracking when area is
                 limited. It is carried out annually.                   The SEE is not required.

                 Routine Works: Routine works include all               For the activities, classified
                 works that do not affect pavement                      as rebuilding and
                 performance. These works include                       reconditioning, the
                 shoulder repairs and various routine                   construction permit is not
                 works such as vegetation control, road                 required if road improvement
                 sign repairs and replacement, road                     works are carried out within
                 striping, guardrail repair and replacement,            the Right of Way of such a
                 etc. Routine works are carried out                     road.
                 annually.

                 Winter Maintenance: Winter maintenance
                 includes all works carried out as part of
                 winter maintenance such as salt
                 spreading; snow removal, etc. An annual
                 cost is specified for each road class. It
                 applies to all roads.

Surface          To preserve the integrity of the pavement      C
Treatment        by sealing the carriageway in order to
                 delay major intervention and renewal of
(Single or
                 the skid resistance.
Double)

Surface          To preserve the integrity of the pavement      C
Treatment        by sealing the carriageway in order to
                 delay major intervention, improving
With Shape
                 roughness and renewal of the skid
Correction
                 resistance.

Resurfacing by   To renew surface characteristics including     C
Overlay          skid resistance, to improve roughness
                 and to contribute towards the overall
                 pavement strength. Overlay by surfacing
                 included thickness between 30 and 50
                 mm and were applied over a roughness
                 values varying from 3 to 5 IRI and low
                 rutting level.




                                                    52

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Project activity Objectives                                     WB        Environmental Protection
                                                              project                Rules
                                                              category

Strengthening by To strengthen pavements, which have             C
Overlay          reached or soon to reach the critical stage
                 (poor or fair roughness condition),
                 improve roughness and renew surface
                 characteristics. Strengthening by overlay
                 concerned the application of multi-layer
                 overlays (two or three layers) varying from
                 a thickness of 80 to 270 mm applied over
                 a range of roughness values varying from
                 4 to 9 IRI.

Strengthening by To strengthen pavements, which have             C
Mill and Replace reached or soon to reach the critical stage
                 (poor or fair rutting condition), improve
                 roughness and renew surface
                 characteristics. It is achieved by removing
                 the distressed top asphalt layer (s) and
                 replacing it (them) with a new (or
                 recycled) asphalt of similar thickness but
                 with better structural characteristics. This
                 standard was applied over a range of
                 rutting varying from 10 to 35 mm.

Strengthening by To reconstruct pavements, which have            C
Reconstruction   reached the failure stage (poor roughness
                 condition). Reconstruction is achieved
                 through removal of the old pavement
                 structure down to the subbase course and
                 replacing it with a new (or recycled)
                 pavement structure with high strength.
                 Pavement structures varied according to
                 road class and were applied over a range
                 of roughness values carrying from 8 to 11
                 IRI

Widening to 7 m  To increase the narrow roads to a               C       WB:
                 minimum standard road width of 7 meters.
                                                                         An environmental impact
                 This standard is applicable to Main roads
                                                                         assessment (EIA) and
                 with 6 meter or less width.
                                                                         environmental management
2 Lanes addition To add two lanes to a single 2-lane             B       plan (EMP) are required and
to Single        carriageway (not dualisation) in order to               are to be cleared by national
Carriageways     increase capacity. This improvement                     reviewing authorities and the
                 standard is applied over a wide range of                WB
                 volume/capacity ratios varying from 0.5 to
                 1. It is mainly applied to Trunk and Main
                 roads, which are not dual yet.                          National:

1 Lane addition  To add 1 lane to either sides of a dual        C/B      The SEE is required if road
to Dual          two-lane carriageway in order to increase               improvement works are
Carriageways     capacity. This improvement standard is                  carried outside of the Right
                 applied over a wide range of                            of Way limits of such a road
                 volume/capacity ratios varying from 0.5 to              and if the construction
                 1. It is mainly applied to Motorways,                   involves additional territories.
                 Expressways, and Trunk Roads with Dual
                                                                         The EIA is required for new
                 Carriageways.
                                                                         roads.




                                                    53

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                              Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Project activity       Objectives                                           WB       Environmental Protection
                                                                          project                Rules
                                                                         category

2 Lanes addition       To add 2 lane to either sides of a dual                B     roads.
to Dual                two-lane carriageway in order to increase
                                                                                    Construction permit is
Carriageways           capacity. This improvement standard is
                                                                                    required if road improvement
                       applied over a wide range of
                                                                                    works exceed the right of
                       volume/capacity ratios varying from 0.5 to
                                                                                    way of such a road.
                       1. It is mainly applied to Motorways,
                       Expressways, and Trunk Roads with Dual
                       Carriageways.

Reconstruct to         To upgrade GP roads to Expressway                      B
Expressway             single carriageway standard. This
Single                 improvement standard is applied over a
Carriageway            wide range of volume/capacity ratios
                       varying from 0.5 to 1.

Reconstruct to         To upgrade GP roads to Expressway dual                 B
Expressway             carriageway standard. This improvement
Dual                   standard is applied over a wide range of
Carriageway            volume/capacity ratios varying from 0.5 to
                       1.



·   Procedures for conducting Environmental Impacts Assessment and/or preparing an
    EMP for selected sub-projects


Step 2: Preparing a simple EMP or EIA plus EMP.

In case of category C of sub-project, in conformity with WB requirements, each sub-project (or
parts of roads or supporting infrastructures, if it is a case) is required a simple EMP, containing
basic mitigation measures for the roads rehabilitation and maintenance activities as well as
monitoring and supervision measures. The main civil works will be limited by activities typically
defined as routine and periodic maintenance (resurfacing and bridge small repairs; flood repairs
or emergency maintenance; regular upkeep of safety features and road signs, etc.) and small
rehabilitation works to strengthen the road, repair structural defects, restore the road to its initial
condition, make small changes or improvements to alignment, and cleaning of drainage and
footpaths. If large-scale rehabilitation works are needed, SRA will inform the Bank before
proceeding with the contract. The works will be carried out within the existing right of way and
will not involve relocation and land acquisition. Should land acquisition and relocation is needed,
the Bank will be informed, and the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines (RCG) will be
applied. For most sub-projects a simple EMP, complied by the SRA environmental specialist
(see provisional example in the Annex 4), and environmental/monitoring requirements for
design/construction contractors included in their contracts (see example in the Annex 5) will be
sufficient to guide mitigation and monitoring.

In the case of category B of sub-project, the step 2 requires preparation of EIA20 and EMP as
stipulated in the WB policy documentation and will require formal conduction of national SEE of
project design documentation (see sub-chapter National Requirements for Environmental
Impact Assessment and Ecological Expertise). In those cases, when such documentation is
required. The SRA will organize preparation of the relevant documents for submission during
the time indicated by the reviewing authority, with considering of WB requirements and national
SEE. Depending on environmental impacts resulting from project, the environmental
documentation for WB could represent either a separate report, or simply be presented as a


20At this stage it is not expected that full EIA will be needed for sub-projects.

                                                           54

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




section in the overall project documentation submitted for appraisal to the approving authority
(outline of EIA and EMP are presented in Annex 6). According to the national requirements it
should be a chapter "Environment Protection" and sub-chapter "Environment Protection during
Construction Phase" submitted as an integral part of engineering design documentation and
other requested materials for the SEE (see sub-chapter National Requirements for
Environmental Impact Assessment and Ecological Expertise). The SRA environmental specialist
will be responsible for preparation of all documentation regarding WB requirements and should
control whether in a contract to be signed with design/construction companies includes WB
requirements and needs for preparation/ submission of all necessary documentation for SEE
under national rules.


Step 3: Consultation.

For category C of sub-projects, the consultation to be held during preparation of IEE may be
sufficient. The SRA environmental specialist will include a summary of local consultation in the
checklist and will check whether findings of local environmental concerns are adequately
presented in the design/ construction contracts and covered financially by the contractors.

For category B of sub-projects, the SRA will organize a hearing for consultation with and
comments from project-affected groups and local non-governmental organizations during the
environmental assessment process (at the scoping stage and at the time when draft EIA report
is ready) and consider their opinions before making a decision on financing of proposed project.
The SRA should provide relevant materials (process descriptions, maps, permits, building plans,
etc.) to participants in a timely manner and in a form and language that are understandable to
consulted groups. The SRA environmental specialist will be responsible for organizing of
consultation, and also should provide the summary of initial consultation for design/construction
contactors (this has to be included in the documentation for SEE reviewing and approval). If
necessary, the additional consultation will be held by the SRA environmental specialist jointly
with the contractor, specifically in regard to proposed mitigation measures and monitoring to be
applied by the construction contractors. The SRA environmental specialist will be responsible
for preparation of overall summary of consultation meetings in conformity with WB procedures.

·   Roles and responsibilities for EIAs and/or EMP reviewing, approval, monitoring and
    enforcement

Step 4: Environmental Review and Approval.

For category C of sub-projects, environmental review and approval will be responsibility of SRA
environmental specialist. He/she should check whether design/ construction contracts include
environmental items/clauses and whether design/ construction contractors fully use findings/
recommendations of IEE. To ensure that all environmental requirements are in place, the
construction works can be proceeded only if SRA environmental specialist issues an approval
document. Coordination with local governments, local environmental and health authorities is
required.

For category B, the project documentation will be reviewed and approved by SEE and WB. The
decision on environmental aspects of the project, and any additional measures or changes
required to the proposed environmental management plan will be conveyed at this stage. WB
will evaluate EIA and EMP prepared as outlined in the Annex 5. The SEE will specifically look
for the implementation capacity and monitoring arrangements for the proposed mitigation
measures and ensure that the costs of environmental management are considered in the
project's cost. The SRA environmental specialist will control whether all documentation
prepared by the Design Company and contractors is appropriately complied and relevant for
SEE submission. The SRA environmental specialist is also responsible for presentation of
required materials needed for WB reviewing and approval.

Step 5. Implementation.



                                                 55

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




For category C and category B of sub-projects, the SRA (on the base of the SRA
environmental specialist conclusion) incorporate the environmental requirements into
bidding/contract document for design/construction and ensures compliance of the contractors
during the bidding process. The construction Contractors should appoint an officer dealing with
environmental issues who will be responsible for implementation of mitigation measures, for
holding of Contractor's monitoring plan, and for liaison with SRA (via SRA environmental
specialist). This responsible officer should inform SRA and relevant environmental authority
(rayon or national) prior to proceeding of construction works (at least 10 days before planned
commencement of works) in order they would be prepared to make relevant inspections during
the whole construction period. SRA supervising engineer and SRA environmental specialist will
closely monitor the contractor performance and document this in the supervision/progress
report. Useful recommendations towards increasing efficiency of the mitigation plan should be
provided, as well. Progress reports to SRA provided by the Contractors, should contain relevant
environmental information and should be evaluated by the SRA environmental specialist.

Step 6: Supervision and Reporting.

Once project implementation starts, the SRA environmental specialist, the SRA field engineer
(technical supervisor), preferably jointly with representative of relevant environmental authority
(who should be informed in advance), supervise the implementation of the mitigation measures
for category C of sub-projects and application of EMP for category B of sub-projects through
the course of construction and operation and specify corrective measures, as necessary.
Annually SRA will provide World Bank with a summary of financed sub-projects and their
environmental impacts in order to assess and prevent any cumulative effects of similar
investments. The SRA will make all environmental assessments and environmental
management plans prepared for financed sub-projects available to the World Bank project
supervision missions. The SRA will periodically review the supervision report, periodically
inspect the contractor performance, communicate to public, and prepare a semi-annual report to
be submitted to the Bank. The overall responsibility for environmental supervision and reporting
is a responsibility of the SRA environmental specialist

7.3. Environmental Guidelines


The proposed Guidelines define preventive and mitigation measures to be taken to prevent
potential adverse impacts that might arise during the implementation of the road subprojects.

·   Guidelines for mitigation of environmental impacts during designing/ planning phase

Design/planning phase: the adequate planning and design of environmental protection activities
and mitigation measures will be required to minimize potential environmental impacts. Contract
documents for design will incorporate all requirements to minimize effects on environment that
may result from planned activities, as well as to avoid social and health impacts. For sub-
projects which will require application of SEE, defined by national legal provisions, the
preparation of necessary documentation for submission is essential. Thus all contractors will be
required to use environmentally acceptable technical standards for design and comply with
environmental, health and safety regulations stipulated by national legislation and World Bank
requirements.

The associated costs and compliance of all procedures with SEE will be full responsibility of
contractor for designing works.

Incorporation of mitigation measures in the design documentation will be monitored by the SRA
supervision engineer, jointly with the SRA environmental specialist to ensure compliance with
the contract.



                                                 56

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·   Guidelines for mitigation of environmental impacts during construction/ rehabilitation
    and operation phases

Construction/rehabilitation phase: construction/ rehabilitation mitigation measures will be
required to minimize potential environmental impacts as well as any inconveniences to the
public. To minimize potential construction-related negative environmental impacts, a
combination of preventive actions and monitoring should be applied. Adverse construction
activities will be reduced through the adoption of a set of mitigation activities, and adopted and
applied to all sub-projects.

Contract documents for construction will incorporate all requirements to minimize disturbance
from construction activities, including proper management of construction waste; control
measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants, other hazardous substances; provisions for
protection of vegetation and fauna, including migratory species (if applicable), actions to reduce
noise and dust levels; soil erosion control and water quality protection, and rehabilitation of
areas under construction camp, asphalt-concrete plants and temporarily storage of building
materials once the project is completed. The necessary mitigating measures would constitute
integral part of the project implementation including the contracts binding the contractors to
carry out the environmental obligations during road rehabilitation works. If contractors decided
to include in their submitted proposals the construction of permanently or temporary supporting
facilities (e.g. warehouses, asphalt-concrete plants, etc.) the costs for their design, mitigation
and SEE procedures should be clearly presented, and this should be a full responsibility of
contractors.

Thus, all contractors will be required to use environmentally acceptable technical standards and
procedures during carrying out of works. Additionally, contract clauses shall include
requirements towards compliance with all national construction, health protection, safeguard
laws and rules as well as on environmental protection.

Furthermore, each contractor will identify officers responsible for implementation of on
environmental protection activities in conformity with instructions received from the design
engineer, SRA environmental specialist or relevant environmental protection agency/agencies.
Financial penalties should be associated with compliance failure but with overall coverage by
the contractors. Many mitigating measures should be included as separate items in the
contracts' breakdown cost if it is a unit price contract. An identified extra fund will ensure that the
contractor having known that there is a budget for this and will clearly identify any extra costs
associated with environmental measures.

Elucidating of all potential effects and mitigating measures should also be included in all training
courses, or general guidelines prepared for contracts supervisors.            Contract specifications
concerning contractors' responsibilities during carrying out of civil works and taking mitigation
measures should be reflected in engineering designs and bid documents for each sub-project.
The EMPs should also specify contract provisions governing the sources of constructional
materials and vehicles. Materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, sand, etc.) will be supplied only from
sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals to ensure environmental and workers
safety, and any equipment to be used during construction should meet internationally
recognized standards for environmental health and workers safety. The EMPs should also
include provisions for spill prevention and cleanup in case of accidental spills, dust and noise
control, and appropriate traffic management during construction, safety enhancement,
construction sites cleanup and rehabilitation, etc. Further, the Bank will review the initial
contracts for roads rehabilitation works in each sub-project to ensure that these clauses and
measures are incorporated, as proposed.

To ensure that contractors understand the actions to be taken and the cost implications of
environmental management, and that required actions and measures are priced in bid

                                                  57

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




proposals, short-listed contractors will be informed about environmental protection requirements
(for category C of sub-projects) and EMP (for category B of sub-projects) at the Pre-Bid
Meetings. It is also proposed, that shortly after their appointment, contractors jointly with MTRI
supervisors and SRA project personnel will attend a seminar on environmental management
dedicated to environmental impact prevention/mitigation, explanation of EMP included in their
contracts and provisions for environmental management monitoring to be carried out. The
training seminar will be guided by the SRA environmental specialist. During construction the
contractors' compliance with the provisions specified in the bid documents will be supervised by
the SRA environmental specialist, SRA supervising engineer and State Ecological Inspectorate.

Some preventive and mitigation measures should be envisaged in all sub-projects. In particular,
it relates to:

(a) construction contracts should comply with environmental, health and safety regulations
stipulated by national legislation and WB procedures;
(b) contractors should follow a set of environmental guidelines for contractors prescribed by the
EMP.
(c) contractors should be required to submit, as part of their bid, a site-specific environmental
management plan including organization of training for participating staff. The scope of the plan
and training requirements should depend on the scale of proposed activities.

To ensure compliance with the contract, implementation of mitigation measures will be
monitored by the SRA supervision engineer, jointly with full-time SRA environmental specialist.

Operational phase: operational impacts will be addressed in order to avoid deterioration of road
conditions and associated safety problems. Among major issues to be addressed during
operation are: proper functioning of drainage facilities, landslide and erosion control. During this
phase, the potential negative impacts will result also from civil works to be executed as part of
the regular maintenance. To minimize potential operation-related negative environmental
impacts, some preventive measures should be taken during the design phase, and then a
combination of sound operational activities and monitoring should be carried out. This has to be
a part of the bidding documents.

Maintenance phase: Safeguards measures for road maintenance shall be included in technical
specifications for contractors. The guidelines form the basis of contractual obligations that are to
be fulfilled by road maintenance contractors. Contracts for maintenance will include specific
clauses for environmental protection based on the guidelines. Supervision and monitoring of
environmental performance will be carried out on the site by the SRA supervising engineer
jointly with the SRA environmental specialist. Periodic audits will also be carried out during
regular Bank supervision missions. The SRA will also prepare periodic (semi-annual) reports on
adherence to environmental requirements under the project.

·   Guidelines for mitigation of social impacts during construction\rehabilitation and
    operation phases

Mitigation measures must also address the human or social environment and respectively,
social and socio-economic impacts resulting from road sub-projects implementation. One of the
main objectives of socio-environmental impact assessment is to predict and prevent or mitigate
unacceptable adverse social environmental effects on people from the proposed actions or
projects. This is doing through involving the community and all other stakeholders, so that
changes can be recommended at the planning, design and implementation stages.

Methodologies for public involving should be designed and implemented in a flexible manner
adapting and responding to the local communities and conditions. They should be cost-effective
so that they do not cripple the environmental assessment budget. That is why public

                                                 58

      Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                               Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




      involvement should initially be built into the project budget. Public involvement activities must be
      carried out in an open and transparent manner.

      Public involvement is an essential element of environmental management of roads. It consists
      of three stages:
      ·   information dissemination
      ·   consultation, and
      ·   stakeholder participation.

      These stages of involvement can be applied at various times throughout the sub-project
      designing process, as well as the road project cycle, and may be used either once or
      simultaneously. It is necessary, therefore, to develop procedures and skills for informing the
      public and other interested parties about road development proposals. A catalytic role of local
      authorities will be getting people to participate in the various stages of the road project should
      be considered.

      7.4.    Environmental monitoring plan
      This section contains suggested monitoring activities on implementation of the EMP prepared
      as an integral part of current Sectoral Environmental Assessment (for details see also chapter
      Implementing Arrangements). It includes the basic monitoring indicators, timeframe procedures
      and responsibilities for proposed monitoring activities. Cost for monitoring is not indicated as
      this was included in the operational expenditures of SRA and covered by budget envisaged for
      SRA environmental specialist.


Mitigation                                  Monitoring indicators and procedures:                      Cost  Responsibility
measures21                   What           Where         How          When                 Why
 SRA environmental specialist:
Hiring           of    Qualification of     SRA       Revision of   Submission of                                 SRA
environmental          candidates           office    CVs,          CVs
specialist                                            interviews
                       Scope of work        SRA       Clarification Contract          To ensure that              SRA
                                            office    of contract   negotiation       all requirements
                                                      and TOR                         for
                                                                                      environmental
                                                                                      specialist are
                                                                                      included and
                                                                                      cleared
 Training of:
SRA                    Training results     SRA       Evaluation    After training                                SRA
environmental                               office    of training
specialist                                            report
MTRI, MENR and         Prepared             SRA       Evaluation    After training                                SRA,
SRA staff              training             office    of training                                             Environmental
                       materials,                     report                                                   specialist
                       training results
SEE staff              Prepared             SRA       Evaluation    After training                                SRA,
                       training             office    of training                                             Environmental
                       materials,                     report                                                   specialist
                       training results
State   Ecological     Prepared             SRA       Evaluation    After training                                SRA,
Inspectorate           training             office    of training                                             Environmental
                       materials,                     report                                                   specialist
                       training results




      21
        defined by the current Sectoral Environmental Assessment

                                                                  59

      Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Mitigation                            Monitoring indicators and procedures:                     Cost  Responsibility
measures21                 What       Where        How          When                 Why
Contractors          Prepared         SRA      Evaluation    After training    To ensure that              SRA,
                     training         office   of training                     all contractors         Environmental
                     materials,                report                          are aware about          specialist
                     training results                                          environmental
                                                                               considerations
                                                                               and understand
                                                                               requirements
Guidelines:
Strategic            Scope of work,   SRA      Clarification According         To ensure that              SRA,
Environmental        prepared         office   of contract   established       contractors             Environmental
Assessment           materials                 and TOR,      time-schedule     understand               specialist
Guideline                                      supervision                     requirements
                                               of work,
                                               evaluation
                                               of final
                                               product
National             Scope of work,   SRA      Clarification According         To ensure that              SRA,
Environmental        prepared         office   of contract   established       contractors             Environmental
Road Handbook        materials                 and TOR,      time-schedule     understand               specialist
                                               supervision                     requirements
                                               of work,
                                               evaluation
                                               of final
                                               product
National             Scope of work,   SRA      Clarification According         To ensure that              SRA,
Environmental        prepared         office   of contract   established       contractors             Environmental
Engineering          materials                 and TOR,      time-schedule     understand               specialist
Standards                                      supervision                     requirements
                                               of work,
                                               evaluation
                                               of final
                                               product
Public awareness:
Leaflets, booklets,  Scope of work,   SRA      Clarification According         To ensure that              SRA,
wall papers          prepared         office   of contract   established       contractors             Environmental
                     materials,                and TOR,      time-schedule     understand               specialist
                     dissemination             supervision                     requirements
                                               of work,
                                               evaluation
                                               of final
                                               product


      In addition to the monitoring of mitigation measures shown in the table above, the monitoring of
      environmental indicators and mitigation measures performance will be a part of the overall
      project monitoring. The SRA environmental specialist will review the environmental status of the
      sub-project areas to assist with the establishment of a baseline for the major environmental
      parameters and set up a monitoring program for periodic review of the sub-project's impact on
      environment. Monitoring of implementation of environmental mitigation measures in road
      rehabilitation sub-projects, established within specific EMPs, will be the responsibility of:
      ·   construction Contractors;
      ·   SRA environmental specialist (with assistance from SRA supervising engineer), and
      ·   Rayon ecological inspectors.

      The findings of the relevant monitoring activities will be reflected in quarterly and annual
      progress reports. The progress reports will cover the implementation of proposed by EMP,
      activities, as well as extent of environmental impacts (if any). The site supervisors should be
      trained to be able to inspect construction sites, borrowing and dumping areas, and other
      potentially affected areas. Specific aspects to be monitored include:
      ·   Carrying out of monitoring during construction;
      ·   Monitoring of significant impacts during the operation of roads.

                                                           60

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Monitoring indicators shall be developed for both the construction and operation phases of each
road sub-project. Monitoring of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation
measures of construction impacts are being implemented properly, while the monitoring of
operation is to ensure that no unforeseen negative impacts are arising. Periodic monitoring of
roads will be conducted by SRA environmental specialist to ensure compliance with submitted
monitoring plan. The functions of SRA environmental specialist be to: (i) review and approve
environmental management plans (EMP) of roads to be funded under the program; (ii) monitor
compliance with EMP by the various players involved in the implementation of the project; and
(iii) collect data to document that the environmental and social procedures are being met.

Furthermore, monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects will be conducted by a local or
international consultant during the mid-term review and at the end of the project.

SRA will supervise and monitor the overall activities and prepare a semi-annual report on the
application of environmental guidelines and other frameworks and action plans during the
planning, design and construction phase of the project. SRA with assistance from SRA
environmental specialist will also develop the reporting requirements and procedures to ensure
compliance of the contractors, conduct public consultation and implement public awareness
programs, and hold periodic training for field engineers and contractors, as appropriate.

A detailed monitoring program designed to validate the effectiveness of the mitigating measures
shall to be included in the EMPs for individual sub-projects. It should contain detailed
environmental compliance-monitoring requirements, including parameters and indicators for all
activities relating to the recommended mitigation measures. Implementation of the monitoring
program will be the responsibility of the SRA, in collaboration with the State Ecological
Inspectorate and its local offices and will be supervised by the MTRI nominated officer. Their
terms of reference would require them to report on compliance with the provisions of the EMP
through the regular progress reports that they are required to submit to the MTRI and the Bank.




                                                61

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




8.     Public consultation

While preparing current Sectoral Environmental Assessment in January 2007 there were
consulted stakeholders from MTRI, SRA, MENR, SEE division within the State Ecological
Inspectorate, State Road Design Institute, private design companies and Institute of Ecology
and Geography of Academy of Science. The consultations were held in order to clarify project
intervention to the environment, potential associated impacts, and national environmental
assessment and approval procedures.

The short version (draft summary) of Sectoral Environmental Assessment had been posted on
the website of Regional Environmental Center (www.rec.md) and had been distributed by REC
and SRA among NGOs, interested audience and governmental officials.

The final version of the SEA summary had been posted for comments on the REC web site on
February 27, 2007 and is available for the broad public in Moldova.




                                               62

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




9.      Implementing Arrangements and Budget

9.1.    Implementing arrangements


The project will be implemented under the general supervision and responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport and Road Industry. MTRI will execute the project through the State Road Administration
(SRA) as the direct implementing agency.

A Steering Committee has been established by the Prime Minister to ensure broad Government
oversight and guidance for the Government entire Road Sector Program, including those
activities funded by donors. The Steering Committee of four members is headed by the Deputy
Prime Minister and includes the Ministers of Transport, Finance and Economy.

State Road Administration. Direct responsibility for implementation of the Project would rest with
the SRA. Its responsibilities would include: procurement, financial management, contract
management, project and program monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. To strengthen
SRA's capacity accomplish these functions, at least five local specialists have to be recruited
under consultant contracts, through a competitive selection process. These will be in the areas
of procurement, financial management, environment and contract management. They would
work with regular SRA staff to transfer skills, organize activities, and generally increase the
efficiency of the agency. In addition, an international Management Consultant will be recruited to
provide general technical assistance and support to the Government overall Road Sector
Program, for entire duration of the Project. Among his responsibilities will be to assist with the
overall implementation of the Project and the Program, ensuring compliance with procurement
rules and procedures, contributing to knowledge transfer, ensuring harmonization between
donor- and the Government-funded activities, and generally providing technical and strategic
advice to MTRI. A Bid Evaluation Committee will be established to carry out the selection of
contractors, consultants and suppliers in conformity with agreed procurement rules and
procedures. The Committee would be mostly represented by technical specialists from the
Road Sector (MTRI and SRA), but would also include representatives from other ministries/
organizations, such as the Ministry of Finance and the National Procurement Organization.

Environmental specialist. In order to increase SRA capacities in the field of environmental
management a full-time environmental specialist will be recruited to oversee the environmental
aspects of project development and implementation. The primary tasks of the environmental
specialist will be:

A. Identification of required types for Environmental Assessments:
·   Conducting the Initial Environmental Assessments in order to identify the potential impacts
    and types of Environmental Assessment required for selected road sub-projects;
·   Identification of road sub-project's environmental category and specification of details for
    environmental assessments. Coordinate the findings of Initial Environmental Assessments
    and project environmental categorization with SEE with respective divisions of MENR and
    clarification of needs for preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment report or simple
    Environmental Management Plan or documentation for formal State Ecological Expertise;
B. Environmental Impact Assessment report or Environmental Management Plan or
documentation for formal State Ecological Expertise:
·   To ensure that required environmental documentation (Environmental Impact Assessment
    report or Environmental Management Plan or documentation for formal State Ecological
    Expertise) for each selected sub-project (or parts of roads) for rehabilitation is prepared.
    This documentation should be prepared and adopted in conformity with national
    requirements before the construction works commence. The Environmental Management
    Plan should reflect potential negative impacts associated with planned works and include

                                                 63

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




    proposals for mitigation measures to be taken, as well as monitoring activities related to
    potential impacts and mitigation measures;
·   To ensure that implementation of mitigation measures and carrying out of monitoring are
    included in the financial plan for road sub-projects;
·   To ensure that Environmental Impact Assessment report or Environmental Management
    Plan or documentation for formal State Ecological Expertise are presented for SEE in
    conformity with national requirements.
C. Integration of environmental requirements in contracts issued for carrying out of
rehabilitation works:
·   To present at the pre-qualification meetings of contractors the full set of environmental
    requirements to be followed by the contractors with use of general framework for sub-project
    evaluation and management;
·   To exam contractors proposals (in the light of environmental protection requirements) and
    identify the gaps not covered by the proposed measures or budget;
·   To prepare the environmental clauses which will be included in the contractor's contracts for
    implementation of road sub-projects;
·   To ensure that sub-contracts proposed by the contractors are prepared for agencies which
    provide goods and services (particularly, for those providing and producing constructional
    materials ­ borrow materials, asphalt plants etc.) and have respective valid licenses and
    environmental permits in conformity with national environmental requirements.
D. Institutional Capacity Building, including improvement of environmental regulations in
the road sector:
·   To prepare the program (curricula) and organize training for: (a) integration of environmental
    requirements and procedures in project cycle and in sectoral policy; (b) performing of SEE
    of the documentation for road construction/ rehabilitation projects; (c) implementation of the
    state control and department's supervision over projects in the road sector;
·   To organize pilot study and training on application of Strategic Environmental Assessments
    in the National Program for construction/ reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads in the
    Republic of Moldova;
·   To organize revision and improvement of environmentally oriented regulatory acts,
    instructions and standards in relation to the road sector, including Requirements for
    Environment Protection during the design, construction, rehabilitation, repairing period and
    maintenance of roads and bridges;
·   To organize publishing of materials on environmental matters in the road sector for
    specialists and for general public;
·   To prepare TOR and organize selection process for experts, private companies, state
    institutes or NGOs to ensure implementation of required actions in the frameworks of
    Environmental Management Plan (included in current Sectoral Environmental Assessment
    report) in relation to institutional capacity building and training;
·   To organize undertaking of measures for improvement of documentation ensuring
    incorporation of environmental protection requirements into program or projects on
    construction/ rehabilitation of roads.
E. Supervision and monitoring:
·   To control and ensure that public participates in discussion on EMP reports for selected sub-
    projects;
·   To supervise independently or jointly with the State Ecological Inspectorate the mitigation
    and environmental protection measures stipulated in Environmental Management Plan for
    each sub-project selected for rehabilitation of roads;
·   To ensure implementation of the monitoring plan of sub-projects as well as establishing of
    baseline for sub-projects and efficiency of mitigation measures.

F. Reporting:


                                                   64

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·   To prepare semi-annual reports on the progress of implementation of measures proposed
    by the Environmental Management Plan;
·   To prepare semi-annual reports on the environmental impacts originated during
    implementation of sub-projects and efficiency of mitigation measures applied to minimize
    negative consequences;
·   To prepare outline and requirements for contractors reports related to the implementation of
    mitigation and environmental protection measures and to analyze completed reports;
·   To present the effects of mitigation and environmental protection measures applied for
    overall public by specific publication or/and by annual seminars.


The Environmental Specialist implementing the TOR's requirements should consider national
environmental legislation and regulations, in particular: (a) Law on Environmental Expertise and
Environment Impact Assessment (1996); (b) Instruction on Order of Organization and
Conduction of the State Ecological Expertise (2003); (c) Law on Access to Information, Public
Participation in Decision Making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters (2000); (d)
Regulation on access of public for environmental decisions (2001); (d) Requirements of
environmental protection during the design, construction, rehabilitation, repairing period and
maintains of the roads and bridges (1996), as well as other environmental policy and guidance
of the World Bank, EBRD and IDA.

The Environmental Specialist must have an advanced degree in Environmental Science or
related field, should have at least seven years working experience related to environmental
management, designing and engineering projects (preferably in the road sector). He/ he should
be familiar with procedures for environmental assessments and monitoring, road construction,
maintenance and operational environmental management issues, national and international
environmental standards and requirements for road management, and should have significant
experience in working on environmental issues and coordination of public consultations in the
Republic of Moldova. The Environmental Specialist should have demonstrated proficiency in
English, Romanian and/or Russian and should be computer literate and familiar with all relevant
packages.

Training. A training program to develop and improve professional skills and capacity in
environmental management issues for the staff involved in project implementation will be
organized under the project. The development of training program is under overall responsibility
of SRA. For this purpose the SRA environmental specialist will be specially appointed for
curricula development and organization of training. The overall training program is drafted as
follows:

A. Training for SRA environmental specialist
The training is intended to increase capacity of hired environmental specialist in such fields as
impact identification, mitigation measures elaboration, and preparation of environmental clauses
for Contractors, monitoring and reporting. It is expected that SRA environmental specialist may
visit similar WB projects abroad to gain relevant experience and skill. The duration of training is
up to 2 weeks.

B. Training for MTRI, MENR and SRA staff
The training is intended for integration of environmental requirements and procedures into the
project cycle and in sectoral policy. Training can be organized as two separate training
sessions: first one - for integration of environmental requirements into the project cycle (first
year of project operation), and second one - for presentation of Strategic Environmental
Assessments of the National Program (Strategy) for construction/ reconstruction and
rehabilitation of roads in Republic of Moldova (at the time when Program and Strategy are
drafted). Both sessions will be held as one day workshop. Up to 25 participants are expected to


                                                 65

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




be trained. They could represent senior/middle staff of MTRI, MENR, SRA, road design and
planning institutes, NGOs. To conduct training sessions, a resource experts or experienced
NGO should be hired.

As a background paper for the first session the current Sectoral Environmental Assessment can
be used as it contains all necessary information and EMP to be presented for participants.

The second session may be held by different way. First option ­ is to provide participants with
information on needs and objectives of Strategic Environmental Assessments, their application
in the road sector, to explain relevant procedures and methodology (theoretical training). The
second option ­ first to conduct a pilot Strategic Environmental Assessment for the National
Program (Strategy) for construction/ reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads in Republic of
Moldova (additional funds should be found) and present both - theoretical background and
prepared Strategic Environmental Assessment report.

C. Training for SEE staff
The training is intended for improving of performance of the State Ecological Expertise of the
documentation for road construction/rehabilitation projects.

Training can be organized as a half-day training session (first year of project operation) for SEE
staff on national and local levels (MENR, State Ecological Inspectorate, Rayon Ecologic
Inspections situated within the project area). Up to 25 participants are expected to be trained.

To hold training, a resource expert or experienced NGO may be hired.

The major findings of the current Strategic Environmental Assessment can be used as a
background paper showing procedures for screening and scoping phase, identification of
significant impacts, development of mitigation and monitoring requirements.

D. Training for State Ecological Inspectorate
The training is intended to strengthen the state control and department's supervision of sub-
projects implementation in the road sector.

Training can be organized as a set of one day regional training sessions (second year of project
operation) for rayon environmental inspectorates placed within the project area. At least 3
training sessions should be organized and up to 15 participants are expected to be trained as
per region (north, south, and west).

The     SRA     environmental    specialist    will  hold    the   training   focusing    on    the
monitoring/supervision/inspection issues for different sub-projects.

The major findings obtained from the screening stage and preparation of simple EMP (for
category C of sub-projects) and EIA and EMP (for category B of sub-projects) should be
presented, and relevant monitoring requirements should be discussed.

E. Training for construction Contractors
The training is intended to improve capacities of Contractors to implement mitigation, monitoring
and comply with WB and national environmental requirements during their works.

Training may be organized during second year of project operation as a two days training
session for hired construction Contractors. Potential attendees of this training are senior
managers, designated field engineers for environment, senior engineers, field engineers and
labor brigadiers. Up to 15 participants are expected to be trained (for three construction
contracts).


                                                 66

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




The SRA environmental specialist will hold the training focusing on EMP findings (mitigation and
monitoring), environmental items/clauses for contracts, routine supervision of environmental
conditions, reporting.

Revision of guidelines. Revision of environmental guidelines in the road sector is important long-
term investment. Due to the fact that actually there are no adequately prepared national relevant
guidelines (some of engineering standards are available only in Russian, lack of policy and
planning oriented handbooks), revision of several guidelines by SRA is recommended. The SRA
environmental specialist will be responsible for setting up requirements for contractors and
evaluation of outputs.

A. Strategic Environmental Assessment Guideline
It is proposed that the project would support preparation/ publication of Strategic Environmental
Assessment guideline for road sector development (up to 50 pages). For this purposes resource
experts or experienced NGO may be engaged. The guideline should reflect objectives,
advantages, procedures and methodology for assessment of policy, programs, and plans in the
road sector. The guideline may be used as a background paper for holding of training envisaged
under point A. Training for MTRI, MENR and SRA staff. If results of pilot Strategic
Environmental Assessment are available they may be easily incorporated into training curricula
as a practical example of implementation.

B. National Environmental Road Handbook
It is proposed that the project may finance preparation of the general Environmental Road
Handbook mostly designated for road policy managers and general public. The Environmental
Road Handbook may incorporates WB policies, findings from relevant WB handbooks22, other
technical and policy guidelines and summarize other international experience and Europeans
standards in this field. The main purpose is to prepare a guideline (up to 200 pages) which will
be more oriented to environmental and road safety policy issues will include the framework for
better environmental decisions and involvement of public rather than poor technical engineering
document. This activity may be carried out by private consultants or NGO.

C. National Environmental Engineering Standards
The Engineering Standards (e.g., Temporary Construction Norms 9-79. Guide for environment
and land tenure protection measures for reconstruction of automobile roads in Moldova, 1979;
Construction Rules D.02.01-96. Road and bridges: Requirements for environmental protection
during design, construction, rehabilitation, repairing and maintaining of roads and bridges, 1996;
Temporary Construction Norms 18-74 Instructions on architectural and landscape designing of
roads, 1975) can be appropriately upgraded in the light of policy guideline, and a modern
version in local language may be produced. This activity may be carried out by engineering
consultants or company.

Public awareness. The project will produce several environmentally oriented leaflets, booklets
and placards, reflecting major environmental findings obtained during the project
implementation and designated to provide information for public and NGOs community. The
expected number of copies is around 500. The publication lies under overall responsibility of
SRA, and SRA environmental specialist will provide inputs for setting up the tasks and
evaluation of results. Activity may be implemented by the experienced NGO.

9.2.    Budget

Proposed tentative budget covers implementation of environmental management plan
developed within the current Sectoral Environmental Assessment.



22"Roads and the Environmental Handbook", WB Technical paper No 376

                                                 67

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




The SRA will be responsible for implementation of EMP and should estimated costs in more
details. A tentative breakdown of budgetary requirements (in $US) is shown below.


Line              Item                    Yr.1    Yr.2    Yr.3       Total          Comments
SRA               Salary,   travels  to   tbd     tbd     tbd                  To be defined by
environmental     sub-project     sites,                                       SRA as regular
specialist        monitoring       and                                         salary for an
                  inspection,   liaison                                        environmental
                  with   environmental                                         specialist
                  authorities,
                  coordination       of
                  training and other
                  environmental
                  works
Training          SRA environmental       4000                       4000
                  specialist
                  MTRI, MENR, SRA         3000   4000                7000
                  staff
                  SEE staff               3000                       3000
                  State      Ecological         3 x 2500             7500      3 regional trainings
                  Inspectorate
                  Contractors                    2500                2500
Guidelines        Strategic                     18000                18000
                  Environmental
                  Assessment
                  National                               29000       29000
                  Environmental Road
                  Handbook
                  National                      13000                13000
                  Environmental
                  Engineering
                  Standards
Public            Leaflets,   booklets,   2000   2000     2000       6000
awareness         placards
Sub-total                                12000  47000    31000       90000     Covers training,
                                                                               guidelines and
                                                                               public awareness
Additional  field During    sub-project   2000   2000                4000      The needs for
studies           screening                                                    additional field
                                                                               studies may be
                                                                               raised during sub-
                                                                               project screening.
                                                                               The cost can not be
                                                                               carefully predicted. It
                                                                               is recommended
                                                                               maintaining a certain
                                                                               financial reserve.
EIA   and   EMP   Implication        of   5000   5000                10000     The needs for
preparation       resource expertise                                           additional specific
                                                                               expertise for
                                                                               EIA/EMP preparation
                                                                               may be raised. The
                                                                               cost can not be
                                                                               carefully predicted. It
                                                                               is recommended
                                                                               maintaining a certain
                                                                               financial reserve.
Monitoring    of  Implication        of   2000   2000     2000       6000      The needs for
mitigation        resource expertise                                           additional specific
measures during                                                                expertise during
construction                                                                   inspection/monitoring
phase                                                                          of EMP requirements
                                                                               may be raised. The
                                                                               cost can not be

                                                68

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Line           Item                 Yr.1     Yr.2   Yr.3       Total          Comments
                                                                         carefully predicted. It
                                                                         is recommended
                                                                         maintaining a certain
                                                                         financial reserve.
Sub-total                           9000     9000   2000       20000     Covers potential
                                                                         requirements for
                                                                         studies, EMP and
                                                                         resource expertise
TOTAL                               21000   56000  33000      110000     Salary for
                                                                         environmental
                                                                         specialist and
                                                                         required operational
                                                                         expenditures are not
                                                                         included




                                            69

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project       Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annexes




                                            70

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project         Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 1. Selected maps of baseline conditions

Map A. Road corridors and administrative raions.




                                             71

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project       Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Map B. Road corridors and hydrological network




                                            72

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Map C. Road corridors and landslides risk areas




                                             73

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project       Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Map D. Road corridors and ravines risk areas




                                            74

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 2. Environmental Impacts

Table 1.       Environmental and Social Impacts for Road Rehabilitation Phase

Environmental   Project activity               Potential Impact                                                                Scale of the  Suggested Mitigation Measures
and social                                                                                                                     impact
components

Soils and land   ·   Transportation, siting    Negative:                                                                       Temporary/     · To plan carefully construction works to
                 and operation of mobile       ·    Damage to land due to:                                                     local          minimize land affected and ensure soil
                 asphalt plant/ or operation of                   ·    land reclamation for siting of mobile asphalt plant, if                pollution prevention
                 statutory asphalt plant                               needed/ reduced land use options                                       · To minimize construction site's size/ to
                 ·   Construction works                           ·    site preparation works/ earthworks                                    minimize land affected/ to ensure soil
                 linked with asphalt plant                        ·    excavation of constructional materials                                 pollution prevention
                 siting (construction of seat/                    ·    haul roads                                                             · To select proper site for placing of
                 temporary haul roads, etc.)   ·   Damage to soil structure due to traffic of vehicles and storage of                         mobile asphalt plant, if appropriate to
                 ·   Grading                   constructional materials (cement-concrete slabs, gravel, et.) in the                          minimize impact on land/soil
                 ·   Leveling                  immediate vicinity of road rehabilitation works                                                · To ensure accuracy of road
                 ·   Potholes patching/        ·   Accident soil pollution by petroleum hydrocarbons and other                                rehabilitation works/ to avoid spills, leaks,
                 cracks priming                hazardous and toxic materials in the area of mobile asphalt plant operation                    etc.
                 ·   Pavement / Carriageway    ·   Land damage/ soil pollution by bitumen, asphalt concrete mixtures                          · To provide proper haul roads to
                 surfacing (laying of asphalt- during loading-unloading/ transportation and laying                                            minimize impact on the land
                 concrete mixtures, laying     ·   Soil pollution due to leaks of lubricants                                                  · To avoid loss of vegetation along the
                 cement-concrete slabs, etc.)  ·   Temporary uncontrolled surface run-off due to construction /                               roads
                 ·   Use of hazardous          rehabilitation of drainage channels                                                            · To rehabilitate borrow areas, quarries
                 materials, such as            ·   Soil pollution by components of combustion gases emitted by                                and temporary haul /access roads by
                 combustive-lubricating ones,  construction vehicles (esp. heavy metals)                                                      planting grass and trees and other
                 bitumen, etc./ heating and    ·   Soil contamination due to constructional materials/ construction                           measures
                 spraying of bitumen           wastes disposals                                                                               · Proper design and installation
                 ·   Heavy machinery and       ·   Soil pollution due to contaminated surface runoff from the road under                      drainage and retaining structures/ civil
                 equipment operation           rehabilitation                                                                                 engineering structures/ clean up drainage
                 ·   Traffic of construction   ·    Soil erosion caused by re-channelization of waterways                                     channels/ culverts to minimize the risk of
                 vehicles                      ·                                                                                              erosion and landslides on downlands
                                                   Formation of gullies along drainage channels
                 ·   Hauling of constructional ·   Soil contamination due to improperly arranged temporary                                    · To avoid road rehabilitation works
                 materials such as bitumen,                                                                                                   during heavy rains/ to mitigate velocity
                                               accommodation facilitates
                 borrow materials, asphalt-                                                                                                   and volume of polluted surface run-off
                 concrete mixtures, concrete,                                                                                                 · Carry out landslides prevention
                 cement-concrete slabs,                                                                                                       activities/ physical stabilization of slopes
                 gravel, etc.)                                                                                                                (retaining walls, piles, etc.), if needed
                 ·   Rehabilitation of road                                                                                                   · To provide proper construction waste
                 drainage system (drainage                                                                                                    disposals
                   h     l    h t     t )
                                                                                      75

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                 channels, chutes, etc.)                                                                                                 · To provide proper stockpiling of
                 ·   Quarrying                                                                                                           constructional materials
                ·    Constructional materials                                                                                            · Planting / re-habilitation of vegetation
                stockpiling                                                                                                              (buffer strips) along the roads to minimize
                ·    Construction waste                                                                                                  spreading of combustion gases/
                disposals                                                                                                                particulates/ dust, if appropriate
                 ·   Construction/                                                                                                       · Backfilling and restoration of eroded
                 rehabilitation of sidewalks in                                                                                          channels to natural conditions/ re-
                 settlements                                                                                                             vegetation, if appropriate
                 ·   Establishment of                                                                                                   ·     Organize properly temporary sewage
                 construction camp/                                                                                                     facilities
                 accommodation facilities                                                                                               ·     Clean up of the work site/ restoration
                 (sewage facilities, waste                                                                                              of damaged areas after rehabilitation
                 disposals, etc.)               Positive:                                                                               works are finished
                                                ·  Slopes stabilization towards landslides prevention/ reduced risk of     Permanent/
                                                   landslides                                                              local
                                                ·  Decreased risk of soil pollution, soil erosion and landslides resulting
                                                   from rehabilitation of drainage system
                                                ·  Decreased risk of land degradation potentials/ gullies formation

Water Resources  ·   Transportation, siting     Negative:                                                                   Temporary/  ·      To plan carefully construction works
                 and operation of mobile           ·    Groundwater pollution due to surface runoff from operating          Local       to minimize impact on water resources
                 asphalt plant/ or operation of         asphalt plant ground                                                            ·      Minimize collection of water and mud,
                 statutory asphalt plant           ·    Groundwater pollution due to contaminated surface runoff/                       where possible, to execute road
                 ·   Construction works                 migration of spills/leaks from improperly stored lubricants and                 rehabilitation works during dry season
                 linked with asphalt plant              construction wastes                                                             ·      Mitigate run-off velocities and
                 siting (construction of seat/     ·    Groundwater pollution due to leaks from hauling vehicles during                 volumes/ design outfalls properly
                 haul roads, etc)                       transportation/ loading-unloading                                               ·      To prevent leaks/spills during
                 ·   Road leveling                 ·    Groundwater pollution by bitumen spills                                         transportation/ loading-unloading of
                 ·   Potholes patching/            ·    Increased siltation potential/ sediment runoff into downland                    constructional materials
                 cracks priming                         waterways (if any) due to modifications of drainage patterns                    ·      Stockpiles of constructional materials
                 ·   Pavement / Carriageway        ·    Groundwater pollution by spills from road accidents of vehicles                 should be covered with fabric or other
                 surfacing (laying of asphalt-          used for construction works                                                     materials to prevent/ mitigate contaminated
                 concrete mixtures, laying         ·    Disturbance to underground water table due to use of heavy                      runoff
                 cement-concrete slabs, etc.)           machinery                                                                       ·      To provide proper stockpiling of
                 ·   Use of hazardous              ·    Increased pressure on water resources due to additional water                   constructional materials and disposals of
                 materials, such as                     use for road maintenance works                                                  hazardous wastes/ avoid stockpiling on the
                 combustive-lubricating ones,      ·    Groundwater pollution by compounds of wastes produced by                        slopes or near waterways, if any/
                 bitumen, etc./ spraying of             infrastructure connected with accommodation facilities during                   contaminated run-off from stockpiles
                 bitumen                                road rehabilitation/ improper sewage facilitates                                should be drained into ditches with oil traps
                 ·   Heavy machinery and                                                                                                facilities
                 equipment operation                                                                                                    ·       Ideally, excavate cutoff ditches
                 ·   Traffic of construction                                                                                            around stockpiles to prevent materials from
                 vehicles machinery etc /                                                                                               being washed away by surface runoff/
                                                                                      76

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                      Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                 vehicles, machinery, etc./                                                                                         being washed away by surface runoff/
                 hauling of constructional                                                                                          arrange interception ditches to prevent
                 materials such as bitumen,                                                                                         muddy water to reach waterways (if any)
                 borrow materials, asphalt-                                                                                         ·     All lubricants and engine oils should
                 concrete mixtures,                                                                                                 be collected and recycled or disposed off
                 concrete, cement-concrete                                                                                          site
                 slabs, gravel, etc.)                                                                                               ·     Design drainage system to ensure
                ·   Rehabilitation of road                                                                                          soil stability/ soil erosion prevention and
                drainage system (drainage                                                                                           thus to avoid surface water pollution by
                channels, chutes, etc.)                                                                                             suspended solids
                ·   Quarrying/ removal and                                                                                          ·     Where possible, maintain natural
                placing borrow materials                                                                                            drainage
                ·   Heating and spraying of                                                                                         ·     Water for road construction works
                bitumen                                                                                                             should be obtained from such sources and
                ·   Constructional materials                                                                                        used in such amount that would not affect
                stockpiling                                                                                                         appropriate domestic water supply in the
                ·   Construction waste                                                                                              settlements
                disposals                                                                                                           ·     To avoid loss of vegetation during
                 ·  Establishment of                                                                                                road rehabilitation works
                 construction camp/                                                                                                 ·     Re-vegetation or physical stabilization
                 accommodation facilities                                                                                           of eroded slopes along the road
                 (sewage facilities, waste                                                                                          ·     Restoration of damaged lands,
                 disposals, etc.)                                                                                                   planting of grass and trees
                                                                                                                                    ·     To organize properly accommodation/
                                                                                                                                    sanitary facilities for workers
                                                                                                                                    ·     To clean up the area after the
                                                                                                                                    construction work is completed

                                              Positive:
                                              ·  Decreased risk of water pollution resulting from rehabilitation of     Permanent/
                                                 drainage systems as compared to previous road condition                local
                                              ·  Decreased risk of under-flooding resulting from rehabilitation of
                                                 drainage system as compared to previous road condition
                                              ·  Decreased risk of sedimentation/ turbidity of waterways (if any)
                                                 resulting from expected lower erosion potential



Air/ Acoustic    ·       Asphalt plant        Negative:                                                                 Temporary/  ·    To plan carefully construction works to
                 operation                    ·       Emissions from mobile/ statutory operating asphalt plant          Local       minimize air and acoustic pollution
                 ·       Traffic of vehicles  ·       Air pollution by components of combustion gases (CO2 , NOx).                  ·    Control construction methods and
                 used for road/ hauling of    ·       Air pollution by volatile hydrocarbons aggravated by unfavorable              used machinery and equipment
                 constructional materials and whether conditions (wind, hot, etc)                                                   ·    Careful timing of works in residential
                 construction wastes          ·       Local impairment of air quality during crushing and mixing of raw             areas)/ restrict construction to certain
                                             materials                                                                              hours
                                                                                    77

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                   ·       Heating of bitumen   materials                                                                               hours
                   ·       Crushing and         ·       Noise pollution and vibrations from hauling vehicles, operating                 ·    To avoid laud beep signals in
                   screening of materials       machinery and equipment                                                                 settlements/ to minimize disturbance to
                                                                                                                                        residents
                                                                                                                                        ·    Restrictions speed of construction
                                                                                                                                        vehicles, especially in residential areas
                                                                                                                                        ·    Either use of sprinkling-machines
                                                                                                                                        "inhaling" dust...
                                                                                                                                        ·    or control by water or other means/
                                                                                                                                        water spaying twice a day during
                                                                                                                                        construction to avoid dust
                                                                                                                                        ·     Watering of access roads to minimize
                                                                                                                                        dust formation, if applicable
                                                                                                                                        ·    Vehicles delivering materials should
                                                                                                                                        be well maintained and covered to prevent/
                                                                                                                                        reduce spills, emissions and dispersion
                                                Positive:                                                                   Permanent/
                                                ·  Decreased risk of air pollution due to reduction of combustion gases     Local
                                                   emissions into the air

Fauna and flora/  ·   Construction and           Negative:                                                                  Temporary/  ·         To plan carefully construction
habitats          operation of asphalt plant     ·    Soil and water pollution due to operation of asphalt plant            local       works to minimize impact on flora, fauna,
                  ·   Road rehabilitation        ·    Soil and water pollution by hazardous and toxic substances                        habitats/ careful siting, alignment, design of
                  works (leveling/ potholes      ·    Impact on biota due to contaminated environmental media (air,                     associated infrastructure to minimize
                  patching/ cracks priming/           water, soil)                                                                      impacts (especially in sensitive arias, if
                  pavement)                      ·    Noise pollution/ vibration due to operation machinery/ equipment                  appropriate)
                  ·   Use of hazardous           ·    Noise pollution due to traffic of construction vehicles                           ·         Careful timing of works
                  materials, such as             ·    Disturbance to habitats/ loss of fauna and flora species during road              and work seasonally, as appropriate/ no
                  combustive-lubricating ones,        rehabilitation works                                                              construction during breeding season
                  bitumen/ heating and           ·    Disruption of wildlife passages, local migration routes and patterns              ·         Trees and other vegetation should
                  spraying of bitumen                 causing increased road kills, etc.                                                be protected during bitumen spraying
                  ·   Heavy machinery and        ·    Changes to aquatic eco-systems due to increased sediment runoff                   ·         To avoid excessive/ to minimize
                  equipment operation                 into waterways due to construction/ modification of drainage                      loss of vegetation during road
                  ·   Traffic of construction         patterns                                                                          rehabilitation works
                  vehicles, machinery, etc.                                                                                             ·         Big potholes should be either
                  ·   Hauling of constructional                                                                                         covered or sand or fenced if they are going
                  materials                                                                                                             to left opened over nigh
                  ·   Rehabilitation of road                                                                                            ·         To avoid loud beep signals from
                  drainage system (drainage                                                                                             vehicles and machinery in the areas where
                  channels, chutes, etc.)                                                                                               wild animals inhabit
                  ·   Constructional materials                                                                                          ·         Ideally, to provide passages
                  stockpiling                                                                                                           through the road for animals/ wire fence in
                  ·   Construction waste                                                                                                sites where wild animals inhabit

                                                                                       78

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                disposals                                                                                                             ·        Careful selection of sites to be
                                                                                                                                      used for constructional materials
                                                                                                                                      stockpiles/ construction wastes disposals
                                                                                                                                      ·        Use of appropriate construction
                                                                                                                                      methods
                                                                                                                                      ·        Clean-up of construction sites
                                                                                                                                      ·        Rehabilitate work sites/ asphalt
                                                                                                                                      plant operation sites quarries/ borrow
                                                                                                                                      areas, access roads by planting grass and
                                                                                                                                      trees and other relevant measures

Landscape/      ·   Siting of mobile asphalt    Negative:                                                                 Temporary/  ·           To minimize construction site's
Aesthetic       plant, if appropriate/ relevant  ·    Local visual impacts/ marred landscape                              Local       size to minimize impact on landscape/
                construction works               ·    Damage to vegetation along the roads                                            careful planning, siting and design of works
                ·   Construction of detours/     ·    Damage to or degradation to some natural and manmade landscape                  ·           Screening/ fencing of intrusive
                access routes/ haul roads             valuable sites, if any, due to easier access                                    items
                ·   Earthworks/ quarrying/       ·    Loss of trees and other vegetation                                              ·           Careful de-commissioning of
                removal and placing borrow       ·    Dust, waste, debris etc. during road rehabilitation works                       construction areas/ waste disposal sites//
                materials                                                                                                             clean up construction sites after road
                 ·  Traffic of construction                                                                                           rehabilitation works are finished/ re-
                 vehicles/ heavy machinery                                                                                            vegetation of work area, etc.
                 and equipment operation                                                                                              ·           Excavated materials, if any,
                ·   Construction/                                                                                                     should be used for backfilling of borrows
                rehabilitation of road                                                                                                and gravel pits
                drainage system
                ·   Constructional materials    Positive:
                stockpiling                        ·    Improved manmade landscape                                        Permanent/
                ·                                                                                                         Local
                    Construction waste
                disposals
                 ·  Establishment of
                 construction camp/
                 accommodation facilities



Human health /   ·     Road rehabilitation      Negative:                                                                 Temporary/  ·        To train personnel on
settlements      works:                          ·    Road accidents due to disruption of traffic flows due to road       Local       occupational safety and measures towards
                          o      excavations          maintenance works                                                               compliance with occupational safety
                          and other earthworks   ·    Health impact on construction workers due to work with toxic and                requirements
                          o      leveling/patch       hazardous materials (damage to respiration system, skin, eyes, etc)             ·        Appropriately experienced
                          ing/priming                 aggravated by unfavorable weather conditions (strong wind, rain,                contractor, good supervision, careful
                          o      pavement             etc.)                                                                           planning and scheduling of work activities
                          o      crushing and    ·    Impact on human health due to:                                                  ·        Incorporation of safety and
                          screening of                     o   Polluted by combustion gases and dust air along the roads              environmental requirements in contract

                                                                                       79

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                        materials                    o    Polluted surface run-off into adjacent agricultural lands and    documents/ providing of workers with
                        o        heating of               agricultural plants contamination                                uniform, glasses, gloves, etc.
                        bitumen                      o    Noise pollution and vibrations from construction works,          ·         Foreseeing compensations in
                        o        repair of                traffic of vehicles and operating machinery/ equipment           case of health damage
                        aggregates             · Fire and explosion hazards due to accidents during road                   ·         Fencing of dangerous areas
                        o        construction    construction works                                                        (stockpiling of hazardous materials)
                        & reconstruction of    · Construction vehicles road accidents                                      ·         Excavated potholes should be
                        drainage channels;     · Accidents during road rehabilitation works (spills, blasts, etc.)         either covered with crushed stone or sand
                        etc.                   · Accidents due to disruption of traffic flows due to road construction     or fenced if they are going to left opened
                 ·    Hazardous, toxic and       works                                                                     over nigh
                 inflammable materials         · Pressure on local water supply sources                                    ·         Avoid work during unfavorable
                 loading-unloading,                                                                                        weather conditions to minimize risk of
                 transportation and disposal                                                                               accidents/ bitumen should be not applied
                 ·    asphalt plant operation                                                                              during strong winds or heavy rains
                 ·    traffic of construction                                                                              ·         Proper establishment of
                 vehicles                                                                                                  construction camp/ temporary
                 ·    Constructional                                                                                       accommodation
                 materials stockpiling                                                                                     ·         To ensure accident prevention for
                 ·    Construction waste                                                                                   population in residential areas/ to plan
                 disposals                                                                                                 carefully construction works to minimize
                                                                                                                           impact on local residents
                                                                                                                           ·         Restrict transportation of
                                                                                                                           hazardous/ explosive materials in
                                                                                                                           residential areas/ comply with regulation on
                                                                                                                           transportation of hazardous materials
                                                                                                                           ·         Restrict construction vehicle
                                                                                                                           speed limits, especially in residential areas
                                                                                                                           ·         Careful timing of works to
                                                                                                                           minimize disturbance especially during
                                                                                                                           night time
                                                                                                                           ·         Ideally, to design acoustic barriers
                                                                                                                           along the roads in residential areas
                                                                                                                           ·         To construct/ rehabilitate
                                                                                                                           sidewalks in residential areas/ the required
                                                                                                                           width of the sidewalk corresponds to the
                                                                                                                           intensity of pedestrian's traffic (final
                                                                                                                           determination of the location shall be
                                                                                                                           arranged with local stakeholders)
                                                                                                                           ·         Road warning signs posting to
                                                                                                                           warn road users about rehabilitation
                                                                                                                           works/ warn road users about traffic
                                                                                                                           diversion
                                                                                                                           ·         Provide advise to the public on
                                                                                                                           shorter alternative routs/bypasses
                                                                                  80

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                                                                                    shorter alternative routs/bypasses
                                                                                                                                    ·        To ensure proper constructional
                                                                                                                                    materials stockpiling/ construction waste
                                                                                                                                    disposals
                                                                                                                                    ·        Stone crushing plants; asphalt
                                                                                                                                    plants should be fitted with approved dust
                                                                                                                                    control devices and operate in accordance
                                                                                                                                    with environmental protection requirements
                                                                                                                                    and manufacturer' specifications
                                                                                                                                    ·        To ensure regular watering of
                                                                                                                                    roads under rehabilitation to minimize
                                                                                                                                    formation of dust
                                                                                                                                    ·        Ideally, to install speed calming
                                                                                                                                    devices, e.g. humps, in residential areas
                                                                                                                                    ·        To ensure emergency medical
                                                                                                                                    service/ to provide telephone
                                                                                                                                    communication
                                                                                                                                    ·        To ensure proper sanitary-
                                                                                                                                    hygienic facilities (sewage disposal)/
                                                                                                                                    appropriate waste disposal
                                                                                                                                    ·        Water for road construction works
                                                                                                                                    should be obtained from such sources and
                                                                                                                                    such amount that would not affect
                                                                                                                                    appropriate domestic water supply in the
                                                                                                                                    area of concern

                                           Positive:
                                           ·        Decreased risk of car and local residents accidents due to
                                           improved road conditions                                                     Permanent/
                                           ·        Decreased risk to health damage due to reduction of air pollution   Local
                                           by combustion gases
                                           ·        Decreased risk to health damage due to lessening of polluted
                                           surface runoff to agricultural lands

Social/ Economic Road rehabilitation       Positive:                                                                    Permanent /
                                           ·        Creation of job opportunities/ recruitment of the labor force among local
                                           local population/ temporary decrease of unemployment in residential areas
                                           along the road
                                           ·        Development of relevant work skills at local residents
                                           ·        reduction of vehicles operating cost;
                                           ·        less fuel consuming,
                                           ·        safe driving and riding;
                                           ·        better transportation conditions/ less time for transportation of

                                                                                 81

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                           passengers, goods, livestock, etc.
                                           ·        opportunity to create new work places along the road: filling
                                           station, shops bars, parking facilities
                                           ·        improved communication opportunities between settlements/ local
                                           residents
                                           etc.




                                                                                  82

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Table 2.       Environmental and Social Impacts for Road Operation Phase

Environmental   Project activity         Potential Negative and PositiveImpacts                                           Scale of the  Suggested Mitigation Measures
and social                                                                                                                impact
components

Soils and land  Existence of the road     Negative:                                                                        Permanent/
                Surface runoff from the   ·       Continuous damage to land/ erosion and landslide potential/              Local         · Planting of trees and bushes along
                road                      formation of gullies on slopes along drainage channels                                         the roads (on an appropriate distance)
                Vehicles traffic          ·       Soil pollution due to contaminated by fuel and its compounds                           · To provide roadways/ protection strips
                Passenger/ goods          (esp. heavy metals) surface runoff                                                             along the roads, if appropriate
                transportation            ·       Soil pollution due to run-off/migration of spills/leaks from vehicles                 ·    Proper construction of road drainage
                Road associated           ·       Soil pollution by wastes produced by infrastructure connected                         system
                infrastructure            with services located along the road (parking, food facilities, filling                       ·    Road police and ecological authorities
                                          stations, restaurants, bars, shops, etc.)                                                     to check regularly vehicles quality and their
                                                                                                                                        compliance with standards quality
                                                                                                                                        ·    Road police to properly control traffic
                                                                                                                                        of vehicles to minimize risk of accidents
                                                                                                                                        ·    To control properly development and
                                                                                                                                        operating of road associated infrastructure/
                                                                                                                                        food, sanitary/car filling/ parking facilities
                                                                                                                                        ·    To undertake continuous measures
                                          Positive:                                                                                     towards prevention and minimization of
                                          ·    Decreased land degradation potentials/ gullies formation as                              erosion
                                               compared to previous road conditions                                        Permanent/
                                          ·    Reduced soil pollution, soil erosion and landslides resulted from           Local

                                               rehabilitated drainage system
                                          ·    Decreased risk of landslides due to slope stabilization

Water Resources Existence of the road     Negative:                                                                        Permanent/
                Traffic of vehicles       Pollution of groundwater by contaminated surface runoff from the road:           Local        ·         Road police and ecological
                Surface runoff from the             o    compounds of fuel (esp. heavy metals)                                          authorities to check regularly vehicles
                road                                o    petroleum hydrocarbons                                                         quality and their compliance with technical
                Passenger/ goods          Accidental pollution of groundwater by spills during road accidents                           standards quality
                transportation            Reduction in groundwater recharge due to installed road drainage system                       ·         Road police to properly control
                Road associated           Potential for interrupting or lasting lowering of underground water table                     vehicles conditions to minimize risk of
                infrastructure            due to road operation                                                                         accidents/ accidental spills
                                          Groundwater pollution by wastes produced by road associated                                   ·         To control properly road drainage
                                          infrastructure associated (parking, food, sanitary facilities, filling stations,              system to avoid soil erosion/ sedimentation
                                          shops, bars, etc.).                                                                           of waterways/direct runoff to waterways/
                                                                                                                                        turbidity of waterways
                                                                                                                                        ·         To plant trees and bushes to
                                                                                                                                        prevent surface erosion and landslides

                                                                                   83

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                                                                                    ·        To control properly development
                                                                                                                                    and operation of road associated
                                                                                                                                    infrastructure along the roads (food and
                                                                                                                                    parking facilities, filling stations, recreation
                                                                                                                                    stops, etc.)
                                         Positive:                                                                      Permanent/
                                             ·    Reduced water pollution resulted from rehabilitated drainage          Local
                                                  systems as compared to previous road condition
                                             ·    Decrease risk of under-flooding due to rehabilitated drainage
                                                  system as compared to previous road condition
                                             ·    Decreased siltation of waterways (if any) due to lower erosion
                                                  potential as compared to previous road condition
                                             ·    Decreased turbidity of waterways (if nay )/ decreased fine-grained
                                                  sediment run-off to surface waters as compared to previous road
                                                  condition

Air/ Acoustic    Traffic of vehicles     Negative:                                                                      Permanent/
                 Emission from vehicles  ·        Air pollution by components of combustion gases (CO2 , NOx).          Local       ·          Designing and planting
                                         ·        Noise pollution/ vibration from traffic of vehicles (esp. tracks) in              vegetation (buffer strips) along the roads to
                                         residential areas                                                                          minimize spreading of combustion gases
                                                                                                                                    ·          To avoid laud beep signals in
                                                                                                                                    settlements/ to minimize disturbance to
                                                                                                                                    residents
                                                                                                                                    ·          Ideally, to construct noise
                                                                                                                                    prevention barriers in residential areas
                                                                                                                                    ·          Restrictions on vehicles speed,
                                                                                                                                    especially along residential areas
                                                                                                                                    ·          Vehicles to comply with engine
                                                                                                                                    brake norms, especially in residential areas
                                         Positive:
                                             ·    Reduction of emissions into the air / reduction of air pollution by   Permanent/
                                                  combustion gases as compared to previous road conditions              Local
Fauna and flora/ Existence of the road   Negative:                                                                      Permanent/
habitats         Traffic of vehicles     ·        Continuous damage to biodiversity                                     Local       ·          Traffic signs posting along the
                 Road associated         ·        Continuous damage/ disturbance to habitats                                        roads (indication of speed limits, warning
                 infrastructure          ·        Death of wild animals due to road accidents                                       about valuable habitats and animals
                                         ·        Disturbance to wild animal passages/ local migration routes and                   inhabited in the area, etc)
                                         patterns                                                                                   ·          To ensure stricter control to
                                         ·        Changes of aquatic eco-systems due to sedimentation potential in                  conserve biodiversity/ poaching and illegal
                                         waterways                                                                                  cutting prevention
                                         ·        Secondary contamination of biota due to pollution potential of soil               ·          To provide appropriately
                                         and water in the area of road operation/ pollution of vegetation along the                 designed rest stops to minimize impact on
                                         roads by emitted combustion gases and their compounds (esp. heavy                          environment

                                                                                  84

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                          metals)                                                                                 ·           To undertake continuous
                                                                                                                                  measures towards prevention and
                                                                                                                                  minimization of erosion
                                                                                                                                  ·           Continuous vegetation/ re-
                                                                                                                                  vegetation along the roads
                                                                                                                                  ·           To ensure compliance of
                                                                                                                                  vehicles conditions with technical
                                                                                                                                  standards to minimize risk of
                                                                                                                                  environmental pollution (air, soil, water)
                                                                                                                                  ·           Ideally, to provide facilities for
                                                                                                                                  wildlife to cross the road, e.g. tunnels
                                                                                                                                  ·           Ideally, to ensure protection
                                                                                                                                  measures to avoid danger to animal
                                                                                                                                  species due to road accidents (e.g., fences
                                                                                                                                  along the roads, where acceptable and
                                                                                                                                  possible)



Landscape/      Existence of the road     Negative:                                                                   Permanent/
Aesthetic       Road associated               ·    Loss of vegetation/ poor vegetation                                Local       ·           Planting of trees (at allowed
                infrastructure                ·    Impaired lands/ loss of some land uses along the roads                         distance) and bushes to improve the
                                              ·    Garbage/ waste disposals along the roads                                       landscape
                                                                                                                                  ·           Planting of trees to stabilize the
                                                                                                                                  slops/ prevent soil erosion and landslides
                                                                                                                                  ·           To control properly development
                                                                                                                                  and operation of road associated
                                                                                                                                  infrastructure
                                              Positive:                                                               Permanent/
                                              ·    Improved visual effects/ improved conditions of surroundings/      Local
                                                   manmade landscape

Human health /  Existence of the road     Negative:                                                                   Permanent/
settlements     Traffic of vehicles       ·        Car accidents                                                      Local       ·         To provide regular road quality
                Road crossing by humans   ·        Killed and injured humans due to road accidents                                control and maintenance
                and domestic animals      ·        Domestic animals accidents                                                     ·         To provide highway stripping
                Road crossing by cars from·        Damage to health due air pollution by combustion gases and dust                ·         To provide emergency strips
                country roads             (esp. in settlements)                                                                   along the road, where appropriate
                Passenger/ goods          ·        Damage to health due to consumption of agricultural products                   ·          To provide outside stone, wire or
                transportation            drown up on adjacent agricultural lands affected by contaminated surface                other suitable types of barriers in
                                          run-off                                                                                 dangerous sites on the road, if any, to
                                          ·        Noise pollution/ vibrations from vehicles traffic (esp. tracks)                minimize risk of road accidents
                                          ·        Disturbance to over night sleep in settlements                                 ·         To provide parking facilities for
                                                                                                                                  accidental drive in and drive out along the

                                                                                  85

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                                     road, where appropriate
                                                                                     ·           Road police and ecological
                                                                                     authorities to check regularly vehicles
                                                                                     quality and their compliance with air, noise
                                                                                     and technical standards quality
                                                                                     ·           Restrict vehicle speed limits, esp.
                                                                                     at the entrance and in the residential areas
                                                                                     in order to minimize the risk of pedestrian's
                                                                                     injury
                                                                                     ·           The passage through the village
                                                                                     shall be speed controlled in combination
                                                                                     with measures for the improvement of
                                                                                     visibility: 30 km/h, 50 km/h
                                                                                     ·           Provide pedestrian's sidewalk in
                                                                                     the residential areas (esp. in village
                                                                                     centers, schools, outside of curves, etc.)
                                                                                     ·           Road police to properly control
                                                                                     vehicles traffic to minimize risk of road
                                                                                     accidents
                                                                                     ·           Road signs posting with indication
                                                                                     of speed limits along the road out of
                                                                                     settlements in dependence of type of
                                                                                     landscape - flat, hilly; road geometry
                                                                                     (curved turnings), etc.
                                                                                     ·           To plant trees along the roads (at
                                                                                     allowed distance) to prevent excessive air
                                                                                     pollution especially along residential areas
                                                                                     ·           To provide telephone and other
                                                                                     communication facilities along the road to
                                                                                     immediately inform about accident, if any
                                                                                     ·           To provide road traffic sings with
                                                                                     indication of distance to medical centers/
                                                                                     rest facilities/ name of settlements
                                                                                     ·           To organize properly public
                                                                                     transport stops to exclude risk of humans
                                                                                     accidents. Asphalted bus station shall be
                                                                                     organized offside the main road, probably
                                                                                     at a side road
                                                                                     ·           Install warning for drivers about
                                                                                     pedestrians on the road/ provide facilitates
                                                                                     (road traffic signs, regulated traffic lights)
                                                                                     for pedestrians to cross the road
                                                                                     ·           Install speed control devices
                                                                                      l      th      d        i ll   t th    t
                                                               86

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                      Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                                                                               along the road, especially at the entrance
                                                                                                                               to settlements, near rural school, schools,
                                                                                                                               if any
                                         Positive:                                                                 Permanent/
                                         ·         Decreased number of car accidents due to improved road          Local
                                         conditions/ safe driving and riding
                                         ·         Decrease number of killed and injured people due to improved
                                         road conditions
                                         ·         Lower damage to health due to reduction of air pollution by
                                         combustion gases as compared to previous road conditions
                                         ·         Lower damage to health due to decreased polluted surface runoff
                                         to agricultural lands as compared to previous road conditions
                                         ·         Improved communication opportunities between settlements/
                                         local residents
Social/ Economic                         Positive:                                                                 Permanent/
                                         ·    Reduced vehicles operating cost as compared to previous road         Local
                                         conditions
                                         ·    Improved access to settlements
                                         ·    Improved access to labor, goods, livestock and other markets
                                         ·    Reduced transportation cost to markets
                                         ·    Improved opportunities for business activities
                                         ·    Development of employment and business opportunities associated
                                         with road operation (road associated infrastructure - shops, bars,
                                         restaurants; selling of homemade articles and household agricultural
                                         products, etc.)
                                         ·    Increase of household income
                                         ·    Reduced time needed to reach destination point
                                         ·    Improved access to hospitals/ health centers and educational
                                         institutions for rural population
                                         ·    Improved access to recreation sites in rural area
                                         ·    More opportunities for tourism business development (easier access
                                         to cultural, natural and other heritage sites)
                                               etc.




                                                                                   87

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                       Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Table 3.       Environmental and Social Impacts for Road Maintenance Phase

Environmental    Project activity             Potential Negative and Positive Impacts                                     Scale of the  Suggested Mitigation Measures
and social                                                                                                                impact
components

Soils and land   ·   Periodical & Routine      Negative:                                                                   Temporary/   ·    To plan carefully maintenance works
                maintenance:                   ·      Land damage and soil pollution along the road due to disposal of     Local        to minimize surface area under the impact
                 ·   light - & medium ­scale   constructional materials, leaks from road maintenance machinery and                      from road maintenance activities/ to ensure
                     grading                   equipment                                                                                construction work accuracy
                 ·   Culvert repair            ·      Soil pollution due to surface run-off contaminated by petroleum                   ·    Excavated materials should be
                       Clearance of drainage   hydrocarbons/ engine oil, lubricants/ compounds of fuel (esp. heavy                      appropriately stockpiles and covered so
                       channels                metals)                                                                                  that they will be not washed away into
                       Leveling of roadsides   ·      Soil pollution by spills due to vehicles accidents and broken                     downland watercourses
                       Potholes patching       equipment, vehicles and machinery used for road maintenance works                        ·    Form offshoots to split flow in the drain
                       Cracks priming          (engine oil, lubricants)                                                                 to minimize risk of soil erosion
                       Winter maintenance      ·      Soil pollution due to improperly arranged constructional materials                ·    Ideally, to construct ditches, soak pits
                       (snow removal, dusting  and wastes disposals                                                                     to prevent waste water being discharged
                       by sand-salt mixture)   ·      Soil pollution due to improperly arranged accommodation facilities                into agricultural land and homesteads to
                 ·   Operation of machinery    for workers (sewage system, etc.)                                                        minimize risk of soil pollution
                and equipment                                                                                                           ·    To ensure accuracy of machinery and
                 ·   Traffic of construction                                                                                            equipment used for maintenance works to
                 vehicles                                                                                                               minimize risk of accidental spills
                 ·   Constructional materials                                                                                           ·    To ensure appropriate stockpiling of
                 stockpiling                                                                                                            constructional materials
                 ·   Construction wastes                                                                                                ·    To ensure proper construction waste
                disposals                                                                                                               disposal sites
                 ·   Short-term                                                                                                         ·    To organize properly short-term
                 accommodation facilities for                                                                                           accommodation facilities to prevent soil
                 road workers                                                                                                           pollution and damage to land
                                                                                                                                        ·    Ideally, to fence repair area to restrict
                                                                                                                                        damage of surrounding lands
                                                                                                                                        ·    To clean up the work area after repair
                                                                                                                                        works are completed

                                               Positive:                                                                   Permanent/
                                              ·   Decreased risk of soil pollution, soil erosion and landslides resulting  Local

                                                  from maintenance of drainage system
                                              ·   Decreased risk of land degradation potentials/ gullies formation

Water Resources  ·   Periodical & Routine      Negative:                                                                   Temporary/   ·        To plan carefully maintenance
                 maintenance:                 Groundwater pollution due to surface run-off contaminated by petroleum       Local        works to minimize surface area under the
                 ·   light - & medium ­scale  hydrocarbons/ engine oil, lubricants/ compounds of fuel (esp. heavy                       impact from roan maintenance activities

                                                                                     88

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                      Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                    grading                  metals)                                                                                     ·        To ensure accuracy of road
                ·   Culvert repair/           Groundwater pollution by spills due to vehicles accidents and broken                       maintenance works/ machinery and
                    replacement               equipment, vehicles and machinery used for road maintenance works                          equipment used for repair work
                      Clearance of drainage   (engine oil, lubricants)                                                                   ·        To provide proper stockpiling of
                      channels                Groundwater pollution due to improperly arranged constructional                            constructional materials
                      Levelling of roadsides  materials and construction wastes disposals                                                ·        To provide proper constructional
                      Potholes patching       Groundwater pollution by wastes produced by infrastructure connected                       materials waste disposals
                      Cracks priming          with temporary workers' camps (improperly arranged toilet facilities, etc.)                ·        Excavated materials should be
                      Winter maintenance      Groundwater pollution due to improperly arranged accommodation                             used properly stockpiled and covered to
                      (snow removal, dusting  facilities for workers (sewage system, etc.)                                               prevent their washing away
                      by sand-salt mixture)   Increased siltation potential/ sediment runoff into downland waterways (if                 ·        To arrange interception ditches, to
                ·   Operation of machinery    any) due to repair/ clearance of drainage channels/ culvers                                prevent muddy water to reach waterways
                and equipment                 Increased turbidity of downland waterways (if any)                                         (if any)
                ·   Traffic of construction   Increased pressure on water resources due to additional water use for                      ·        To provide infiltration ditches/
                vehicles                      road maintenance works                                                                     soak pits to prevent direct contaminated
                ·   Constructional materials                                                                                             water discharge
                stockpiling                                                                                                              ·        All lubricants and engine oils
                ·   Construction wastes                                                                                                  should be collected and recycled or
                disposals                                                                                                                disposed off site
                ·   Short-term                                                                                                           ·         To organize properly short-term
                accommodation facilities for                                                                                             accommodation facilities for workers
                road workers                                                                                                             ·        To clean up the work area after
                                                                                                                                         repair works are completed
                                                                                                                                         ·        Water for road maintenance
                                                                                                                                         works should be obtained from such
                                                                                                                                         sources and such amount that would not
                                                                                                                                         affect appropriate domestic water supply in
                                                                                                                                         the area of concern
                                             Positive:
                                             ·                                                                              Permanent/
                                                 Decreased risk of water pollution/ sedimentation/ turbidity of
                                                                                                                            Local
                                                 waterways resulting from maintenance of drainage systems
                                             ·   Decreased risk of under-flooding resulting from maintenance of
                                                 drainage system




Air/ Acoustic   ·   Periodical & Routine     Negative:                                                                       Temporary/
                maintenance:                 ·         Emissions into the air/ air pollution by components of combustion    Local        ·          To plan carefully maintenance
                      Rood repair works      gases (CO2 , NOx)                                                                           works to minimize air and acoustic
                ·   Culvert repair/          ·         Local impairment of air quality during mixing of raw materials                   pollution
                    replacement/ clearance   ·         Noise pollution/ vibration from traffic of construction vehicles and              ·          Control road maintenance
                    of drainage channels     operating machinery and equipment                                                           methods and of works (to avoid

                                                                                     89

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                        Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                        Winter maintenance                                                                                            maintenance works in residential areas
                  ·   Traffic of construction                                                                                         over night)
                  vehicles                                                                                                            ·          To minimize disturbance/ restrict
                  ·   Operation of machinery                                                                                          road maintenance works to certain hours/
                  and equipment                                                                                                       timing of works
                                                                                                                                      ·          Either use of sprinkling-
                                                                                                                                      machines "inhaling" dust...
                                                                                                                                      ·          or control by water or other
                                                                                                                                      means/ water spaying twice a day during
                                                                                                                                      construction to avoid dust
                                                                                                                                      ·          Speed restrictions of vehicles
                                                                                                                                      used for road maintenance, especially in
                                                                                                                                      residential areas
                                                                                                                                      ·          Vehicles transported materials
                                                                                                                                      for road maintenance (e.g., sand) should
                                                                                                                                      be covered to avoid extra dusting
                                               Positive:
                                               ·   Decreased risk of air pollution due to reduction of combustion gases   Permanent/
                                                   emissions into the air as a result of proper maintenance of the road   Local




Fauna and flora/  ·   Periodical & Routine     Negative:                                                                  Temporary/
habitats          maintenance:                 ·         Disturbance to habitats                                          Local       ·          To plan carefully road
                  ·   Repair of pavement       ·         Disturbance to wild animals passages, local migration routes and             maintenance works to minimize
                  ·   Culvert repair/          patterns                                                                               disturbance to habitats/ animal species
                      replacement/ clearance   ·         Death of wild animals due to road accidents                                  inhabited in the area
                      of drainage channels     ·         Pollution of vegetation along the roads by heated emitted                    ·          Careful timing of works
                  ·   Care of vegetation along combustion gases and their compounds (esp. heavy metals) and other                     and work seasonally, as appropriate/ no
                      the road                 hazardous substance                                                                    construction during breeding season
                        Winter maintenance     ·         Pollution of environmental media (soil, water, air)                          ·          Trees, vegetation should be
                  ·   Operation of machinery   ·         Noise pollution/ vibration due to operation machinery/ equipment             protected during bitumen spraying
                 and equipment                 ·         Noise pollution due to traffic of construction vehicles                      ·          Proper arrangement of
                  ·   Traffic of construction  ·         Disruption of wildlife passages, local migration routes and                  constructional material stockpiles and
                  vehicles                     patterns causing increased road kills, etc.                                            construction waste disposals to minimize
                  ·   Constructional materials ·         Changes to aquatic eco-systems due to increased sediment                     environmental pollution
                  stockpiling                  runoff into waterways due to repair/ replacement of drainage system                    ·          Excavated potholes should be
                  ·   Construction wastes                                                                                             either covered with crushed stone/sand or
                 disposals                                                                                                            fenced if they are going to left opened
                  ·   Short-term                                                                                                      during certain period of time
                  accommodation facilities for                                                                                        ·          To arrange properly
                  road workers                                                                                                        accommodation facilities to minimize
                                                                                       90

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                road workers                                                                                                          accommodation facilities to minimize
                                                                                                                                      environmental pollution
                                                                                                                                      ·           Clean-up the site after work
                                                                                                                                      maintenance works are finished
                                             Positive:
                                                ·    Care of green plantations along the roads                            Permanent/
                                                                                                                          Local

Landscape/      ·         Road repair works  Negative:                                                                    Temporary/  ·           To plan carefully maintenance
Aesthetic       ·         Stockpile of          ·    Littering of territory adjacent to the road                          Local       works to minimize impact on landscape
                constructional materials/       ·    Damage to landscape due to waste & excavated materials                           ·           Clean-up the site after work
                construction waste disposals         disposals/ stockpiling of constructional materials                               maintenance works are finished
                                                                                                                                      ·           Excavated materials, if any
                                                                                                                                      should be used for backfilling of borrows
                                                                                                                                      and gravel pits
                                                                                                                                      ·           To arrange properly
                                                                                                                                      accommodation facilities
                                                Positive:                                                                 Permanent/
                                                ·    Improved manmade landscape                                           Local
Human health /  ·         Road repair works  Negative:                                                                    Temporary/
settlements     ·         Traffic of         ·       Road accidents due to disruption of traffic flows due to             Local       ·         To train road workers on
                construction vehicles        maintenance works                                                                        occupational safety
                ·         Operation of road  ·       Impact on human health due to:                                                   ·         Restrict vehicle speed limits, esp.
                repair machinery/equipment                o    Polluted by combustion gases and dust air along the                    at the entrance and in the residential areas
                ·         Stockpile of                         roads                                                                  in order to minimize the risk of humans
                constructional materials/                 o    Polluted surface run-off into adjacent agricultural lands              injury
                construction waste disposals              o    Noise pollution/ vibrations from hauling tracks/ moving                ·         Warning signs posting and advice
                ·         Short-term                           vehicles and working equipment                                         for drivers to use alternative roads to avoid
                accommodation facilities for ·       Fire and explosion hazards due to accidents during road                          delays due to road maintenance works
                road workers                 maintenance works                                                                        ·         Road signs posting with indication
                                             ·       Health impact on road workers due to work with hazardous                         of speed limits
                                             materials                                                                                ·         To control vehicles traffic during
                                             ·       Pressure on local water supply sources                                           road maintenance works
                                                                                                                                      ·         To provide telephone and other
                                                                                                                                      communication facilities to immediately
                                                                                                                                      inform about accident, if any
                                                                                                                                      ·         Excavated potholes should be
                                                                                                                                      either covered with crushed stone or sand
                                                                                                                                      or fenced if they are going to left opened
                                                                                                                                      over nigh to avoid humans injury
                                                                                                                                      ·         Excavate cutoff ditch around
                                                                                                                                      stockpiles to prevent materials being
                                                                                                                                      washed away by surface runoff to minimize
                                                                                                                                      risk of soil and water pollution
                                                                                    91

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                    Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                                                                                     risk of soil and water pollution
                                                                                                                                     ·          Stockpiles materials should be
                                                                                                                                     covered with fabric or other materials;
                                                                                                                                     ·          Avoid stockpiling near waterways
                                                                                                                                     (if any) or on slopes
                                                                                                                                     ·          Proper stockpiling of
                                                                                                                                     constructional materials and construction
                                                                                                                                     wastes disposals
                                                                                                                                     ·          Water for road maintenance
                                                                                                                                     works should be obtained from such
                                                                                                                                     sources and such amount that would not
                                                                                                                                     affect appropriate domestic water supply in
                                                                                                                                     the area of concern
                                                                                                                                     ·          To ensure proper accommodation
                                                                                                                                     facilities for road workers to minimize
                                                                                                                                     possible health impact

                                           Positive:                                                                     Permanent/
                                           ·        Decreased risk of car and local residents accidents due to           Local
                                           properly maintained road conditions
                                           ·        Decreased risk to health damage due to reduction of air pollution
                                           by combustion gases as a result of properly maintained road conditions
                                           ·        Decreased risk to health damage due to lessening of polluted
                                           surface runoff to agricultural lands as a result of properly maintained road
                                           conditions
Social/ Economic ·       Road maintenance Positive:                                                                      Temporary/
                 works                     ·   Job opportunities for local people/ giving preferences to local           Permanent/
                                           communities in awarding road maintenance labor contracts                      Local
                                           ·   Development of relevant work skills
                                           ·   etc. (for details refer to Table 1)




                                                                                  92

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                            Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 3. Model23 of the Environmental Screening Checklist for road sub-projects

PART 1 (to be completed by the SRA environmental specialist with assistance from the SRA
field engineer and consultant assistance (as needed)

1. Sub-project Name:

2. Format for brief description of sub-project24.
Item                                 Description
nature (background) of the
sub-project
sub-project objectives
physical size (length, (km),
other indicators (if applicable)
site area (location)
executing agency (if known)
beneficiaries
type of sub-project (new road,
expansion, rehabilitation or
maintenance),
appurtenant facilities (bridges,
warehouses, deposits, carriers,
asphalt plants, etc.) with short
description

3. Format for brief description of sub-project corridor and related sites25
Item                                                            Description
Socio-             Affected      inhabitants       (localities,
economic           population, indigenous peoples, etc)
environment        Land use along the road (urban,
                   agricultural, forests, pastures, waters,
                   historic/cultural       sites,      nature
                   protection sites, etc.)
                   Local economy (industry, farming,
                   fishery, commerce, etc.)
                   Transportation          (traffic       rate,
                   passengers, goods, livestock, etc.)
Natural            Topography and geology (slopes,
environment        ravines,    landslides,    soft   grounds,
                   wetlands)
                   Surface    and     groundwater      (rivers,
                   hydrology, water table, water sources,
                   water quality, etc.)
                   Fauna and Flora, (habitats of rare and
                   endangerous        species,     migration,
                   major ecosystems, etc.)
Pollution          Existing known sources of air, soil,
                   water pollution and wastes.
Other


4.       Format for potential environmental impacts identification26

23Model is prepared as example and may be slightly modified if specific aspects will be found important during
sub-project selection.
24Format to be filled by available existing data and information. In some cases professional judgment may be apply
with relevant indications.
25Format to be filled by available existing data and information. In some cases professional judgment may be apply
with relevant indications.

                                                          93

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                         Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Item                            Evaluation (short description of                If any            If mitigation
                         anticipated impacts and its significance)            additional        measures will
                         Construction Phase       Operational Phase         study will be         be required
                                                                              required             (YES/NO)
                                                                              (YES/NO)
                                                                           if YES indicate
                                                                                details
Socio-economic environment
Resettlement
Economic activities
Traffic and public
facilities
Cultural/historic
property
Rights (land, water,
common)
Public health
Hazards (risk)
Natural environment
Topography and
Geology
Soil
Surface water
Groundwater
Flora and Fauna
Pollution
Air pollution
Water pollution
Soil contamination
Noise and Vibration
Offensive odor
Wastes
Other



Important issues to be considered during evaluation of impacts are summarizing below as
examples for assessment:
·    Resettlement - needs for re-allocation of peoples, houses, facilities due to additional land occupancy
·    Economic activities ­ loss or significant limitation for normal economic activities near sub-project
     corridor (sites)
·    Traffic and public facilities ­ impacts on present traffic conditions (car's speed, traffic rate, accidents,
     use of detour roads and relevant impacts) and impacts to vulnerable public facilities (schools,
     hospitals, etc.)
·    Cultural/historic property ­ damage or loss of value of churches, temples, archeological remains or
     other cultural assets
·    Rights (land-use, water-use, water abstraction, common) ­ obstruction of respective rights due to
     construction (temporal or permanent)
·    Public health ­ worsening of public health due to air pollution and wastes
·    Hazards (risk) ­ increase in danger from ground failure, landslides, ravines, etc.
·    Topography and Geology ­ changes of valuable topography and geology due to excavation works,
     deterioration of aesthetic harmony by structures


26
   Will the sub-project have impacts on the environmental parameters listed below during construction or
operational phases? Indicate during what phase impacts will occur, is any additional study will be required and
whether mitigation measures are required with a check.


                                                      94

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                            Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·    Soil ­ top soil erosion by rainfalls due to land reclamation, improvement of roads sides, cleaning of
     water by-pass
·    Surface water ­ changes of river flows, sedimentation and riverbeds conditions due to construction
     and bridges repairing
·    Groundwater ­ changes of groundwater table and flows due to construction works
·    Flora and Fauna ­ loss or significant impacts to natural habitats, particularly to rare species,
     obstacles for migration
·    Air pollution ­ pollution caused by exhaust gas, operation of asphalt plants, transportation of
     constructional materials
·    Water pollution ­ pollution caused by accidental spills, improperly stored lubricants, wastes,
     constructional materials, etc.
·    Soil contamination ­ due to wastes and spills
·    Noise and Vibration ­ generated by construction machines, vehicles, construction works
·    Offensive odor ­ generated by asphalt preparation facilities, bitumen works, etc.
·    Wastes ­ generated during construction
·    Other ­ other potential impacts and impacts of unfavorable natural factors to the sub-project
     operation (like floods, extreme temperatures, strong winds, rainfalls, etc.)



5.       Format for identification of mitigation measures27

Environmental Issue                Phase (C, O or        Description of mitigation measures
                                   B)




6. Summary of public consultation (location, participants, summary conclusion,
comments)

____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________




27For the environmental issues that were indicated under point 4 with a check, describe the mitigation measures that
will be included during the construction (C) or operational (O) phase of the sub-project or both (B)

                                                         95

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project               Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




PART 2 (to be completed by the SRA environmental specialist and confirmed by the relevant
environmental authority (Rayon Ecological Inspector, State Ecological Inspectorate, State
Ecological Expertise) based on the findings of the environmental screening and scoping
process)

7. Environmental "Risk" Category (B or C) _____

8. Are additional specific studies required? (YES or NO) _____, if YES provide details and
specific issues to be addressed:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________

9. What type of Environmental Assessment is required? (Simple EMP or EIA and EMP)
____________

10. Is the State Ecological Expertise required? (YES or NO) ______, if YES provide details
(authority to submit for reviewing, list of documentation required, time-schedule for
reviewing, etc.):
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________

11. What major environmental and social issues are raised by the sub-project and to be
included in the simple EMP or EIA and EMP?
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________

12. What is the time frame and estimated cost of (1) conducting additional specific
studies, (2) preparation of simple EMP, or (3) preparation of EIA and EMP ?
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________

Signatures (and stamps if applicable):

On behalf of SRA

SRA Environmental Specialist:
Date:
SRA consultant (if needed):
Date:

On behalf of reviewing authority

Reviewing authority:
Name of reviewer:
Working position of reviewer:
Date:




                                                96

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 4. Model28 for simple Environmental Management Plan (category C sub-
projects)

Sub-project activity                                     Potential             Mitigation            Monitoring
                                                         impacts               measures            requirements
                                                         (effects)
1. Planning and Design
1.1. Setting design criteria
1.2. Design, general
1.3. Design, drainage
(if applicable)
1.4. Design, asphalt factory (if applicable)
1.5. Design, (specify any other applicable
designs)
1.6. Land acquisition (if applicable)
1.7. Modification of normal traffic (speed
regulation, use of detour roads, etc.)
1.8. Restrictions (within residential areas,
livestock road passing, for bridges, etc.)
2. Construction Mobilization
2.1. Mobilizing Equipment
2.2. Mobilizing Workforce
2.3. Establishing and Operation of Labor
Camp(s)
2.4. Establishing and Operation of Base Camp,
Deposits, other Facilities and Workshop(s)
2.5. Setting up and Operation of Asphalt Plant
and Asphalt preparation area.
2.6. Operation of Quarry(ies) or Borrow Pit(s)
3. Construction
3.1. Earthworks (specify if applicable)
3.2. Drainage works (specify if applicable)
3.3. Other works if applicable
3.4. Pavement base construction (specify if
applicable)
3.5. Bituminous Surfacing (specify if applicable)
3.6. Transportation of project materials
4. Maintenance
4.1. Periodical & Routine maintenance
(grading, culvert repair, clearance of drainage,
potholes patching, winter works)
4.2. Operation of machinery and equipment
4.3. Traffic of maintaining machines
4.4. Maintaining materials stockpiling and
depositing
4.5. Short-term accommodation facilities for
road workers




28 Model is prepared as example only and should be adapted to the specific aspects of the sub-project.

                                                      97

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                               Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 5. Example29 of the environmental clauses for contract documents in
construction

General

·   Notwithstanding other obligations, if, in the opinion of the Engineer, damage is being done to
    the environment by the Works under construction the SRA environmental specialist or SRA
    supervising engineer may instruct the Contractor to cease work immediately, or change the
    approach or method of work.
·   The Provisional sum, Item ____ in the Bill of Quantities, is for any work deemed to be
    required by the Engineer to remedy any unexpected environmental problems, or potential
    environmental problems, which may arise as a result of the Works. The Engineer may
    instruct either the Contractor, or a nominated Subcontractor, to carry out the work.
·   The Contractor shall ensure that full consideration is given to the control of environmental
    aspects, and that all provisions of the design and specification requirements relating to
    pollution of the environment, and protection of adjacent land and waterways, are complied
    with.

Road works

·   Mobilization of heavy equipment to and from the site shall be carried out at time of lowest
    traffic on the routes used.
·   The Contractor shall use selected routes, as advised by the Engineer, and appropriately
    sized vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to prevent damage to
    roads and bridges used for transportation purposes to the project site. The Contractor shall
    be held responsible for any damage caused to the roads and bridges due to the
    transportation of excessive loads, and shall be required to make good such damage to the
    approval of the engineer.
·   The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road, whose exhaust or noise
    emissions are grossly excessive, and in any built up areas noise mufflers shall be installed
    and maintained in good condition on all motorised equipment under the control of the
    Contractor.
·   The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6am and 10pm if it is to be carried
    out in or near residential areas. The Contractor shall also avoid the use of heavy or noisy
    equipment in specified areas late at night, or in sensitive areas such as near a hospital.
·   To prevent dust pollution during dry periods the Contractor shall carry out regular watering
    of earth and gravel haul roads and shall cover soil haulage trucks with tarpaulins if the soil is
    dry.
·   Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout the
    duration of the Contract, and prior to any restriction being applied to two way traffic
    movement written permission must be obtained from the Engineer for the proposed traffic
    control measures to be used and for the length of time the restriction is proposed to be in
    place.
·   The Contractor shall recruit locally as large a proportion of the workforce as is possible, and
    shall provide appropriate training where necessary.
·   The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any residential
    labour camp established and ensure that this does not cause any pollution of nearby
    watercourses. The contractor shall also make the system inoperative and safe on
    completion of the contract and the removal of the camp.



29Taken from "Environmental Guidelines for reducing the environmental effects of road projects in Lao People's
Democratic Republic, 1995" and should be used as example only. It should be carefully adapted to the specific sub-
project activities, related potential effects identified and mitigation measures proposed.

                                                             98

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·  The Contractor shall establish a method and system for storing and disposing of all solid
   wastes generated by the labor camp and/or the base camp.
·  The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuelwood for heating or cooking in any labor or
   base camp but shall provide alternate facilities using other fuels.
·  The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, asphalt plants and workshops are
   located in appropriate areas, as approved by the Engineer, and not within 500 metres of
   existing residential settlements, and asphalt plans not within 1000 metres.
·  The Contractor shall also ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage areas for
   diesel fuel and bitumen, and asphalt plants, are not located within 500 metres of
   watercourses, and are operated so that no pollutants enter watercourses, either overland or
   through groundwater seepage, especially during periods of heavy rain. This will require
   lubricants to be recycled and a ditch to be constructed around the area with an approved
   settling pond/oil trap at the outlet.
·  The contractor shall not use fuelwood as a means of heating during the processing or
   preparation of any materials forming part of the Works.

Quarries or Borrow Pits
·  Approval to open a new borrow area on land or in river, or to operate an existing area, hall
   be obtained from the Engineer in writing before any borrow operation is commenced, and
   the operation shall cease immediately and permanently at any location when instructed to
   by the Engineer. Pits shall be prohibited, or have restrictions applied to their operation,
   where they might interfere with the natural or designed drainage. River locations shall be
   prohibited where they might undermine or damage the river banks or cause too much fine
   material to be carried downstream.
·  The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy condition with
   stable sides and slopes, and drained so that no stagnant water bodies are created which
   could breed mosquitoes.
·  Rock or gravel won from a river shall be removed over some distance so as to limit the
   depth of material removed to one tenth of the width of river at any one location, and not
   disrupt the river flow or damage or undermine the river banks.
·  The contractor shall ensure that rock crushing plants are located as approve by the
   Engineer, and not close to environmentally sensitive areas, or within one kilometer of
   existing residential settlements, and operated with approved dust control devices fitted.

Earthworks-General
·  The Contractor shall not carry out any earthworks during the rainy season unless specific
   permission is obtained in writing from the Engineer or his representative for properly
   controlled earthworks at specific locations.
·  The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and shall cause the
   minimum possible disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.
·  The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any one
   location as soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation and not leave partly
   completed earthworks, especially during the rainy season.
·  The Contractor shall ensure that any cut or fill slopes are planted in grass or other plant
   cover as soon as possible to protect them from erosion.
·  To prevent erosion cut off drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and bottom of
   slopes as shown on the drawings or as directed by he Engineer.

Earthworks - Disposal of Surplus Material
·  Any spoil cut to waste, or material removed from drains, shall be disposed of to designated
   stable tipping areas as directed b) the Engineer, and separate items are included in the Bill
   of Quantities to allow for this.
·  Side tipping of surplus excavated material shall only be permitted where specifically allowed
   by the Engineer.

                                               99

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




·  Before starting any earth-moving operation at any location the Contractor shall obtain the
   Engineer's approval of the areas he proposes to use as waste dumps.
·  Locations for waste dumps are not to be sites where they will cause future slides, interfere
   with agricultural land or any other properties or cause soil from the dump to be wasted into
   any watercourse. During may need to be dug within and around the waste dumps as
   directed by the Engineer and this, together with the proper placement of the spoil, should be
   allowed for in the cut to waste item in the Schedule of Quantities. The only item in the
   Schedule of Quantities paid for separately is the haul distance (m3 times kms) to the waste
   dump directed by the Engineer.

Drainage Works
·  The Contractor may need to construct temporary drains and particularly temporary
   sedimentation basins and brushwood barriers to avoid excessive sedimentation entering
   local streams river or lakes. These works will be carried out by the Contract when instructed
   to by the Engineer but no separate payment will be made for the work. The onus is therefore
   on the Contractor to carry out all works in such a manner so as to avoid erosion and the
   subsequent of sedimentation.




                                               100

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                  Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Annex 6. Outline of EIA and EMP (category B sub-project)

Typical EIA and EMP report will include following considerations and modalities.

Summary
A summary of the main findings of the study, including the major positive and negative impacts,
proposed mitigation measures and monitoring should be prepared.

Sub-project development objectives
A brief description of the sub-project is required which states objectives, expected alignments,
new construction, major rehabilitation works, area of influence, including length and location,
environmentally and socially sensitive sites.

Policy context (WB, national legislation)
A brief description of WB, EBRD, IDA and other donors in relation to the expected development
is required as well as national policy and legal content. Other national/local plans, programs and
projects within the area of influence can be shortly described and evaluated in the context of
road development objectives.

Baseline
Baseline information for the sub-project area of influence and for proposed alternatives should
be collected, stating actual environmental status and clearly present indicators for further
monitoring of impacts. Baseline information is typically includes socio-economic environment,
bio-physical environment and existing pollution sources. Issues to be studied may include:
·   Topography, geology
·   Soils
·   Climate and rainfalls
·   Land use
·   Population
·   Livestock
·   Major economic activities
·   Public health
·   Sites of cultural and historic value
·   Surface and ground waters
·   Ecosystems and habitats
·   Protected natural areas
·   Local government set up
·   Other

Much of this information can be obtained from existing environmental reports, environmental
action plans, local development plans, statistical office, local governments. In some cases
additional studies may be required if important and feasible.

Project Components
This covers the basic design details, for example:
·   Type of road (bitumen, gravel, earth)
·   Length for improvements
·   Number and lengths for new construction, alignments
·   Number of bridges, drainage structures, underpasses, etc.

The types of activities, envisaged during the sub-project to be described under different phases:

Site preparation (mobilization)      eg. cleaning of vegetation for camps, realignments,


                                                101

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                                                                          Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                                                           deviations; excavation of quarries; access routes to quarries,
                                                                           deposits, asphalt plants, workshops, detour roads, etc.
Construction                                                               eg. earthworks, haulage, drilling, production of asphalt,
                                                                           crushing, etc.
Build facilities                                                           eg. labour camps, base camp, deposits, plants, workshops,
                                                                           machinery equipment, etc.
Operations                                                                 eg. occupational safety, location and number of labour
                                                                           camps, sources and supply of materials, etc.
Closure and restoring                                                      eg. rehabilitation of camp sites, wastes places, etc.

It is also important to prescribe in short any capacity buildings elements and trainings planned
under the sub-project.

Specific (technical, technological, location, time, season, etc.) alternatives should be defined
with short description.

Assessment of Environmental Impacts and Alternatives
Assessment of impacts are originated from the sub-projects (and alternatives) should be
conducted for socio-cultural, bio-physical, and human environments and should include both
negative and positive impacts. Impacts should be evaluated by type (long or short term;
local/specific or widespread; permanent or temporal; reversible or irreversible; seasonal or
perennial; cumulative or not; direct or indirect) and magnitude (significant, moderate, minor or
negligible). The results of assessment may be presented by the different formats as shown
below:

Environmental Classified impacts (negative/positive; type; magnitude)                                                                              Mitigation Comments
issues                                               during:
                                                     Mobilization        Construction                  Operation     Maintenance




                                          Environmental             Impacts                                       Mostly affected environment
          ta                                                       classified

  tcejor
        P   snoitnevretni sesahptnereffid   impacts
                                                                        by:
                                                                                                                                                 Bio-physical
                                            evitiso      evitage    epyT
                                                   P            N           edutinga    -oico  ci

                                                                                                                                                                    lio
                                                                                             S
                                                                                    M            monoce      na
                                                                                                               mu      tneib   ria
                                                                                                                 H          m       ecafru  reta                                    ytis
                                                                                                                                                w             reta     S   revidoi
                                                                                                                             A            S           wdnuor
                                                                                                                                                            G                     B




Specific (technical, technological, location, time, season, etc.) alternatives (eg. for labour
camps, detour roads, quarries, realignments, equipment) should be evaluated, compared and
recommendations for the most preferable options should be given.

Environmental Management Plan
The basic elements of an EMP are a Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Plan. When the mitigation
measures have been established, a Mitigation Plan must be drawn up indicating where each
measure is to be incorporated in the design, when it should be implemented, who will be
responsible for implementation, and where funds for mitigation may be sourced. The model for
summary table of Mitigation Plan is shown below:

                                                                                                       102

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project                                                                                                                                   Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




Sub-       Summary Description When and                                                                                                    Costs per                                                                        Responsibility                  Comments
project           of                          of                                      where                                                location                                                                                                         (e.g.
phase       potential                         mitigation                     mitigation Install Operate Supervise Operate Secondary
and          impacts                          measures                       measures                                                                                                                                                                       impacts)
activities                                                                   should be
                                                                              applied



Mitigation measures must be monitored to ensure that they are appropriated, functional and
successful. The Monitoring Plan should includes monitoring of mitigation measures efficiency by
means of its implementation (performance indicators) and environmental indicators (developed
during the baseline study), ensuring that the roads causes no adverse impacts to the natural
and social environments.

The model for summary table of Monitoring Plan is shown below:

Sub-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cost        Responsibility
project            ot                                                                                                                       -          ro                          rete
phase                si                                eb                     eb                                   ?tne            eb
and           tah      rete                      ereh                     wo                                                  neh                                              yh                 derotino
activities       W         marap ?derotino               ot                                                                                                                            marap
                                                     W
                                          m                si ?derotino     H   otti
                                                                                    si                                                                                                                                                             llatsni
                                           eb                          m               epyt/derotino  gnirotino                                                                  W                        m
                                                                                                               mfo     mpiuqe    W   otti
                                                                                                                                         si  derotino
                                                                                                                                                     m   ycneuqerf ?suounitnoc              eht            eb   ?)lanoitpo(   llatsni    etarepo                  etarepo
                                                                                                    m                                                                                          si            ot



Institutional arrangements and budget
The institutional responsibilities should be summarized, training and capacity building elements
should be prescribed with indicative cost for implementation.

Consultation
Public and stakeholders consultations should be conducted at least two times. First consultation
is required during scoping stage, when outline of the EIA report and major environmental
concerns, priorities, preliminary ideas for mitigations and monitoring should be discussed. The
second round should be implemented for presentation and discussion of draft EIA report and
EMP. Summary of consultations may be presented in the following format.

 Location         Objective                                  Invitees                                             Participants                                                                   Summary                                         Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                                                  conclusions and                                                  for action
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Comments



Conclusion and recommendations
A statement of the environmentally and social acceptability of the sub-project and the viability of
proposed alternatives should be prepared, including summary of mitigation measures proposed
and      other                  recommendations/conditions                                                                                 necessary                                                                       to        ensure               mitigation.




                                                                                                                             103

Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project      Sectoral Environmental Assessment:




                                          104

