Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/29/2007 
Report No.:  AC2715
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Moldova 
Project ID:  P100929 
Project Name:  Road Sector Program Support Project 
Task Team Leader:  Andreas Schliessler 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 5, 
2007 
Estimated Board Date: April 26, 2007 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Sector Investment 
and Maintenance Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (90%);Central government administration (10%) 
Theme:  Trade facilitation and market access (P);Infrastructure services for private sector 
development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
16.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
30.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
30.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The main objective of the project will be to protect a significant percentage of Moldova?s 
road network from further deterioration by carrying out physical works to reestablish 
adequate road conditions and thus recover the asset value of those roads. A second 
project objective will be to support the Government in implementing the institutional and 
sector reform measures which will be identified under the Transport Strategy, in 
particular to create an adequate institutional and financial framework for the sustainable 
development of road infrastructure and road transport.   
 
3. Project Description 
The total project cost is estimated to be in the order of US$48 million, of which 33% 
(US$16 million) would be provided through an IDA credit and 67% (US$32 million) as 
joint financing from EBRD and EIB.   The following project components have been 
identified:  
 
Component A:  Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of selected main roads (about 
US$44 million).  This component would include (i) execution of civil works mostly for 
Page  2
spot repairs, resurfacing and drainage repairs; (ii) preparation of technical design studies, 
economic feasibility studies, and social and environmental impacts studies; (iii) 
preparation of bidding documents for civil works; (iv) works supervision and technical 
audit; and (v) related institutional support such as technical assistance for procurement, 
equipment and other needed assistance to the State Road Administration (SRA).  This 
component will be implemented by the SRA, with oversight by the Ministry of Transport 
and Road Industry.  
 
Component B:   Support to the implementation of sector reform measures (about 
US$4.7 million).  Although the exact content of this component can only be defined after 
the conclusion of the Transport Sector Strategy (expected in March 2007), this 
component will most likely include (i) technical and legal support services, (ii) training 
and capacity building for the staff of the administration (ministries and State Road 
Administration), road transport operators, and road design and construction firms, (iii) 
improvement of the road maintenance management system, and (iv) specific support to 
help mobilizing EU funding for the transport sector.  This component will be 
implemented by the SRA with oversight by the Ministry of Transport and Road Industry.  
 
The physical works to be executed under the project will focus on those roads whose 
basic structure is still essentially intact, and which can be saved from heavy deterioration 
by spending a relatively small amount per km of road.  The type of works can be 
characterized as periodic maintenance and light rehabilitation; this includes full road 
resurfacing.  In some cases and for short sections, a climbing lane for slow vehicles may 
be added, but only if and where this is possible within the existing right-of-way. The 
project interventions will extend the useful lifespan of a significant portion of Moldova's 
road network by about 10 years. The project will thus constitute one of three sub-
programs of the Government's overall road infrastructure expenditures, the other two 
being (i) routine road maintenance, and (ii) reconstruction of badly deteriorated roads.  It 
was agreed that this project will not include major rehabilitation or reconstruction of 
roads which are already mostly destroyed, because this would lead to consuming most if 
not all of the project's financing on one or two road sections, while at the same time many 
additional roads would deteriorate.  
 
All road works will take place in the existing right-of-way of roads, which in Moldova 
reaches to about 12 meters left and right of the pavement edges.  The right-of-way of 
roads in Moldova has been well-protected from encroachment, and is not occupied (not 
even illegally) for any economic activity.  There will not be any land acquisition or 
resettlement, and a resettlement framework will not be needed for this project.  
 
The project will be executed over a four-year period (mid 2007 to mid 2011).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
All of the roads under consideration for the project will be identified and analyzed during 
the design stage. The locations of the project roads are in various parts of the country, and 
based on the Government's prioritized road investment program for 2007-2010. It is 
Page  3
proposed that only roads that have been paved and that sustain substantial traffic, and that 
have been consolidated from the point of view of the surrounding environment and 
demographics.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Arcadie Capcelea (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
As the project will consist of several relatively similar road improvement sub-projects 
that will be identified at a later stage of the project design, it was decided to apply a 
phased approach to the Environmental Assessment (EA). At the first stage it will be 
necessary to conduct a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA). The SEA will consist 
of: (i) conducting an analysis of institutional capacities and preparing general 
recommendations for improvements; (ii) preparing an environmental assessment and 
management framework (EAMF) that would establish the safeguard procedures for 
selected road subprojects as well as guidelines with details on potential environmental 
issues and on how to prepare Environment Management Plans (EMPs).  This would serve 
as a template to undertake appropriate environmental assessments of road subprojects 
once identified. At the second stage, the EA would include: (i) screening of proposed 
subprojects and identifying those that need a partial or full EIA study; (ii) carrying out 
specific environmental impact assessments for selected roads.  
 
The SEA shows no major project environmental impacts are expected. As most of the 
proposed roadwork will consist of the rehabilitation and maintenance of already existing 
road networks and there will be no new road construction and/or widening undertaken, 
most potential environmental impacts will be temporary, during the construction phase 
and will cause only minor and localized negative effects. Most of them will be limited 
mainly to the effects associated with rehabilitation works such as dust and noise control, 
use of bitumen, disposal of solid or hazardous waste, erosion control, and labor camp 
management. These impacts are common in road rehabilitation works and can be 
Page  4
mitigated with existing management techniques. After completion, the project will have 
positive indirect impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of 
accidents; reduced air pollution from more consistent travel speeds on rehabilitated road 
sections; cleaning up of solid waste from roadside drains; and reduced water pollution 
resulting from rehabilitated drainage systems. In order to minimize potential off-site 
impacts, the SEA proposes materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, etc.) be supplied only from 
sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals for environment and worker 
safety. Furthermore, any equipment used during construction should meet internationally 
recognized standards for environment and worker health and safety.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Given the nature of the interventions the project is expected to have only minor negative 
impacts on the environment, as it will focus on road maintenance and rehabilitation 
activities, with no resettlement or land acquisition activities involved. Thus no long term 
impacts are expected.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
No construction of new roads is proposed; hence the need to develop and evaluate 
alternatives is not required.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Borrower has prepared a SEA that consists of: (i) conducting an analysis of EA 
institutional capacities and preparing general recommendations for improving the EIA 
process in the road sector; and (ii) preparing an environmental assessment and 
management framework (EAMF) that will establish the safeguard procedures for selected 
road subprojects, as well as guidelines with the details on potential environmental issues.  
It will also establish procedures on how to prepare Environment Management Plans 
(EMPs) which would serve as a template to undertake appropriate environmental 
assessments of road subprojects once identified. The World Bank reviewed the SEA 
report with the Borrower during Appraisal and requested only some minor revisions and 
clarifications. The main SEA features are adequate as they cover all key aspects of 
environmental management of the road subprojects.  
 
Funds will be provided under the SRA for hiring of an environmental engineer that 
would be responsible for the SEA implementation and the implementation of EMPs for 
selected road sub projects.  He would also provide training on the environmental 
management aspects of the project to the MENR and MTRI and their rayon offices. 
During project implementation, provisions of the EMPs will be applied to all road 
rehabilitation activities. The SEA proposes that mitigation measures specified in the 
EMPs will be incorporated as requirements in each bidding document for works. The 
contracts will contain adequate provisions to ensure that the contractors undertake the 
measures specified in the EMPs that are prepared for selected road sub projects.   
 
Page  5
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The SEA was consulted on with all major stakeholders. The participants included 
representatives from national state institutions, environmental authorities, academia, 
private sector and NGOs. The stakeholders agreed with the main SEA approaches and 
recommendations and affirmed their commitment to support the project in its 
environmental objectives.  
 
During the SEA, study meetings were held with the representatives from the following 
stakeholders: MENR, State Ecological Inspectorate, MTRI; Ministry of Health; Ministry 
of Agriculture; Institute of Geography and Ecology, and from various environmental 
NGOs. A summary of the SEA was translated into Romanian and was widely distributed 
among all interested parties as well as posted on the web site of the MTRI. A complete 
SEA (in English and Romanian) will be kept at MTRI in Chisinau for review by 
interested parties.  
 
The SEA Summary was publicly disclosed in Moldova on January 26, 2007. The final 
version of the SEA will be disclosed in February 2007.  
 
The draft of the SEA was received by the WB on January 28, 2007.  The draft SEA was 
sent to the World Bank Infoshop on Januray 29, 2007.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/26/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
01/26/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/29/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Page  6
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andreas Schliessler 
01/28/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Arcadie Capcelea 
01/27/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
 
Comments:  Environmental Safeguards responsibility delegated to transport sector team (see 
minutes of ISDS review meeting. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Motoo Konishi 
01/29/2007 
Comments:  Cleared. 
