                            E1544
                               v2

THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA



STATE ROAD ADMINISTRATION



ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT
PROJECT




ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN

Balti ­ Sarateni Project


FINAL VERSION




January 2008

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AADT       Average Annual Daily Traffic
ADT        Average Daily Traffic
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EHS        Environmental, Health & Safety
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB        European Investment Bank
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
GoM        Government of Moldova
MENR       Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
MTRI       Ministry of Transport and Road Industry
OP/ BP/ GP Operational Policies, Bank Procedures and Good Practices
QA/QC      Quality Assurance/Quality control
RoM        Republic of Moldova
SEA        Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SEI        State Ecological Inspectorate
SRA        State Road Administration
TRL        Transport Research Laboratory
UK         United Kingdom
vpd        Vehicles per day
WB         World Bank

1. INTRODUCTION

1.1. General

The Government of Republic of Moldova has sought assistance from international donors
to improve key sections of its road network. The Republic of Moldova (Moldova) is a
small, landlocked country in Eastern Europe located to the east of Romania and to the
west of Ukraine, as shown on Figure 1.

Figure 1 ­ Location Map




Under an Agreement dated 11th June 2007 Roughton International of UK in association
with TRL of UK and Blizzard Design of Romania undertook to provide consultancy
services required for the first phase of the Road Sector Program Support Project with
services commencing on 27th June 2007. On behalf of the GoM, the project is
administered by the project office of the State Road Administration.

The project is intended to provide a holding action, which will prevent further
deterioration of two principal trunk road routes within Moldova:

 Chisinau ­ Orhei ­ Sarateni - Balti; and
 Chisinau - Hincesti.

Initially the project is to examine the feasibility of rehabilitating these routes and then is
to prepare final designs and documentation works to be carried out by tender.

Using finance from European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, European
Investment Bank and the World Bank this project aims to rehabilitate as much as possible
of three sections of the routes examined; (i) Balti ­ Sarateni (56 km) funded by WB; (ii)



                                                                                  Page 1 of 18

Chisinau ­ Orhei (approx 40 km) funded by EBRD; and, (iii) Chisinau ­ Hincesti (25
km.) funded by EIB.

Figure 2 ­ Project Roads




It is intended that the subsequent construction work will be arranged in three contracts
corresponding to the sections defined above, with each contract being funded by the
agency indicated above. The proposed construction work does not currently include the
section Orhei ­ Sarateni.




                                                                            Page 2 of 18

The preliminary phase of the project requires the Consultant to examine the feasibility of
about 225 km of roads (Balti ­ Sarateni, Orhei ­ Sarateni, Chisinau ­ Orhei and Chisinau
­ Hincesti).

The second phase of the project will comprise the final design for selected projects,
complete with tender documentation for the three proposed contracts. The final design
and contract definition will take into account the available funding and will tailor the
extent of the proposed contracts to suit.

1.2. The Project

The R14 road runs from Balti to Sarateni. The project road comprises the section of R14
from the municipal boundary of Balti to its junction with the M2 at Sarateni. The road
starts at Km 10.780 and ends at Km 66.668 at the junction with the Chisinau ­ Soroca
road (M2).

Traffic counts at the southern end of the R14 (Sarateni) and at the north end of the
Singerei Bypass (Km. 26.600) show AADT of 4768 on the Balti-Singerei section and
4073 on the Singerei-Sarateni section. Vehicle weighings carried out at Singerei
established average ESAs for commercial traffic, which were applied to the whole of
Balti-Sarateni. To the extent that there is a significant change in character of the traffic on
the Chisinau-Balti road it is considered to occur at Sarateni where the R14 ends and the
M2 from Chisinau branches to the east towards Soroca. Traffic characteristics on the R14
were therefore considered to be relatively uniform throughout the length.

Starting at the Balti Municipal boundary at Km 11 the road runs southeast to the M2
junction at Sarateni at Km 67. The road is of varying width and comprises an initial
section of 0.5 kilometres of 4 lane road, followed by 3.6 kilometres of 2 lane road, 11.73
kilometres of 4 lane, 16.27 kilometres of 2 lane. 1.4 kilometres of 3 lane, 5.1 kilometres
of 2 lane and a final 17.3 kilometre section of 3 lane carriageway. There are no sections
where the existing carriageway widths are considered inadequate or where additional
climbing lane provision might be required.

From Km 26.700 to Km 33.800 the road runs around the town of Singerei on the Singerei
bypass. There is a serious and long standing problem area on this bypass in the region Km
28-29 where the road is on embankment on sidelong ground and longterm sliding and
slumping has been in progress for many years; this process has affected the road surface
which is now seriously deformed despite various remedial works in the past. Although no
catastrophic failure is anticipated at present, the area represents a serious ongoing
maintenance problem with the possibility of a serious failure in the future. A lesser,
potential problem has been noted at Km 33.100 where slumping of the northern
embankment slope has occurred; so far this process has not affected the carriageway.

The project has now been expanded to include the design of remedial works at these
locations with the intention of providing a stable and reliable road structure for the
medium term. There is some doubt as to whether the Km 28-29 problems can ever be
wholly stabilized and it is possible that, ultimately, the road alignment will have to be
amended to avoid this area; however, such a solution should be well outside the
timeframe of this project.




                                                                                  Page 3 of 18

In view of these considerations this rehabilitation project, as currently planned, does not
require permanent works beyond the existing road formation, the works will include
resealing, overlaying with asphalt, road markings and signs, and rehabilitation of
shoulders. The terrain is relatively level and traffic figures at 4000 and 4700 AADT are
quite low; and this road does not require climbing or passing lanes for trucks.

In order to address the technical solutions proposed to mitigate the observed landslides
(km 28-29, km 33.100), temporary occupation of land might be required. The actual
finished works will not fall outside the SRA right of way and no more detail on possible
temporary requirements will be available until appointment of a contractor(s) and
agreement on his working schedules and planning. Any temporary occupation of small
land plots is addressed by the present document, in terms of mitigation (including
compensation and rehabilitation) and monitoring.

This project requires construction works such as:

 laying a foundation of gravel and crushed stone layers on top of which asphalt is laid
    using specialised equipment, on the reconstruction sections.

 asphalt laying using specialised pavement equipments.

 stabilising the areas where active land sliding was observed (km 28-29, km 33.100).

 placing warning traffic signs, marking the road centreline and the road sections where
    overtaking is forbidden with reflectorised paint or thermoplastic.

 cleaning and refurbishment of side drainage.

Environmental Assessment policy (WB OP/BP 4.01) is triggered due to the potential for
localized site-specific impacts from road rehabilitation and maintenance project. These
potential impacts are quite limited, for example dust and noise emissions, and some
increase in suspended solids in run-off water down gradient from the project areas during
the construction phase (since runoff controls may not be fully effective in all situations).
Short-term impact from noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion particularly during
execution of road works cannot be avoided. Noise emissions will increase significantly
due to movement and operation of construction machinery and vehicles.

No new roads segments will be financed and no permanent works will be carried out
beyond the existing right-of-way. Hence, no land acquisition is foreseen and the
involuntary resettlement safeguard will not be triggered. For the same reason the
activities supported by the project will not trigger the cultural heritage safeguard (though
provisions for "chance finds" are placed in construction contracts should unexpected
artifacts be encountered).

Long-term impacts may result from increased traffic and increased traffic speed. For
roads sector in some cases restored road infrastructure may result in increased rate of
certain categories of road accidents. Adopting proper design including adequate signs and
traffic calming measures will mitigate this. A traffic safety expert has reviewed the
existing road and his recommendations incorporated into the designs.




                                                                                 Page 4 of 18

1.3. Environmental setting. Points of interest/significance

No significant point of interest could be noted on biological and physical environment,
socio-economic environment and cultural/historic environment on the setting of the
mentioned project.

Several environmental issues of general concern have to be mentioned, as follows:

 The relief has an important influence on the microclimate, landscapes and soil
    conditions and to a great extent determines specific road safety measures, already
    incorporated in the analyzed project.

 Location of geologic deposits, available for local building materials (sand, clay,
    gravel) may influence selection of different sites temporarily required for the road
    rehabilitation; a decision in this sense should be produced by the Contractor.

 Most of the internal rivers are canalized, with regulating dams and flood protection
    dykes, built in cascade and regulated by weirs. Those reservoirs have been designed
    to trap sediments, provide water for irrigation, domestic and industrial needs, and
    support fishery. Local surface water resources (ponds, reservoirs, small rivers) are
    strongly affected by soil erosion, contaminated runoff from the earth surface, waste
    water discharges and unauthorized waste disposals/ dumps.

 The floodplains of several small rivers might be exposed to flooding, due to climate
    and landscapes characteristics, poor technical status of weirs and inadequate dam
    safety management, as several cases of severe floods on small rivers have been
    reported over the last decade.

 Apart from the project roads being located in the vicinity of one such retention
    structures, as well as crossing the surface water network in several places, no sensitive
    surface water related issue, as well as no critical contamination of waters and
    sediments was reported along the analyzed routes.

 Shallow groundwater is a major source of drinking water for rural population: about
    50% of the country population relies on simple shallow dug wells. The shallow
    groundwater is highly vulnerable to anthropogenic impacts and sources of water
    contamination are mainly linked with rural areas. While no baseline assessment was
    carried out, the existing information determines us to consider that the range of
    natural and man-induced present contaminants includes nitrates and microbiological
    indices.

 The good condition of the soil is crucial for agriculture and is a basis for development
    of a productive export-oriented agriculture and food-processing industry. No critical
    soil contamination areas and deep erosion by ravines has to be noted in the
    implementation area of the project.

 Due to the slope landscapes, clay soil profile and groundwater level, landslides are
    quite a common feature of Moldova's nature. Landslides most commonly occur
    during the winter and spring months due to increased precipitation rates, snow melt
    and soil saturation. The landslides observed in the road rehabilitation area need to be
    treated and considered with due respect paid to groundwater drainage



                                                                                 Page 5 of 18

 No critically polluted areas are noted along the analyzed road. Average annual
 concentrations exceeding the national standards (maximum allowable concentrations)
 are reported for: particulates and formaldehyde (in Balti).

 This project is proposing normal rehabilitation/maintenance works to be carried out
 within the existing right of way, without permanent land expropriation and/or building
 any new bridges. The proposed works do not pose a significant risk to the
 neighbouring environment and no significant impact on flora and fauna is expected to
 occur, as all existing migration patterns would be maintained.

 No areas of protective interest were reported along the analyzed road sections.
 Awareness signaling along the roads is to be proposed as mitigation for any natural
 heritage site located near to the route, as requested by various stakeholders.

 No significant loss of trees would occur as only a limited number of trees might be cut
 in order to construct the mitigation measures designed for land-slide areas. Re-
 vegetation is proposed, as part of the mitigation plan.

 There will be no impact on existing agricultural land or other productive land, or
 housing or other structures (including kiosks and small commercial enterprises).

 The project will avoid the permanent taking of land or affecting structures during the
 works. The road is already wide enough to accommodate three lanes and future
 predicted traffic volumes.

 Temporary occupation of land might be required in order to address the technical
 solutions proposed to mitigate the observed landslides (km 28-29, km 33.100), as well
 as for borrow pits and waste (soil) disposal areas (for slides), and contractor's
 working areas. No more detail possible until appointment of a contractor(s).

 Therefore there is no requirement for preparation of a resettlement framework for the
 project or preparation of resettlement plans for this contract.

 While no cultural heritage site is reported along the route, special mitigation is
 proposed in cases where any artifacts are encountered during project implementation.
 Awareness signaling along the roads is proposed as mitigation for any cultural
 heritage, tourist (including craftsmen traditional areas) and landscape sites of interest,
 located near the route, as requested by various stakeholders.

 Proper road signaling and traffic safety measures should be considered along the route
 as the present vertical and horizontal signaling status is considered poor. Special
 attention should be paid to speed limitation areas, to road curvature signaling, to
 pedestrian crossings and to the village name posts which actually constitute speed
 limit areas.

 Usage of road surroundings areas for cattle grazing was observed to be a common
 practice. In some circumstances specific warning signs should be provided to draw
 attention to the dangers posed by this practice.




                                                                              Page 6 of 18

2. MITIGATION PLAN
The mitigation plan consists mainly of good management and construction practices that have to be monitored by all relevant stakeholders, as presented
in the following table. It should be noted that the World Bang EHS General Guidelines already enforces most of those measures, as it does the local
legislation (the stringer between them will imposed by the EMP and works contract). All remaining measures are part of the proposed construction works.
      Phase*                                                                           Supervision                        Performance      Commence            Cost        Institutional Responsibility
                    Issue/Impact                 Mitigation measure                                     Location
 P    C    O   SD                                                                      requirement                          indicator       moment      Install   Operate       Install          Operate
                                                                                       Physical and human Environment
                                                                                                                       Visual/ Construction                               Designer/ Contractor/
                                 Re-vegetation of embankments                                        Earthworks areas
                                                                                         Monitor                             Works            Works      work                  Engineer
                        Soil                                                                                                                                       N/A                             N/A
                                                                                      implementation   Temporary        Visual/ Remedial   completion    specs
                                 Prevent soil compaction                                                                                                                  Contractor/ Engineer
                                                                                                      occupied areas         Works

                       Water     Scheduling construction activities near waterways                                                            Works
                                                                                                     Construction sites      Visual/
                     resources   for seasonably dry periods, wherever possible           Monitor                                             forecast    work
                                                                                                       located near       Construction                             N/A    Contractor/ Engineer     N/A
                     and water
                                 Waste oils and other liquids must be disposed off    implementation                                                     specs
                                                                                                        waterways            Works
                       quality                                                                                                              Permanent
                                 in a proper manner
                                 Traffic speed should be reduced (in the villages)                   Construction sites
                                 and regular application of water on unpaved roads                     located near
                                 may be required to prevent high dust emission           Monitor         villages      Visual/ Construction              work
                     Air quality                                                                                                            Permanent              N/A    Contractor/ Engineer     N/A
                                 All trucks carrying fine material should be covered implementation                          Works                       specs
                                 Construction machinery must be well maintained                      Construction road
                                 to minimize emissions
                                 Activities producing excessive noise levels
                                                                                                       Asphalt and
                                 (asphalt and concrete plants, borrow pits and
                                                                                                      concrete plants,
                                 dump sites, site management) should be normally
                                                                                                      borrow pits and                                                     Contractor/ Engineer
                                 restricted to the day time and equipment normally
                                                                                                      dump sites, site
                                 producing high levels should be suppressed
                     Nuisance                                                            Monitor       management      Visual/ Construction              work
                                 working during night                                                                                       Permanent              N/A                             N/A
                       noise                                                          implementation                         Works                       specs
                                 Protection the critical surrounding areas
                                 (kindergardens, schools, hospitals) with temporary                  Construction road                                                    Contractor/ Engineer
                                 noise barriers
                                 Creation of green screens with shrubs and bushes                   High embankment                                                       Designer/ Contractor/
                                 on embankments >3m height                                                areas                                                                Engineer
                                 Consultations with local officials before locating
                                                                                                                       All legally required
                                 and building the camps, including discussions on                                                          Before/during
                                                                                                                           permits and
                                 appropriate sites, resources, dispute resolution                                                          construction
                                                                                                         All areas     agreements are valid                               Contractor/ Engineer
                                 procedures and rights and responsibilities of                                                                works
                                                                                                        temporary         and in place
                                 various parties
                                                                                                     occupied during
                                 Restore vegetation immediately after end of works
                                                                                                       construction
                    Construction Assess vector ecology in work areas and avoid           Monitor                        Visual/Remedial       Works      work
                                                                                                                                                                   N/A                             N/A
                        site     creation of undesirable habitats (e.g. stagnant      implementation                         Works         completion    specs
                                 water)
                                 Proper storage of the hazardous materials by the                                                                                         Designer/ Contractor/
                                 construction camps and during their use in                                                                Before/during                       Engineer
                                                                                                     All construction        Visual.
                                 construction (vehicles, asphalt plants etc.). Install                                                     construction
                                                                                                          areas         No of fines paid
                                 and operate proper disposal system as not to harm                                                            works
                                 environment.


                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 7 of 18

        Phase*                                                                               Supervision                      Performance       Commence            Cost        Institutional Responsibility
                         Issue/Impact                  Mitigation measure                                     Location
P       C     O    SD                                                                        requirement                        indicator        moment      Install   Operate       Install          Operate
                                                                                                                           All legally required
                                        Maximum care should be taken in selection of
                                                                                                                               permits and
                                        access routes to all areas temporary occupied                                                           Before/during                  Contractor/ Engineer
                                                                                                              All areas    agreements are valid
                                        during construction                                                                                     construction
                                                                                                              temporary        and in place
                                                                                                                                                   works
                                                                                                           occupied during       Visual.                                       Designer/ Contractor/
                             Natural    Minimize destruction of trees and vegetation           Monitor                                                        work
                                                                                                            construction     Permits in place                           N/A         Engineer            N/A
                           vegetation                                                       implementation                                                    specs
                                        Restore vegetation immediately after the end of                                      Visual/Remedial       Works
                                        works                                                                                    Works          completion
                                                                                                                                                Before/during                  Contractor/ Engineer
                                        Forbid project staff to fish, hunt, kill, injure or                All construction      Visual;
                                                                                                                                                construction
                                        poach fauna                                                             areas       No. of complaints
                                                                                                                                                   works
                                                                                                                               Permits and
                                        Pit or quarry location and access arrangements                                     agreements are valid
                                                                                                                               and in place
                                                                                                              All areas
                          Borrow pits,                                                                                        Working plan      Before/during
                                        A working plan giving an outline of the direction,     Monitor        temporary                                       work
                          quarries and                                                                                     approved by Owner's construction             N/A    Contractor/ Engineer     N/A
                                        phasing and depth of working                        implementation occupied during                                    specs
                         waste dumps                                                                                            Engineer           works
                                                                                                            construction
                                        A restoration plan giving details of final grading,                                  Restoration plan
                                        drainage and sediment control, re-soiling and re-                                  approved by Owner's
                                        vegetation measures                                                                     Engineer
                                                                                               Socio-economic Environment
Social structure and cultural values
                             Social
                                                                                               Monitor           All
                         disturbance by Respect local regulations for construction of plants                               Permits are valid andBefore/during work             Designer/Contractor/
                                                                                            observation of  construction                        construction            N/A                             N/A
                         construction and camps                                                                                  in place                     specs                 Engineer
                                                                                                rules           areas                              works
                             camps
                          Impacts on                                                           Monitor         All new                          Before/during
                                        Specify rules and means regarding preservation                                      Training on legal                 work             Designer/Contractor/
                             cultural                                                       observation of  construction                        construction            N/A                             N/A
                                        and recovery of cultural remains                                                      requirements                    specs                 Engineer
                         heritage sites                                                         rules           areas                              works
Property values
                                        Oblige contractor not to interfere unnecessarily or    Monitor
                                                                                                                                 Visual;
                                        improperly with access to, use and occupation of observation of
                                                                                                                            No. of complaints
                                        properties                                              rules         All areas
                                                                                                              temporary                         Before/during
                           Temporary    Oblige contractor to select, arrange for, and if                                    No. of complaints;                work             Designer/Contractor/
                                                                                                              occupied                          construction            N/A                             N/A
                          loss of land necessary pay for storage sites and/or other                                         Legal contracts in                specs                 Engineer
                                                                                               Monitor          during                             works
                                        temporary uses                                                                            place
                                                                                            implementation  construction
                                        Oblige contractor to clean up and restore areas
                                                                                                                            No. of complaints
                                        used




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 8 of 18

      Phase*                                                                    Supervision                    Performance       Commence            Cost        Institutional Responsibility
                 Issue/Impact                 Mitigation measure                                Location
P     C    O SD                                                                 requirement                      indicator        moment      Install   Operate       Install          Operate
Road safety
                                                                                                            Safety measures part Before/during
                              Determine safety measures for construction sites                                                                                  Designer/Contractor/
                                                                                                                of contract      construction
                              through contract obligations                                                                                                           Engineer
                                                                                                                obligations         works
                                                                                                                  Visual;
                 Accidents    Post traffic signs and warning in advance
                                                                                                             No of complaints
                 during road
                              Inform adjacent population in advance about                                         Visual;
                 construction
                              scheduling of planned works                                                    No of complaints
                 period due to                                                    Monitor
                 construction                                                  implementation      All            Visual;
                              Speed limits on construction traffic                                                                             work
                 traffic and                                                                   construction   No of accidents                            N/A                             N/A
                                                                                                                                    During     specs
                 machinery    Fencing of quarries and borrow pits                                areas             Visual        construction                   Contractor/ Engineer
                 and due to
                                                                                                                                    works
                 interferencesExclusion of the public where heavy machinery is                                    Visual;

                 with local   working                                                                         No of incidents

                 roads                                                                                            Visual;
                              Appropriate EHS training for workers
                                                                                                               No of trainees
                                                                                  Monitor
                                                                                                                  Visual;
                              Regulation of storage and construction activities observation of
                                                                                                              No of incidents
                                                                                    rules
* P ­ Planning/Project Preparation; C ­ Construction; O ­ Operation; SD ­ Site Decommissioning




                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 9 of 18

3. MONITORING PLAN
During construction phase, as well as during decommissioning of each site occupied by Contractor, if the case, monitoring of the following
environmental indicators is recommended to be completed by an independent company that will contracted by the Contractor.
                                                                                                        Cost (if significant)              Responsibility
   Phase     What?                  Where?                  How?                      When?           Install        Operate        Install            Operate
  Baseline                                                                           Not required
Construction        Air              Most           NOx, CO, SO2, VOC,
                                    affected                 PM10
                                   residential
                                     areas
                   Water             Most        pH, solid suspensions, Ca2+,
                                   vulnerable            Mg2+, SO4   2+

                                    areas to
                                   pollutant
                                    releases
                    Soil             Most        Total hydrocarbons from oil Quarterly, by a
                                                                                                       Not              1000          Not
                                   vulnerable              products                 specialised                                                       Contractor
                                                                                                     applicable    USD/quarter    applicable
                                    areas to                                         company
                                      fuel
                                   discharges
                   Noise             Most            Noise levels ­ dB(A)
                                    affected
                                   residential
                                     areas
                Vegetation           Most               Dust deposition
                                    affected
                                     areas
 Operation         Noise          Residential        Noise levels ­ dB(A)            Periodic,         SRA              SRA           SRA                SRA
                                     areas                                         together with
                                                                                   traffic census
Decommission Not required for the road rehabilitation project, but for all temporary occupied sites. The same monitoring company will perform it, by taking into
             account all agreements and permits issued for the usage of each site occupied by Contractor, if the case.




                                                                                                                                                        Page 10 of 18

4. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

4.1. Equipment Purchases

Not directly applicable. In order to monitor the quality of the environmental factors and
activity, the Contractor should contract a specialised company to monitor environment-
related activities. That company's contract may need to include purchase of equipment.

4.2. Training/Study Tours

Not directly applicable. In order to assess training needs the SRA might contract a
specialised company to evaluate requirements. The same company may subsequently be
used to organise the relevant training.

4.3. Consultant Services

In order to monitor compliance with the terms of the contracts, the quality of the
environmental factors and the acceptability of the work methods, it is considered
necessary that the Contractor contract a specialised company, to monitor all environment-
related activities on a quarterly basis, during the whole construction period, as well as
during decommissioning of each site occupied by Contractors.

4.3.1 Scope

The environmental effects in the project area can be generated by traffic, construction
equipment, site management, asphalt and concrete plants, temporary storage of
construction materials and of fuel, borrow pits and waste dump areas, temporary
occupation of agricultural land for works.

Monitoring is carried out to assess any disturbance or degradation to the environment and
to protect both State Road Administration and the affected parties from false allegations
of environmental damage.


4.3.2 Methodology

It is considered that the monitoring campaigns can be performed quarterly, based on a
predefined scheme. This approach will reveal the maximum values and the exceptions, as
the results will be presented as diagrams compared with the background and limit values.

This methodology will clearly show the lacks and mistakes in the site management or in
the equipment maintenance. The reports will also show the need for corrective actions,
such as mandatory actions enforced by Moldavian environmental legislation, by World
Bank EHS Guidelines and/or any mitigation measures imposed by agreements and
permits in place, issued by relevant stakeholders.

For reducing the costs and necessary time for study elaboration, the following approach is
proposed:

 Establishing of the most affected residential areas by the working sites, regarding the
   air and noise pollution




                                                                             Page 11 of 18

 Establishing the most vulnerable areas regarding the soil pollution with oil products,
  such as heavy oil or diesel fuel, and VOC released in the atmosphere:

     Fuel tanks for heavy oil or diesel fuel;

     Ramp for charging or discharging of oil products

 Establishing on each quarter the relevant pollutants released in the activity:

     NOx, CO, SO2, PM10, volatile organic compounds (VOC) (as air pollutants);

     Total hydrocarbons from oil products (as soil contaminants) if necessary

     pH, solid suspensions, Ca2+, Mg2+, SO4 (as surface water pollutants).
                                               2+


 Establishing the Moldovan regulations (presented in Annex A) and the World Bank
  EHS general guidelines that impose limit values for the mentioned pollutants, in
  ambient air, water, residential areas and soil;

 Measurements of air pollutants concentrations, noise levels, soil and surface water
  contaminations in the vicinity of the working sites;

 Comparison of the measurements results for the specified pollutants with the regulated
  limits such as:

     Limit values

     Alert thresholds for sensible utilities (residential areas or agriculture areas)

     Intervention thresholds for sensible utilities (residential areas or agriculture areas).

 Proposal of corrective actions in order to mitigate the environmental issues identified
  on the working sites.

 Issuing a hard copy report.

4.3.3 Reporting

A monitoring report should be produced on a quarterly basis. The proposed structure is:
 General data

 Methodology
      - Investigations over environmental media (noise, air, soil, water, vegetation)
      - Assessment criteria

 Results of the site investigation.

 Management of construction materials, of deleterious substances and of waste

 Conclusions and recommendations
      - Corrective actions required to mitigate the environmental issues

4.4. Special Studies

Not applicable. There is no need for special studies.




                                                                                Page 12 of 18

5. SCHEDULE

Project Implementation Plan from SRA suggests contract signature around April/May
2008. Duration 24 months. No more detail will be available until appointment of a
contractor(s) and agreement on his working schedules and planning.




                                                                     Page 13 of 18

6. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

Adherence of construction workers to environmental requirements is a major aspect of
environmental protection in road projects. This adherence is best achieved through
training and contract stipulations, as outlined in tender documents. Monitoring and
enforcement of the requirements are necessary aspects of the process.

Contractor will be requested to present a Quality Management System, and appoint a
QA/QC Director and an Environmental, Health & Safety Officer, both with relevant
training and experience in the field. Contractor shall provide to all employees general
environmental awareness training, as part of their standard environmental, health &
safety training.

In line internal communication should include reporting of any incident to the
Environmental, Health & Safety Officer, QA/QC Director and Site Manager. The
Owner's Engineer would be presented with a written report on any incident. SRA
Environmental Coordinator and other relevant authorities shall be informed, if the case.

A monitoring report should be presented on a quarterly basis to the Owner's Engineer
that would hand-over a copy of this report to the SRA Environmental Coordinator, in
order to have an independent perspective on the environmental performance of the
Contractor. Corrective Action Request or Non-Conformity Report might be issued and
Competent Environmental Protection Authorities informed, if the case.

Any problem requiring immediate attention should be noted by monitors and brought
IMMEDIATELY to the attention of the Owner's Engineer who is responsible for
ensuring that the Contractor complies with the contract.




                                                                          Page 14 of 18

7. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOS AND PROJECT-
AFFECTED GROUPS



This EMP was prepared in conformity with national and WB requirements.
Both English and Romanian versions were checked and published on SRA webpage
www.asd.md, were delivered to more than 300 NGOs and individuals by Regional
Environmental Center mailing list and posted on http://www.rec.md; Environmental
news portal www.greenmedia.md (http://ro.greenmedia.md/842-842.html), link with
EMP at http://www.salvaeco.org/ . We waited for comments and suggestions on EMP
during public disclosure process till the end of February 2008.
The comments and suggestions were from the leader of Ecological Movement of
Moldova, Chisinau Branch, Mr. V. Garaba. Below are the key remarks with replies:



Comment 1: It is not clear what will be the proportion of the reclamation of trees and
bushes along the road reconstruction areas. Also, it is not known the type of the trees
that will be necessary to replace the removed forested vegetation. I think it will be
necessary for each project to conduct a preliminary estimation of the volume and the
cost of works with identification of the nurseries from which the seedling material will
be purchased.

A ­ During project activities will not be affected any state protected zones. It is not
anticipated any deforestations of forested vegetation. The land on which the project will
be implemented is the property of State. The removal of trees and bushes (small
number) might occur in some isolated cases, along the road protection areas, on which
the consolidation works of the landslides which are presented on the cross-sections of
the management plans will be executed. Removal of trees will be coordinated with
ecological services. After the construction is finished the vegetation cover will be
restored. This will be the duty of the construction company and we don't know from
which nursery they will purchase the seedling material, probably they will announce a
tender for that.



Comment 2: Since during reconstruction of the roads the transport access will be
limited, will be there any detour roads? Will be good to know what will be the quality of
these new roads (country road, what type of pavement will be, etc)? It is necessary also
to calculate how much will increase the length of the road, how much fuel will be
additionally used, what will be the volume of emission in the atmosphere, what is the
modality to recover the environmental damage and people involved in traffic.

A ­ It is not expected to close any portions of the road totally; the traffic will be
oriented on single lane. The project is evaluated as category C, with non-significant
impacts and doesn't require a full Environmental Impact Assessment. Therefore your
suggestions/comments may be in the case when the traffic is closed and it is necessary
to establish a long detour, which is not expected in these sub-projects. An
Environmental Impact Assessment is demanded by a competitive authority (in this case




                                                                           Page 15 of 18

the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources). The Ministry, by taking into
consideration the environmental documentation submitted for analysis and during
management plan discussions, considered that it is not necessary to conduct an EIA
study. With the official letter from the State Ecological Inspectorate (nr.1500 on
22.10.2007) it was mentioned that for such sub-projects it is necessary to elaborate only
an Environmental Management Plan and not a complete/full Environmental Impact
Assessment study.



Comment 3: I think it is necessary to organize public meetings with interested person
to discuss the environmental plans. Before discussions it is necessary to have an
independent environmental impact assessment study with impertinent analysis of
environmental protection measures proposed by road authorities. I don't think that
collection of suggestions and comments in digital format is sufficient to take correct
conclusions/decisions regarding the impact assessment of the project activities.

A- Taking into consideration the minor impact during proposed activities, the present
discussion form was agreed inclusively with the financing bank. Because of only a few
comments, proposals and objections on EMP we consider that it is unnecessary to have
public meetings on EMP discussions. If you consider that it is insufficient to present
suggestions in digital format, please send your comments in written format to ASD. We
assure you that your comments will be treated with full consideration regardless the
format you have decided to send.

Also we would like to inform you that in the framework of the project there were
elaborated Sectoral Environmental Assessments by independent experts. The SEAs
contain the requirements for implementation of sub-project activities by SRA and
construction companies. SEA is one of the most important documents guiding all
environmental activities during project implementation. SRA and the State Ecological
Inspectorate will monitor/supervise the implementation of the project.




                                                                            Page 16 of 18

ANNEX A ­ LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ROAD SECTOR

RoM environmental and road sector policy and regulatory frameworks were analyzed in
the SEA in terms of (i) legislation and (ii) specific by-law regulations (standards,
requirements, rules). While compiling the following list, emphasis was placed on
relevant EIA requirements and procedures - valid at the time present document was
drafted, however, several other primary and secondary regulations might pose interest in
terms of environmental legislation and performance - during execution. The list
therefore is not meant to be relied on entirely, and for a correct and complete
understanding of the whole legal framework, it might be necessary for the Contractor to
hire an Environmental, Health & Safety Officer with good knowledge of the Moldavian
code of law.

1. Basic legislation (Laws)

 Law on Environmental Protection, 1993, amended in 1997

 Water Code, 1993, revised and amended in 2003

 Land Code, 1991 revised in 1993, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000

 Forest Code, 1996

 Law on Air Protection, 1997

 The Law on Regime of Harmful Products and Substances, 1997, amended in 2002

 Law on Wastes of Production and Consumption, 1997

 Law on State Land-Tenure Regulations, State Land Survey and Land Monitoring,
    1992

 Law on the Payment for Pollution of the Environment, 1998.

 Law on Sanitary-Epidemiological Protection of the Population, 1993, amended in
    1996, 2004.

 Law on Permitting of Certain Kinds of Activities, 2001

 Regulation on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision Making and
    Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, 2000.

 Law on Quality in Construction, 1996.

 Law on Roads, 1995

 Law on Transport, 1997

 Motor Transport Code, 1998

2. Government Decision, Instructions, Standards

 Government Decision on Approval and Introducing of the State Sanitary-
    Epidemiological Rules and Standards for enterprises producing asphalt-concrete
    mixtures, 2006.




                                                                          Page 17 of 18

 Government Decision on increasing of exploitation safety of buildings and
 constructions, installations and pipe-lines which are sources of a heightened risk,
 1996.

 Government Decision on verifying of projects and executing of construction works,
 technical expertise of projects and constructions, 1996..

 Government Decision on state sanitary-epidemiological supervision in the Republic
 of Moldova, 1995

 Sanitary Rules on atmospheric air pollution prevention in localities, 1998.

 State Standard GOST 17.2.3.01-86. Nature protection. Atmosphere. Air quality
 control regulations for settlements.

 Temporal Construction Norms 9-79. Guide for environment and land tenure
 protection measures for reconstruction of motor roads in Moldova, 1979.

 Construction Rules D.02.01-96. Road and bridges: Requirements for environmental
 protection during design, construction, rehabilitation, repair and maintenance of
 roads and bridges, 1996.

 Temporary Construction Norms 18-74. Instructions on architectural and landscape
 design of roads, 1975.

 Construction Norms and Rules 2.05.02-85. Motor roads.

 Construction Norms and Rules 3.06.03-85. Motor roads.




                                                                          Page 18 of 18

