Report No. 484a-SU
Appraisal of a                                                                    FILE COPY
Second Education Project
in the Democratic Republic of the Sudan
March 26, 1975
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUtIVAIETS
US$l          =          LSd 0.398
LSd 1-                   US$2.51
MEASUllRES
1 Meter                 =         3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)               10.76 Square Feet
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FISCAL YAR
July 1 to June 30



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .                                   - iii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS.                      2
Socio-economic Background.                                  2
Development Potential.                                      3
Employment in the Modern Sector.                            3
Human Resources and Rural Development.                      4
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ................          5
Evaluation of the Sector.                                   5
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans.                      6
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                  7
Objectives ..........                                       7
Project Items.                                              8
Integrated Rural Education Centers.                         8
Junior Secondary Schools.                                   9
The Bahkt-er-Ruda Teacher Training Institute               10
Wau Vocational Training Center .10
Technical Assistance .10
V.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT .11
Cost of the Project .11
Financial Plan .13
Project Implementation .14
Procurement .15
Disbursement .16
This report is based on the findings of a Mission to Sudan in November 1973,
composed of Messrs. S.R. Santos, R. Cambridge, G. Schaffer of the Bank and
K. Taylor (Consultant, Unesco). The project was further reviewed in Sudan by
Messrs. J. L. Scearce and Santos in March and in November 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................     17
Benefits    ..................... ....................  17
Risks Involved in the Project ............... ..       18
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... .......      18
APPENDIX
The Education and Training Sector
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Post Secondary Institutions, 1973
3.  Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teacher Requirements
4.  Expenditure on Mducation, 1966-1973
5.  Past and Projected Expenditures on Education and Training
6.  Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
7.  Summary of Project Cost
8.  Implementation Schedule
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.  Enrollment Pyramid - 1973                         World Bank 8120
2.  Structure of Education - t973                     World Bank 8121
3.  Administrative Structure                          World Bank 8818
4.  System of Financing Education                     World Bank 8516
MAP



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
BASIC DATA (Est.)
1973
General
Area                                   967,500 sq. miles
Population                             16.50 million
Education
Enrollment in primary schools
(grades 1 - 6)                     1,081,992
As percentage of 7-12 age group        38%
Enrollment in junior secondary
schools (grades 7-9)                 135,387
As percentage of 13-15 age group       11%
Enrollment in upper secondary
schools (grades 10-12)                55,925
As percentage of 16-18 age group       5%
Enrollment in post secondary
institutions                          15,982
Total public expenditure on
Education                          LSd. 33.73 million
As percentage of GDP                   4.5%
As percentage of total govern-
ment expenditure                   13.2%






GLOSSARY
IREC           Integrated Rural Education Center
BRTTI          Bahkt-er-Ruda Teacher Training Institute
CDC            Curriculum Development Center
WVTC           Wau Vocational Training Center
MCPW           Ministry of Construction and Public Works
FRG            Federal Republic of Germany
Intermediate Teacher Training:       Pre-service training course for
Lower Secondary School teachers
Higher Teacher Training:             Pre-service training course for
Upper Secondary School teachers






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan for which IDA assistance of US$10 million is proposed.
A first education project (Credit 122-SU, signed in 1968) is helping in the
expansion and improvement of agricultural, secondary and teacher education.
ii.       Due to prolonged political difficulties, the education sector
suffered serious setbacks during 1956-72, particularly in the Southern
Region. Planning for educational development was minimal during this period
but the Government is preparing to conduct a thorough re-examination of the
system and reassessment of educational policies, strategies and plans. How-
ever, as an interim measure, certain obvious and critical requirements need
immediate attention. These include: the expansion of learning opportunities
for out-of-school youths and adults to enable them to participate more active-
ly in rural development; the establishment of additional schools, particu-
larly in provinces where most schools were destroyed or damaged during the
political disturbances; and qualitative improvements in basic education and
teacher training.
iii.      The proposed project would help to meet these interim requirements
by (a) providing services and training facilities for out-of-school youths
and adults, (b) expanding and upgrading primary and junior secondary educa-
tion, (c) strengthening teacher education and curriculum development, and
(d) assisting in a comprehensive educational sector review. Specifically,
the proposed project would consist of:
(a)  construction, extensions of buildings and equipment for:
(i) forty new Integrated Rural Education Centers;
three new Junior Secondary Schools; (iii) one Primary
Teacher Training Institute; and (iv) one Vocational Training
Center.
(b)  Specialist services and fellowships to assist:  (i) improve-
ments in teacher education, curriculum development and farmers
cooperatives; (ii) an education sector review, and (iii) project
implementation.
The project institutions would have a total of 13,600 student places, of
which 12,960 would be new.
iv.       The Integrated Rural Education Centers would each accommodate 300
students and, apart from serving as regular primary schools,would act as
focal points for village community life and development; they would have



- li -
appropriate facilities such as health centers and stores for the supply of
improved seeds, and permit the regular organization of courses for youths
and adults in agriculture and cooperatives, domestic science, village crafts
and health care. The construction of 30 IRECs (Type B) would be partly by
self-help consisting of unskilled labor contributed by villagers. Ten
IRECs (Type A) would be constructed by using normal contract award procedures.
v.        The three new junior secondary schools (grades 7-9 for a total
enrollment of 600 students) would be located in areas of the Southern Region
where no such schools exist. They would enable a proportion of local primary
school leavers to have the opportunity to pursue junior secondary education
and thus meet the enrollment requirements of upper secondary level institu-
tions (grades 10-13) and subsequently university entrance.
vi.       The expansion (from 480 to 640 places) of a Primary Teacher Train-
ing Institute (Bakht-er-Ruda Teacher Training Institute) would include the
establishment of a Curriculum Development Center where curricula appropriate
for rural training would be developed. The Institute would especially promote
innovative methods of pre-service and in-service training of teachers for
rural education and Integrated Rural Education Center primary schools, and
also develop prototypes of teaching materials for primary and secondary
teachers.
vii.      The expansion (from 160 to 360 places) and equipping of the Wau
Vocational Training Center in the Southern Region would increase the number
of trade courses offered and raise the quality of instruction to provide the
essential skilled manpower to carry out the extensive reconstruction program
of the Region. The Federal Republic of Germany is assisting in the Center's
development by providing equipment and technical assistance for its instal-
lation and instruction in its use.
viii.     The specialist services and fellowships for teacher education,
curriculum development, rural education and farmer cooperatives would assist
in (a) reorientation of the basic education curricula and teacher training
to accord with socio-economic and cultural conditions in the country; (b)
development of teaching aids and materials for technical secondary education;
(c) training of agricultural technicians and farmers in agricultural coopera-
tives; and (d) follow up, supervision and evaluation of the instructional
program of the Integrated Rural Education Centers.
ix.       The specialist services for the nationwide education sector review
would provide guidance and advice to the Government in planning and executing
the review and in the formulatifn of educational policies, strategies and
plans.
x.        The ten man-years of specialist services for project implementa-
tion would comprise a quantity surveyor, a procurement officer, an archi-
tect, a structural engineer and a mechanical engineer. They would reinforce
both the Project Unit, now implementing the first project, and the Ministry
of Construction and Public Works who would work in close cooperation with
the Project Unit in implementing the proposed project.



- iii -
xi.       Local staff of the Project Unit, all on a full-time basis, would
include a project director, an assistant project director and an accountant.
The procurement officer, provided under technical assistance, would be
attached to the Project Unit and the quantity surveyor, also provided under
technical assistance, would divide his time between the Project Unit and the
Ministry of Construction and Public Works. Because of the large amount of
construction to be executed in Southern Sudan, a second assistant project
director would be located at Juba where a sub-Project Unit would be establish-
ed. Provision would also be made for the employment of consultants, as
necessary, to relieve peak work-loads on the Ministry of Construction and
Public Works.
xii.      Contracts for civil works, furniture, instructional equipment,
vehicles and imported construction materials would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines on Procurement. Local construction materials and transportation ser-
vices would be procured by competitive bidding, advertised locally. Construc-
tion of about 30 IRECs would be by departmental forces (force account).
Review of tender evaluation documents by the Association would be required
for civil works contracts above US$250,000 and would not be required for
equipment, construction materials local transportation service and furniture
contracts less than US$50,000 up to a total of US$1,000,000. Contracts for
the procurement of equipment, books and furniture costing less than US$20,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in
accordance with contracting procedures acceptable to the Association, provid-
ed, however, that the aggregate cost does not exceed US$100,000. Domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing
rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the C & F price of competing
imports. It is unlikely that foreign civil works contractors would compete
for awards; however, if they do, qualified domestic civil works contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of the
foreign contractors.
xiii.     The estimated total project cost is US$18.9 million, including
local taxes of US$1.9 million; the foreign exchange component is US$9.2
million. The Federal Republic of Germany is supplying equipment to the
value of US$0.6 million equivalent for the Wau Vocational Training Center
and tue proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would correspond to about
61% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties; the Federal Republic
of Germany's contribution would represent a further 4%. The project would be
completed in about seven years.
xiv.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$10.0 million.






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first education project in the Sudan under Credit No. 122-SU
of 1968 for an amount of US$8.5 million, was designed to assist improvements
in secondary education mainly through the introduction of science and prac-
tical subjects, the expansion and upgrading of secondary teacher training
and expansion of diploma level training in agriculture. Because of dis-
turbances in the South at that time, all project items, were located in
the Northern provinces (Khartoum, Northern, Kassala, Kordofan and Blue Nile).
1.02      Due to initial delays in credit effectiveness, belated engagement
of consultant architects, political difficulties and frequent labor strikes
affecting delivery of construction materials, the implementation of the
project has been slower than planned at appraisal. However, project imple-
mentation is now proceeding satisfactorily and is expected to be completed
by December, 1976. A cost-overrun of only US$0.7 million equivalent is
anticipated.
1.03      During the period of civil war, many of the villagers in the
Southern provinces (Equatoria, Bahr-el-Ghazal and Upper Nile) were evacuated
and many people fled to neighboring countries. With the Addis Ababa Agree-
ment in March 1972, the rapid resettlement of these provinces caused
serious economic and social problems. In November 1972, a Bank Group
special economic mission visited Southern Sudan and found, among other
things, a severe lack of educational opportunities for children and for
adults deprived of schooling during the disturbances. The mission also
reported an acute shortage of skilled manpower to implement rural rehabil-
itation and reconstruction programs and recommended urgent formulation of
an appropriate education project to help mitigate these problems.
1.04      On the basis of this recommendation, a Bank/Unesco mission visited
the Sudan in August 1973 to further explore the Government's priorities for
educational development, obtain their views on the economic mission's
recommendation and discuss the content, size and timing of a possible second
education project.
1.05      The Government agreed with the recommendation for an education
project in the Southern Region and additionally requested that considera-
tion be given to extending the scope of the project to include the pro-
vinces of Kassala, Kordofan, and Darfur, where educational opportunities
are as severely lacking as in the Southern Sudan.



-2-
1.06      Pending completion of a sector survey, probably in 1977, the pro-
posed second education project would be an interim investment designed to
alleviate some of the immediate and most pressing needs of the sector; it
would help introduce the objectives of the first education project (para.
1.01) to the Southern provinces and provide educational opportunities for
rural people. Specifically, it aims at expanding and improving general
and non-formal education with an innovative approach to rural education,
reorienting and strengthening teacher education, and increasing the supply
of technicians and skilled workers. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$18.9 million with a foreign exchange component of US$9.2
million.
1.07      A Bank mission which visited the Sudan in November-December 1973,
to simultaneously prepare and appraise the project, consisted of Messrs.
S. Santos (Agricultural Educator), R. Cambridge (Economist), G. Schaffer
(Architect) of the Bank and K. Taylor (Educational Planner, Unesco). In
March and November 1974, Messrs. J.L. Scearce (Architect) and S. Santos
returned to the Sudan to complete the appraisal.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
2.01      Socio-economic Background.  The Democratic Republic of the
Sudan is the largest country in Africa and has an area of approximately
1,000,000 square miles, or about ten times that of the United Kingdom.
It extends 1,200 miles from Egypt to Uganda and 1,Q00 miles from the Red
Sea to Libya and Chad. Except for the highlands bordering Ethiopia, the
Sudan is an immense plain divided into three fairly distinct regions:' the
northern zone consisting of the Libyan desert in the west, separated by
the narrow Nile valley from the Nubian desert extending to the Red Sea;
the central zone consisting of large fertile areas, such as the rainlands
of Kassala, Gedarif, Tokar and the Gezira plain; and the southern equa-
torial belt. The Sudan is divided into nine provinces: Blue Nile,
Kordofan, Darfur, Kassala, Northern, Khartoum, Bahr-El-Ghazal, Equatoria
and Upper Nile. The latter three provinces make up the Southern Region,
which has a large degree of autonomy in domestic affairs.
2.02      The population, estirmated at 16.5 million in 1973 is probably
increasing at about 2.8% p.a. and may reach 21.9 million by 1980; about
one-quarter live in the Southern Region. Except in the Khartoum and Port
Sudan areas, the population, of which about one-seventh is nomadic, tend
to live in small isolated clusters.
2.03      In 1970, 45% of the population was below the age of 15, 52%
between 15 and 64 and 3% over 64; the 7.1 million children under 15 in
1970 is expected to rise to 10.2 million by 1980. This rapid rise coupled
with the widely dispersed population presents difficult problems in pro-
viding children with adequate facilities for education, health and other
social services.



-3-
2.04      The ethnic composition of the population differs considerably
throughout the country. In the Central and Northern provinces, the popu-
lation is mainly of Arab origin along with a mixture of Caucasion and
African extraction. Arabic is spoken and Islam is the predominant reli-
gion. The people of the South have been classified into three main groups:
the Nilotes, the Nilo-Hamites and the Sudanese; they vary widely in physi-
cal appearance, customs and languages, of which there are 12, with Arabic
or pidgin-Arabic the most common.
2.05      Agriculture dominates Sudan's economy, contributing more than
half the domestic product, 85% of employment and over 90% of export earn-
ings. Cash-crop developments have taken place primarily in the Northern
and Central areas, while the Southern Region is essentially a subsistence
economy where farming and herding practices are primitive; their improve-
ment involves raising the skills of the population as well as developing
their attitudes.
2.06      Development Potential.  Since independence, the Sudan has had
two major development plans which have not been entirely successful for
five principal reasons: (a) lack of expertise in planning, preparing
and executing development projects; (b) an inadequate level of public
savings; (c) political instability; (d) a low level of private investment
in the face of uncertain policies towards the private sector; and (e) in-
adequacy of basic infrastructure, particularly transportation. A plan
for the period 1977-1980 is under preparation with technical assistance
provided by UNDP. There is, however, potential for development. Large
tracts of land are suitable for rain-fed cultivation or animal husbandry
and irrigation water is available under the bipartite agreement with the
Arab Republic of Egypt. Only a beginning has been made in exploiting the
forestry and fishing potential. There are also interesting prospects for
mining, namely, iron ore, chromite and copper. The manufacturing sector is
small, and based largely on the processing of agricultural products, but as
agricultural production increases and diversifies, the potential in this
sector may grow.
2.07      In the Southern Region, large areas appear suitable for agricul-
tural development. During the disturbances (para 1.03), most cultivated
plots reverted to bushland and development schemes were abandoned. However,
tea, coffee, rice, horticultural products and vegetables have been grown
successfully and their production can be expanded if financial and human
resources are made available. There is a potential for livestock development
and for increasing the output of forestry products and fresh fish production
with possibilities for import substitution and, in some cases for export.
2.08      Employment in the modern sector.  There are no up-to-date and com-
prehensive data on the labor force, its composition, distribution, and other
characteristics. Neither are there reliable estimates of the trained manpower



-4-
needed to exploit the development potentials outlined in the previous para-
graphs. It is estimated, however, that for the country as a whole, wage
earners constitute about 15% of the labor force; in the Southern Region, the
number is even smaller and limited to the public service.
2.09      A major ILO/World Employment Program Study is presently under-
way which, together with a manpower survey being started, will provide
data required for manpower planning. It is known, however, that the problem
of educated and semi-educated unemployed is becoming acute. Most graduates
of post-secondary institutions and universities are able to get jobs or are
absorbed under the Special Employment Relief Fund which is discussed below
at para. 2.10. It is, however, the secondary school leavers and drop-outs
who crowd the urban labor markets and, being inadequately trained and unwill-
ing to go back to rural areas, cause economic and social problems.  It is
estimated that during the last four years, an average of 16,500 junior
secondary school leavers and 5,000 higher secondary school leavers entered
the labor market yearly, while job creation has been stagnating due to the
slow rate of growth of the economy and the aftermath of the political,dis-
turbances.
2.10      Since 1967-68, the Government has adopted a policy of employing
every post secondary and university graduate unable to find a job in the
private sector. If a civil service position is not available, the graduate
is automatically placed on the rolls of the Special Employment Relief Fund.
Apart from the strain on public finance, the employment of these graduates
without reference to economic needs causes distortions and social problems.
Efforts made to deploy unemployed graduates to the Southern Region, where
skills at all levels are lacking, have encountered limited success because
of ethnical, linguistic and other differences in cultural background (paras.
2.01-2.04). However, the Government is adopting measures to ensure that
skilled personnel in public service would be available for high priority
projects in the Southern Region. Although these institutional rigidities
of the Sudanese labor market are unlikely to be overcome for many years,
steps have to be taken to improve the utilization of available trained man-
power. During negotiations the Government confirmed its intention of
studying the functions of the labor market and public sector's appointments
and incentives policies and practices, as a part of the educational sector
survey it plans to carry out. By September 30, 1977, the Government will
exchange views with the Association on the findings of this survey and on
the actions it intends to take.
2.11      Human Resources and Rural Development.  Since 90% of the popula-
tion of the Sudan live in rural areas and 85% of its labor force is engaged
in agriculture (para. 2.05), socio-economic development depends primarily
on improved farming and herding practices. Services to the rural population
are extremely limited, e.g., there is no national agricultural credit system,
marketing facilities are available only for large commercial farms and,
excluding a few intensive development schemes, there are no more than 200
agricultural extension workers for a farming population of some 3.5 million
families.



2.12      The development plan now under preparation (para. 2.06) is expected
to give highest priority to agriculture and to the infrastructure required for
rural development. The IDA-assisted Rahad irrigation project and the agri-
cultural rehabilitation project for the Southern Region are part of this plan
as are programs under consideration to establish an effective credit system,
to improve marketing facilities, to strengthen the extension service and to
prepare a better transportation network throughout the country. However,
widespread illiteracy and the low skills of the rural population are severe
constraints on these developments. The illiteracy rate is estimated at 85%
of the adult population for the country as a whole and at over 95% in rural
areas. Because over 70% of school facilities are concentrated in urban areas,
a scheme to provide basic literacy, numeracy and skills for the rural popula-
tion should be formulated and implemented to support the plans for increased
agricultural production and improved living standards.
2.13      In summary, there is a clear need for major readjustments in the
formation and use of human resources and for development of a national learn-
ing system which will take into account ecological and ethnical differences
(para. 2.04), regional imbalances between supply and requirements of educa-
tion outputs (paras. 2.09 - 2.10) and the agricultural character and poten-
tial of the Sudanese economy and society (para. 2.11). Pending these re-
adjustments, interim investments in education and training should be limited
to immediate high priority areas which would conform with any long-term
strategy emerging from replanning of the sector.
III.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
3.01      Evaluation of the Sector.  The education and training sector is
described in the Appendix and basic data are in Chart 1. About 38% of the
eligible age group is enrolled in primary schools (grades 1-6), 11% in
junior secondary (grades 7-9) and 5% in upper secondary (grades 10-12).
Technical and vocational courses attract only about 5,000 of the total
191,000 enrollment at the secondary level, and post secondary and higher
education is provided for some 16,000 students.
3.02      A major weakness of the education sector is that insufficient pro-
vision is made for the training of adults and out-of-school youths. An
improvement in their skills is a prerequisite for increased agricultural pro-
duction and improved living standards in rural areas (para. 2.12). However,
teachers and other personnel resources at the disposal of the sector are not
trained to assume an expanding role in community development, and to use
school facilities for disseminating information in agriculture, hygiene,
nutrition and child care or for developing productive skills among the rural
population. In those provinces where isolated attempts have been made to use
primary schools as focal points for community activities, failures have
usually resulted because the primary schools, which are frequently built on
a self-help basis, are invariably devoid of essential furniture and basic
teaching aids.



- 6 -
3.03      In addition, there are severe imbalances in educational opportuni-
ties between provinces. For example, in the Southern Region, only about 10%
of the eligible children are enrolled in primary schools compared to 47% in
the rest of the country. Furthermore, less than 6% of the total junior secon-
dary enrollment and 5% of the total upper secondary enrollment are in the
South. In the Southern Region, the existing embryonic vocational training
system has an inadequate physical plant.
3.04      In general education, the curriculum is basically literary and
essentially a preparation for proceeding from level to level. As a conse-
quence, drop-outs and school leavers join the labor force without the skills
and attitudes on which to build on-the-job training and experience (para. 2.09).
The technical and vocational institutes are generally too small to be econom-
ical as most of them have only between 18 and 100 students (Annex 2); in
addition they have not developed adequate liaison with industry and this
largely accounts for the failure of their graduates to meet employers' ex-
pectations. In contrast, the agricultural institute at Shambat gives a
satisfactory program of instruction. However, this institute and those
being completed as a part of the first IDA education project are primarily
for diploma level (grade 15) specialists for positions in Government mech-
anized farms, commercial livestock production and for certain administrative
and supervisory posts. Since this category of manpower is essentially for
the promotion of commercial farming, its impact on rural areas is limited
because these areas are in general populated by subsistence farmers (paras.
2.05 - 2.06). Facilities for training field extension personnel to reach
the small farmers are inadequate, being limited to the small Animal Husbandry
Institute at Khartoum (120 places) established in 1972. The Government,
however, is upgrading two existing upper secondary agricultural schools (600
places each), rebuilding an agricultural training center (200 places) and
establishing a veterinary upper secondary school, all of which are expected
to be fully operational by 1975, to meet the need for additional field
extension workers.
3.05      Financial resources for educational development are very limited.
Unit recurrent costs of instruction are high as compared with most East
African countries and the wide-spread practice of boarding increases consi-
derably the burden of education on public finance (Appendix para. 29). In
1972-73, 16.5% of the Government recurrent budget was devoted to education
and, if past trends in enrollment growth are left unchecked, over 30% of the
Government recurrent budget would be appropriated to education by 1985 in
order to enroll 75% of the eligible age group in primary, 22% in junior secon-
dary, and 13% in upper secondary. This indicates that major readjustments are
required to carefully husband limited financial resources to attain maximum
development impact.
3.06      Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans.  Sudan plans to conduct a
thorough examination of its education sector with a view to defining a
policy and strategy which would meet the long-term social and economic
objectives of the country (para. 2.13). This examination would identify
targets of educational development for differing population groups, consider
financial and other constraints and ways to reduce costs, and recommend
metho-s to make instruction more effective.



- 7 -
3.07      Because a long term education plan is not available, feasible
projections of school enrollments, teacher needs and supply, and related
recurrent and capital expenditures have been prepared by Bank Group staff in
consultation with the Government and are shown in Annexes 3, 4 and 5. These
projections indicate: (a) lower rates of expansion than in previous years
of both formal secondary and post secondary education in the country as a
whole, but (i) increased use of the resources for programs directed to adults
and out-of-school youths and (ii) addition of facilities almost exclusively
in the provinces where education is now least developed; (b) expansion of
primary schools with a view to enrolling 50% of the eligible pupils by 1985;
(c) reduction in the overall cost of boarding in primary education in order
to provide for the expansion and improvement of basic education; (d) increase
in unit cost of instruction of upper secondary education as the practical
subjects program expands; and (e) improved use of resources in post secondary
education as a result of rationalization and consolidation of institutions.
Under these projections, recurrent expenditure on education would represent
about 18% of the budget in 1985; this assumes that Government revenue would
increase by 7% p.a. in real terms (or at approximately the same rate as in
the 1960s). Therefore, detailed studies are required to find cost-saving
devices which could make these targets readily attainable. During negoti-
ations, the Government confirmed that studies to improve the efficiency of
the education system, and reduction of unit recurrent costs would be carried
out as a part of the overall re-examination of the sector. By September 30,
1977, the Government will exchange views with the Association on the findings
of these studies.
3.08      While the necessary studies are being carried out, there are
priority objectives for interim investment which stem from the needs described
in paras. 3.02 - 3.04 above and can be defined as follows: (a) to increase
learning opportunities for out-of-school youths and adults to enable them to
participate more actively in rural development; and (b) to redress the exist-
ing imbalances in educational opportunities between provinces and to improve
relevance and quality of instruction.
3.09      To meet these priority objectives, the Government, in collaboration
with Bank Group staff, has prepared a limited investment program as described
in the next chapter.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist the investment program aimed at
expanding and improving education in the most deprived areas of the Sudan
by: (a) providing training facilities for out-of-school youths and adults,
(b) upgrading and providing facilities for primary and junior secondary
education, (c) strengthening teacher education and curriculum development,
(d) expanding training of skilled workers, and (e) assisting a nationwide
education sector review. The project would consist of:



(i) construction or extension and equipping of the institutions
listed below:
Approximate Number of Student Places
Type of Institute                   Existing       Additional       Total
Forty new Integrated Rural
Education Centers (IRECs)                                12,000        12,000
Three new Junior Secondary Schools           -                600            600
Extensions to one Primary
Teacher Training Institute
(Bahkt-er-Ruda)                           480               160           640
Extensions to one Vocational
Training Center (Wau)                     160               200            360
Total                       640            12,960         13,600
(ii)  The cost of specialist services and fellowships as required
for (a) teacher education, curriculum development, rural
education and farmer cooperatives; (b) planning and carrying
out a nationwide education sector review, and (c) project
administration including design and supervision of construction.
Project Items
4.02      The 40 Integrated Rural Education Centers (IRECs) would become focal
points for development of village life, as primary schools for children, and
centers of adult education and training in areas where fewest educational
opportunities are available. Each IREC would have facilities to support
courses in agriculture, farmer cooperatives, domestic science, health and
village crafts as well as for children's basic education.  The primary schot....
program would be taught within the context of the village environment and
courses for adults would focus on skill development. Each IREC would have
a health clinic to provide preventive care in the community and a store for
seed distribution particularly to those who participate in farmer training
courses to enable them to practice more effectively what they have learr,ed
and so improve the earning potential of the farmers in the community. The
distribution of seeds in the IREC8 would directly support the seed multipli-
cation scheme which the Government is launching with the IDA assisted A-ri-
cultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 476-SU).
4.03      The teachers of the IRECs would be selected and recruited from
existing primary school teachers, who would undertake at least six months
of training at Bahkt-er-Ruda Teacher Training Institute on skills needed for
the operation of the IRECs (e.g., rural crafts, nutrition, hygiene and rural
education teaching techniques). Three hundred and twenty teachers would be
required for the project IRECs and there is sufficient supply to ensure their
recruitment (Appendix para. 15).



- 9 -
4.04      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the revised
curriculum for basic education, the plan for adult education, and the train-
ing program for the IREC teachers will be provided to the Association for
comments within one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement.
4.05      The Ministry of Education would administer the IREC programs with
support by appropriate personnel from the Ministries of Agriculture, Health,
and Rural Development and Cooperatives particularly in teaching the courses
for adults. Planning and execution of the day-to-day activities in each IREC
would be the responsibility of the respective principals in cooperation with
designated ministerial personnel. During negotiations, the Government con-
firmed that an Inter-ministerial Committee of senior officials at the national
level will be organized, within a year of signing of the Credit Agreement, to
plan and oversee the implementation of the IREC programs, ensure coordination
among the appropriate Ministries, and conduct periodic evaluation of the effec-
tiveness of the IRECs for the development of village life. The evaluation
methodology will be developed and submitted to the Association for comment.
4.06      The additional 12,000 student places in the IRECs would increase
basic education enrollment by 10% in the Southern provinces and also provide
more student places in the areas of the provinces of Kassala, Darfur and
Kordofan where very few schools exist. In these two groups of provinces,
only 10% and 20%, respectively of the eligible primary school age group find
places. Upon completion, these IRECs are expected to have an output of 1800
primary school graduates p.a. Starting from the first year of operation, all
student places in the IRECs are expected to be filled since a large number of
children at different grade levels were deprived of schooling during the dis-
turbances. In addition, during the first three years of operation, 50,000
out-of-school youths and adults p.a. would participate in training programs
for the improvement of their skills. This number is expected to increase to
60,000 p.a. when the adult education program is fully established. In order
to attain maximum impact from scarce resources, 30 of the 40 project IRECs
would be constructed under a low-cost self-help scheme (type B IRECs) as
described in para. 5.11. The construction of the remaining 10 would follow
general contracting procedures (type A IRECs). The evaluation of the IREC
program would include, inter alia, the assessment of benefits and weaknesses
of the two types of IRECs as regards cost, quality and duration of construc-
tion.
4.07      Junior Secondary Schools.  During the disturbances, several junior
secondary schools were badly damaged in the Southern Region. Consequently,
although primary school enrollments are low, only about 17% of those who
finish find places in junior secondary schools. With multilateral assistance
the Government is now rehabilitating some of these schools and the proposed
project would establish three schools with a total capacity of 600 student
places and an expected output of 180 p.a. in areas where no junior secondary
schools exist. The teachers would be recruited from graduates of the exist-
ing Intermediate Teacher Training Colleges, of whom there is an adequate
supply. Including the 2,000 new places which the Government and multilateral



- 10 -
agencies are providing through their reconstruction program, places would be
provided for only about 5% of the relevant age group as compared with 14% in
the rest of the country but would prepare the ground for the development of
high and middle level manpower by meeting enrollment requirements of upper
secondary level institutions (grades 10-13) and subsequently, university
entrance.
4.08      The Bahkt-er-Ruda Teacher Training Institute (BRTTI) has been
selected by the Government to become the headquarters for curriculum develop-
ment and promotion of innovative methods of pre-service and in-service train-
ing for rural education. The proposed project would expand the BRTTI and
provide it with a Curriculum Development Center (CDC) where continuous up-
dating and evaluation of primary and secondary schools curricula would be
carried out. The Institute would also develop prototype teaching materials
and have an additional 160 student places to train teachers for IREC type
schools. An IREC would be established in an appropriate village accessible
to BRTTI to serve as laboratory for teacher trainees.
4.09      Wau Vocational Training Center (WVTC).  The reconstruction programs,
infrastructure improvement projects and agricultural development schemes in
the Southern Region have created a great demand for skilled workers (e.g.,
carpenters, bricklayers, mechanics, electricians and metal workers) which
has not been adequately met (para. 1.03). The proposed expansion of the I%VTC,
the only facility of its kind in the Region, from 160 student places to 360,
would assist in meeting this need. This expansion would require seven addi-
tional teachers trained at the Higher Technical Teacher Training Institute,
where output is sufficient to meet this demand. Instructional equipment for
the WVTC is being provided by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG).
4.10      Technical Assistance.  To assist in curriculum development, improve-
ment of teacher training, implementation of the IREC programs (paras. 4.02 -
4.05; 4.08) and project implementation, the project would provide for
specialists and overseas fellowships as follows: (a) two man-years each, fo)
a curriculum development specialist and a rural education specialist to assist
in planning, organizing and supervising the program of the proposed CDC at
BRTTI and to help the training of primary and junior secondary teachers in
rural education; they should each be appointed six months before completi:a
of the proposed expansion of the BRTTI; (b) three man-years for education
specialists in technical trades to assist reorganization of technical educa-
tion (para. 3.03) and in developing lesson plans, student manuals and tea'-ril,;
aids; these specialists should be recruited within six months of signing or
the Credit Agreement; (c) three man-years each for a rural education specialist
and a farmer cooperatives specialist to assist the Ministry of Education in
administering, supervising and evaluating .he IREC programs and the Ministry
of Rural Development and Cooperat:.ves in the training of field personnel ip
promoting, organizing and operating farmers' cooperatives; they should be
appointed approximately six months before the IRECs begin operations; (d)
six man-years of fellowships for training three staff members of the BRTTI
4in development of curricula, teaching aids and materials, and rural educatic--
they should start training within about one year of signing of the Credit



- 1 1 -
Agreement; (e) two man-years for educational planning consultants to support
local expertise in planning and conducting the education sector review (para.
3.06); the review should commence within one year of signing of the Credit
Agreement; and (f) ten man-years for specialists to assist in general project
administration and implementation, details of which are given in paras. 5.09 -
5.10.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost of the Project
5.01      Construction cost estimates have been derived by updating competi-
tive bidding conducted in January-March 1974 for schools in the first educa-
tion project and in consultation with the Ministry of Construction and Public
Works (MCPW). The unit prices used in costing the project reflect: (i) econom-
ical building standards which require maximum use of local labor and materials
and (ii) variations in costing due to geographical locations of sites. The
cost per square meter of the IRECs utilizing self-help is about US$100, com-
pared to an average of US$120 per square meter for all project institutions
including the ten IRECs to be constructed through contract award procedures.
The proposed schedules of accommodation for all institutions are austere but
appropriate for the functions intended with economical use factors. Furni-
ture and equipment cost estimates are reasonable; detailed lists would be
prepared during the design stage and reviewed by the Association.
5.02      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the various
items of the project are given in Annexes 6 and 7 and are summarized as
follows:



- 12 -
LSd (Millions)           US$ (Millions)        % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Civil Works. Furniture &
Instructional Equipment
1.  Integrated Rural
Education Centers           1.05    0.87    1.92    2.63    2.19    4.82    51%
2. Junior Secondary
Schools                     0.34    0.28    0.62    o.85    0.71    1.56    17%
3.  Teacher Training
Institute                   0.13    0.17    0.30    0.36    0.39    0.75       8%
4. Vocational Training
Center                      0.18    0.12    0.30    0.44    0.32    0.76       8%
Technical Assistance            0.12    0.25    0.37    0.28    o.64    0.92    10%
Professional Services           0.12    0.08    0.20    0.30    0.20    0.50       5%
Project Administration          0.01    0.03    0.01k    0.Oh    0.07    0.11      1%
Base Cost (July 1974)       1.95    1.80    3.75    4.90    4.52    9.42   100%
Contingencies
a)  Physical (9% of Base
Cost)                       0.19    0.16    0.35    o.48    o.4o    0.88
b)  Price Increases
(77% of Base Cost +
Physical Contingencies)    1.74    1.45    3.19    4.36    3.65    8.01
Sub-total                   1.93    1.61    3.54    4.84    4.05    8.89
Tctal                       3.88    3.41    7.29    9.74    8.57   18.31
FRG 1                                    2  0.2   .4       -       o.60    0.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST              3.88    3.65    L        2       9.17   18.91
1/ Equipment for vocational training center contributed by the Federal Republic
of Germany.



- 13 -
5.03      Custom Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct custom duties and taxes in line
with the practice of the Sudan Government to grant customs and tax exemption
to imports for educational purposes. Much of the building materials to be
used in construction, including cost of transportation, of the proposed proj-
ect institutions would be acquired on the local market, and accordingly, would
have been subject to custom duties and taxes. Of the estimated project cost
about US$1.9 million would represent customs duties and taxes.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies add 10% to the base
cost of civil works, instructional equipment and professional services and
5% to furniture, technical assistance and project administration. Estimated
price increases are based upon the following annual rates for which price
escalation has been calculated from the base cost date (July 1, 1974) in
accordance with the implementation schedule in Annex 8:
Furniture &        Professional Services,
Instructional     Technical Assistance &
Civil Works     Equipment           Project Administration
1974             18%               14%                    10%
1975            16%                12%                 7-1/2%
1976             14%               10%                 7-1/2%
1977-79         12%                8%                  7-1/2%
1980-85         10%                 7%                 7-1/2%
5.05      The Foreign Exchange Component of US$9.2 million (including US$0.6
million grant by the Federal Republic of Germany) has been calculated as
follows: (i) civil works, 42%; (ii) instructional equipment, 90%; (iii) furni-
ture and technical assistance, 70%; (iv) professional services, 40%; and (v)
project administration, 60%. The US$9.2 million represents 48% of the project
cost of US$18.9 million (including contingencies).
Financial Plan
5.06      The total project cost of US$18.9 million equivalent would be financed
as follows:



- 14 -
Federal
Government    IDA        Republic       Total
of Sudan    Credit    of Germany    Project
1.   Civil Works                      2.03        5.09        -            7.12
2.   Furniture                        0.08        0.25         -           0.33
3.   Instructional Equipment          0.04        0.40       0.60           1.04
4.   Professional Services            0.17        0.33         -           0.50
5.   Technical Assistance             0.28        0.64         -           0.92
6.   Project Administration           0.02        0.09         -           0.11
7.   Contingencies                    5.69        3.20        -            8.89
Total Project Cost                    8.31 /1   10.00         0.60         18.91
/1   Includes estimated taxes of IJS$1.9 million.
5.07      The Recurrent Expenditures generated by the project would be about
LSd 0.6 million p.a., or about 1% of the projected recurrent expenditures
on education in 1980. The Government attaches high priority to the proposed
project and is able to provide these expenditures, as well as its share of
the capital costs of the project.
Project Implementation
5.08      The project would be implemented in about seven years after credit
effectiveness (Annex 8) including six months for completion of payments and
withdrawals from the credit account.
5.09      Administration.  The existing Project Unit established within the
Ministry of Education for the implementation of the first IDA education
project would also be responsible for the financial and administrative con-
trol of this project. To further assist implementation a sub-Project Unit
for the Southern Region would be established in Juba. Due to these increased
responsibilities, additional personnel would be required for the Project Unit
whose full-time staff would comprise: a project director directly responsi-
ble to the under-secretary of the Ministry of Education, two assistant direc-
tors, one located in Juba, an accountant, and adequate office facilities and
supporting staff. The Project Unit would be further strengthened by the
specialist services of a procurement officer and a quantity surveyor. Supple-
mentary operational expenses including, inter alia, provisions for about four
man-years of specialists services and general expenses of the Unit(s) would
be included in the project. The Association would be consulted on appoint-
ments to the positions of the project director, assistant project directors
and accountant. The specialists would be appointed on terms and conditions
mutually agreeable to the Borrower and the Association. Prior to credit
negotiations, the Government appointed additional staff to the Project Unit,
consisting of the two assistant project directors and the accountant. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the staff of the Project
and sub-Project Units would be maintained throughout the project implementa-
tion period.



- 15 -
5.10      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  For the design,
preparation of construction documents and supervision of construction, the
services of the Ministry of Construction and Public Works (MCPW) would be
utilized. To supplement the MCPW staff, provision for about six man-years
of specialist services is included in the project for: (i) an architect
(1 man-year); (ii) a structural engineer (2 man-years); (iii) a mechanical
engineer (1 man-year); and (iii) a quantity surveyor (2 man-years). These
specialists would be appointed on terms and conditions mutually acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association. In addition to the specialist services,
provisions are included in the project cost for architectural/engineering
services provided by MCPW. Should an increased workload of MCPW delay pro-
ject implementation, then consultants would be selected and appointed on
terms and conditions mutually agreeable to the Borrower and the Association.
5.11      Standardized designs of the project institutions would be devel-
oped by MCPW utilizing economical building standards which would incorporate
maximum use of local labor and materials. All project institutions would be
constructed through usual contract award procedures except for 30 IRECs
(Type B) which would be by departmental forces (force account) of the MCPW,
utilizing "self-help," consisting of unskilled labor contributed by villagers.
About 20% of the required labor is expected to be provided through self-help.
Before credit negotiations, the Government provided to the Association an
operational plan for the implementation of the design and construction program
which, inter alia, outlined procedures regarding construction of the 30 IRECs
by self-help (para. 4.06).
5.12      Sites for the IRECs are being selected by committees in each of
the provinces where IRECs are to be established. The Ministry of Education
is coordinating the committees in the Northern provinces and the Regional
Ministry of Education for the Southern Region. Sites have been selected for
the three junior secondary schools. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that all sites, acceptable to the Association, would be
selected and acquired, as and when needed, for carrying out the project.
Procurement
5.13      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and im-
ported construction materials would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
except as follows: (1) type "B" IRECs would be constructed by departmental
forces (force account) by the MCPW utilizing self-help; (ii) contracts for
equipment, books and furniture costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each
contract, provided however, that the aggregate total does not exceed U'S$100,000
equivalent; and (iii) locally procured construction materials and transporta-
tion services. Contracts for these items would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures which are satisfactory to the Association. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to permit bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing



- 16 -
rate of import duties, whichever is lower over the C & F price of competing
foreign suppliers. It is unlikely that foreign civil works contractors would
compete for awards; however, if they do, qualified domestic civil works con-
tractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices
of competing foreign contractors.
5.14      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed
by the Association. Review of tender evaluation documents for civil works
by the Association prior to award would be required only for contracts above
US$250,000; for equipment, furniture, local transportation services, and
construction materials, review of tender evaluation documents by the Associa-
tion prior to award would not be required for contracts of less than US$50,000
up to an aggregate total of US$1.0 million equivalent.
Disbursement
5.15      Disbursement (Annex 9) would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance
and professional services, or 80% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) on locally manufactured furniture or equipment;
(b)  60% of total expenditures for civil works, and of expenditures
for locally purchased construction materials, local transporta-
tion services, labor for type "B" IRECs, locally purchased
imported furniture and equipment, MCPW expenses for professional
services, and project implementation unit expenses. Disbursement
for labor, locally procured construction materials for IRECs and
local expenditure for professional services and project administra-
tion expenses will be made against a certificate of expenditure,
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the Borrower and would be available for
inspection by the Association in the course of project supervision.
Upon agreement between the Government and Association, any funds remaining
on completion would be used for other project related items. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1981, and the proposed Credit Closing
Date is June 30, 1982.



- 17 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project has high and urgent priority because,
unless minimum manpower and human resources needs are met, the rehabilitation
and development programs for the poorest areas of the Sudan cannot be carried
out (paras. 1.03, 2.12, 2.13). Within this context, the project would be the
principal instrument for developing skills of diverse levels and types in the
Southern Region, placing emphasis on training of craftsmen, non-formal educa-
tion in rural skills for youths and adults and the expansion of basic and
junior secondary education to generate an adequate supply of high and middle
level manpower. Because the project would assist in redirecting investment
within the education sector towards the most deprived areas of the Sudan and
provide a basic social service, it would facilitate a shift in investment and
employment patterns in these provinces. The project is expected to create an
additional permanent wage employment of 700 in the project provinces excluding
secondary employment creation (i.e., a 5% increase over the estimated wage
employment in 1973).
6.02      The thrust of the project is also directed towards redressing acute
imbalances in educational opportunities (para. 3.03) and, thereby, improving
social mobility. After completion of feasible Government programs to ex-
pand education including the proposed project in those areas where the
sector is least developed (para. 3.07), about 30% of the relevant age group
(7-12) would find places in primary schools in the provinces where the
project schools would be located as against only 16% in 1973. The correspond-
ing ratios for junior secondary education (aged 13-15) would be 8% by 1980
for the provinces most directly affected by the project as against 4% in 1973.
As a result, the imbalance in educational opportunities between the project
provinces and the rest of the country would be reduced. A greater reduction
cannot be contemplated at present because of a shortage of capable teachers
willing to work in the most deprived provinces of the country, and an inadequate
supply of building materials, poor transportation and other difficulties
inherent in executing a larger program than that presently envisaged.
6.03      The project would also contribute toward the reorientation of
education to attune the content of instruction with the socio-economic needs
of the Sudan. The proposed project would complement the first education
project, which represented the first major effort to reorient education in
the country. However, whereas the first education project was directed to-
ward providing trained manpower for commerce, industry, services and large
scale commercial farming, the emphasis of the proposed second project would
be on developing skills of present and future small farmers (51% of the
project expenditure), reorienting the role of primary school teachers to
make them community development agents (8% of the project expenditure) and
providing skilled workers for the rural rehabilitation program (14% of the
project expenditure). This shift in emphasis between the first and the pro-
posed second project suggests that even more far-reaching readjustments in
the formation and use of human resources in the Sudan are likely to result
from the review of the sector studies which would also be promoted as a part
of the project (paras. 3.06 and 4.10).



- 18 -
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  This project provides educational
facilities in remote areas in a country where transportation presents un-
usually complex problems (para. 2.0)6). It allows for a considerable pro-
portion of civil works to be carried out under self-help by villagers, and
requires a major mobilization effort at the village level. In addition, the
project promotes a new type of learning center - the IREC - which still has
to be tested for its effectiveness on rural development and the response it
would receive from the communities. There are, therefore, considerable risks
involved: (a) although a seven year implementation period has been allowed,
transportation may cause problems and delays more serious than those now
anticipated; (b) the self-help scheme may not prove practical in all project
areas; and (c) difficulty may be encountered in interministerial coordination
of the IREC integrated programs.
6.05      To minimize these risks, the following measures have been taken:
(a) the Government has established a sub-Project Unit in the Southern Region
and is carrying out part of the preliminary work toward selecting sites for
the project institutions (paras. 5.09 & 5.12); (b) the Government has prepared
an operational plan for the implementation of the construction program, particularly
for the 30 IRECs to be built by self-help (para. 5.11); and (c) special pro-
visions have been made - as a part of the project - to ensure interministerial
coordination for the operation and -evaluation of the IRECs (para. 4.05) and
for the training of the required personnel (para. 4.03).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHEDD AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) the education sector review, the revision for curriculum
in basic education, the plans for adult education and the
establishment of an Inter-ministerial Committee to plan
and oversee the IREC program (paras. 2.10, 3.07, 4.04 and
4.05); and
(b) the staff of the Project Unit, sub-Project Unit and MCPW
and site acquisition (paras. 5.09, 5.11 and 5.12).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$10 million equivalent to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan on
standard IDA terms.



APPENDIX
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Structure and Management
1.        The structure of education comprises (Chart 2):
(a)  Primary School (grades 1-6) for 7-12 years age group;
(b)  Junior Secondary School (grades 7-9) for the 13-15 years
age group, with entry open to all primary school graduates
but dependent on availability of places;
(c)  Upper Secondary School, divided into the following principal
types:
(i) adademic (grades 10-12) for the 16-18 years age group
with arts or science emphasis;
(ii)  technical (grades 10-13) for 16-19 years age group which
includes commercial, technical, agricultural and other
vocationally oriented upper secondary schools;
(iii)  teacher training (grades 10-13) for 16-19 years age group
which offers pre-service training for primary school
teachers.
Entry to the upper secondary schools is on a selective basis
from the junior secondary school.
(d)  Higher Education of three levels with competitive entry for
upper secondary graduates (Annex 2):
Ci) Certificate level with one or two-year courses mostly
in vocational professional subjects including inter-
mediate teacher training for junior secondary teachers;
(ii) Diploma level with three-year courses in certain fields
of specialization;
(iii) University level with courses of four to six years
duration.
2.        Prior to 1970, when the present structure became effective, the
primary education course had a duration of four years and was followed by
four years of junior and four years of upper secondary school. As the new
structure is still undergoing a period of adjustment, curricula at all levels
are under review by a committee chaired by the Minister of State for General
Education.



APPENDIX
Page 2
3.        Administrative and academic control are vested in the Ministry of
Education through its two branches: the General Education Administration
which is responsible for primary, junior secondary and upper secondary educa-
tion and the Higher Education Administration which oversees the programs of
post-secondary institutions including public and private universities. The
Minister of Education is responsible for these two branches. He is assisted
by the Minister of State for General Education and the Minister of Education
of the Southern Region (Chart 3).  The Ministry of Education of the Southern
Region is responsible for the general education program of the Region within
the framework of national policies and objectives.
4.        The management of primary and junior secondary education is highly
decentralized when compared with many East African countries. Except for the
formulation of educational policies and for curriculum development, which is
the responsibility of the Central Government, all other activities related
to primary and junior secondary education are administered and supervised by
nine Provincial Councils, each headed by a Provincial Commissioner. In each
province, academic supervision is the responsibility of the Provincial Educa-
tion Officer, assisted by inspectors who are directly employed by the Pro-
vincial council.
Efficiency of the Sector
5.        The Comparative Education Indicators (Annex 1) show that while unit
expenditure for education of about US$6 equivalent is comparatively high for
a country with a per capita income of US$120, the literacy rate (15%) and the
enrollment ratios at the primary and secondary levels are low.
Total      As % of                  Teacher-
Enrollments   Relevant         %        Pupil
000's      Age Group    Female       Ratio
Primary School                    1,082           38           33        1:45
Junior Secondary School              135          11           27        1:21
Upper Secondary School               56            5           23        1:22
Higher Education                     16          n.a.         n.a.       1:10
6.        Completion rates at these four levels are satisfactory, at about
803o' in each grade, but progression rat:es from level to level (25% from primary
to junior secondary 38% from junior to upper secondary and 34% from upper to
post-secondary) are indicative of the lack of school places.
7.        The distribution of enrollment in academic (92%) and vocational/
technical/agricultural (8%) upper secondary schools is severely imbalanced
and is further aggravated by the absence of practical courses in academic
secondary schools. At the university and college levels, an imbalance also



APPENDIX
Page 3
exists between enrollments in the Sciences (30%) and those in the Arts (70%).
However, the very small percentage of post-secondary enrollments in technical
level institutes (17%) compared to those of universities and colleges (83%)
is more significant than this imbalance.
8.        The geographical distribution of educational facilities is very
uneven; 70% of the schools are in urban areas where only about 10% of the
population lives. Furthermore, 82% of the total primary and secondary school
enrollment is concentrated in four provinces (Khartoum, Northern, Blue Nile
and Kassala) while the remainder (18%) are distributed among the five other
provinces whose population is more than one-half of the total of the country.
Curricula and Facilities
9.        The curricula of primary, junior secondary and upper secondary
schools are essentially a preparation for the next level of education. As
implied in para. 7, these curricula are highly literary, urban oriented and
do not include practical subjects. Science is taught as a body of knowledge
to be learned by rote with occasional laboratory demonstrations conducted
by the teachers, rather than by the students themselves. The Government,
however, recognizes these shortcomings and steps have been initiated by the
committee headed by the Minister of State for General Education (para. 2)
to re-orient the general education curriculum. In addition, with IDA
assistance (first education project, Credit 122-SU) 13 secondary schools
and two teacher training institutes are in the process of being expanded and
equipped to serve as demonstration schools for the improvement of science
teaching and the introduction of practical courses in secondary education.
10.       Facilities for primary, secondary and most of the technical schools
are generally poor, particularly as regards equipment for science teaching
and practical activities. In the Southern Region which was most affected
by the past disturbances, the majority of the primary schools have no desks,
blackboards and basic didactic aids.
11.       Technical and vocational secondary schools are of two types:
(a) technical upper secondary schools, whose graduates are eligible for
higher education, offer four-year courses in agriculture, commerce, technical
crafts or home economics, and (b) vocational secondary schools offer a three-
year terminal course in technical crafts and short courses of six months to
one year's duration to junior secondary school leavers. Basic data are as
follows:



APPENDIX
Page 4
Teacher/
No. of        Enroll-    No. of      Student
Type                Schools         ment      Teachers    Ratio
Technical Upper Secondary
Schools                       (16)        (4308)       (278)      (1:16)
Agriculture                     2           760          40        1:19
Commercial                      3           968          33        1:29
Technical Crafts               1(          2330         190        1:12
Home Economics                  I           250          15        1:16
Vocational Secondary Schools
(Technical Crafts)              3           360          30       1:12
Total               19          4668         308        1:15
It is obvious that the average number of students per teacher is small and
uneconomical and the distribution of enrollment in the different areas of
specialization appears to place excessive emphasis on industrial training
at the comparative neglect of agricultural training. A reorganization pro-
gram needs to be prepared as a part of the overall re-examination of the
education sector which the Government intends to conduct.
12.       Fifty percent of the weekly timetable of the technical upper
secondary schools is devoted to general education, 18% to technical theory
and 32% to workshop or field practice. The vocational secondary schools
place less emphasis on technical theory and general education (25%) and
more on workshop practice (75%), but their workshops are often small and
inadequately equipped.
13.       The number of graduates each year from academic upper secondary
schools greatly exceeds places available in post-secondary institutions and
the labor market's absorptive capacity. It is expected that, following reor-
ganization of technical-vocational schools, a larger proportion of upper
secondary enrollment would be directed either towards these schools or com-
prehensive secondary schools offering practical subjects. This could improve
the graduates' employment prospects.
Teacher Education
14.       As reflected in the curricula of the primary and secondary schools
(para. 9), teacher education at all levels of general education mainly pre-
pares the teacher for academic instruction and is not oriented towards prac-
tical skill development. The teacher training institutes are also inadequately



APPENDIX
Page 5
equipped for training in science subjects. Substantial qualitative improve-
ments in teacher education are necessary, therefore, to support the curricu-
lum reforms being initiated by the Government in primary and secondary schools.
15.       Primary teacher training (grades 10-13) is carried out in 17 pri--
mary teacher training institutes with an enrollment of 8,500 students and an
output of 2,000 p.a.  No significant increase in output is necessary to
sustain the projected increase in primary school enrollment, which is expected
to reach 2.06 million or 50% of the relevant age group in 1985.
16.       Junior secondary teacher training (grades 13-14) is provided in
two intermediate teacher training institutions with 650 students and an
output of 300 p.a. In accordance with the projected increase in junior
secondary school enrollment from 11% to 18% (or by some 181,000 students),
these institutes would need to expand their output by about 55%. An inter-
mediate teacher training institute with a capacity of 600 is currently being
constructed under the first education project assisted by IDA and the first
graduates are scheduled for 1978. This would meet additional teacher re-
quirements provided that the number of students per teacher would increase,
as proposed, from 21 to 35 (Annex 3).
17.       Upper secondary teacher training (grades 13-16) is conducted in
one higher teacher training institute in Omdurman with a capacity of 360
students and an output of about 75 p.a. This institute assisted under the
first IDA education project is being expanded and equipped to offer practical
training to prospective technical, commercial and home economics teachers.
An additional intake of 440 students would raise its output to about 160 p.a.
Since the projected increase in upper secondary enrollment up to 1985 is not
expected to be substantial, this institute would provide additional teacher
needs.
Higher Education
18.       There are four universities, 11 colleges, 13 diploma and 10 certif-
icate level institutes, all located in the Northern provinces. Of the 15,980
students enrolled in post-secondary institutions, 13,179 (83%) are in univer-
sities and colleges, 1,808 (11%) in diploma institutes and 995 (6%) in certif-
icate schools. These figures suggest that any expansion of post-secondary
education ouglht to give priority to diploma and certificate level courses
rather than to degree courses in order to attain the balanced distribution
of enrollment by level which is generally required for economic development.
19.       The distribution of enrollments by subject areas also indicates
certain imbalances. The proportion of university students in business studies,
arts and social sciences (63%) is high while at diploma and certificate levels,
enrollments in agriculture and forestry are low (18%) for a country whose
economy is largely dependent on agriculture.



APPENDIX
Page 6
Enrollments by Level
University          Diploma    Certificate
Fields of Study             & College
No.     %           No.   %    No.        %
Natural Sciences                      1362    11
Agriculture, Veterinary
Science & Forestry                  923      7          482   27    40         4
Engineering & Architecture            1068     8          263   15
Medicine, Pharmacy & Health            819     6          185   10   110        11
Ieteorology                             -      -           -      -   150       15
Economics & Business Studies          4235    32           -      -    -         -
Arts & Law                            3521    27           -      -    -         -
Education                              648     5          650   36    -          -
Fine Arts
Music and Theater                       -      -          115    6    -          -
Reeligion                              450     4           -      -    -         -
Secretarial                             -      -           66    3    45         5
Police Training                         -      -           -      -   250       25
Telecommunications                      -      -           -      -   400       40
Printing & Textiles                     -      -           47    3    -          -
Total                         13,179   100         1,808  100   995      100
The enrollment in the 34 colleges and institutes ranges from 18 to 650, with
50% of the institutions having under 100 students and 70% below 200. The
education sector review proposed by the Government should consider possible
ways to consolidate these institucions into more efficient and economic units.
Non-formal Education
20.       Non-formal education consists mainly of the literacy program of
the Ministry of Education. About 100,000 youths and adults (or some 2% of
the population of working age) are enrolled in some 2,000 classes conducted
all over the country.
21.       The agricultural extension service has only about 200 extension
officers who generally serve in cotton production areas where large irrigation
schemes are located (e.g., Gezira, Khashm el Girba, Rahad and Es suki); thus,
they reach less than 5% of the country's farmers.  Expansion of the extension
service is, however, expected to start next year when graduates from the
training institutes for field extension workers (para. 3.04) would be availa-
ble. In addition, the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives with a
field force of about 150, conducts meetings in rural areas to promote self-
help, cooperative activities, and citizenship. Finally, in some of the
Nomadic tribes of Northern Sudan, classes are held by Koranic teachers to



APPENDIX
Page 7
teach children and adults to read and write Arabic and to recite the 'oran.
The teachers are usually members of the tribe who accept whatever their
students can afford to give thejn (usually in kind) for their services.  ,itc
on extent and scope of these activities are not available.
Education Finance
22.       Education is finainced by the Central Government through a system
of transfer to local authorities and to the Southern Regional Government:
(Chart 4).  Funds are channelled, primarily, through the Mlinistry of Educa-
tion and the Ministry of Local Government.  The General Education Administra-
tion pays the salaries of alL nersonnel in technical and vocational seconaary
education and primary teacher training in the Northern provinces while Lhe
iigher Education Administration pays the salaries of all personnel in the
public post-secondary institutions, except the University of lKhartoum, wilich
receives a separate allocation from the Central Government. Other Central
Government 11inistries/Agencies financing education and training are the
Secretarv-General for Religious Affairs and Endowments, the National Researcr.
Council, the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Ministry of Public
Service and Administrative Reform - Department of Labor.
23.       In the Northern provinces, primary, junior secondary and upper
secondary education is financed by the Provincial Councils through subven-
tiolls from the Ministry of Local Government. Since 1965 when the process
of decentralizing education began, tile Ministry of Local Government's pro-
vincial budget for education shows that expenditure has increased by an
annual rate of 19%.  Growth has been particularly rapid since 1969/70 when
the provinces were also made responsible for junior secondary education, and
in 1973/74, when the provinces were given responsibility for channeling funds
to upper secondary schools.
24.       The Southern Region has not yet developed substantial independent
revenue sources. Its revenue comes from direct annual transfer of furnds from
the Central Government and the reimbursement of direct and indirect taxes ori--
ginating in the Southern Region. The Southern Regional Government allocates
a portion of this finance to the Regional Ministry of Education which in
turn allocates a portion to each of three provinces. The Regional Milinistry
of Educatian pays the salaries of all personnel in upper secondary, teclnical
and vocational education and primary teacher training in the Southern Region.
The Provincial Councils are responsible for primary and junior secondary
education. Educational expenditure absorbs substantial portions of the
recurrent budgets of the three provinces.  In 1972/73, the first year of
regional autonomy, the Regiona.l Government and the provinces spent 22.5%o
of their recurrent budget on ecducation, and this is expected to rise to
some 24% in 1973/74.
25.       Although private educational expenditure has grown since 1966,
reaching LSd 3.76 million in 1973, this growth has been ccnsiderably lower
than that of public educational expenditure, so that now private educational



APPENDIX
Page 8
expenditure represents only 0.1% oE GNP, ocmpared to 0.6% in 1966.  This
occurred primarily because, in 1972/73 the Government took over most of
private schools and started paying subsidies to the remainder.
26.       Total Expenditure.  Annex 4 summarizes developments in total
educational expenditure between 1966 and 1973. Educational expenditure at
current prices had increased 10.25,' per annum between 1967 and 1970 and
6.40% between 1970 and 1973. While the increase in monetary terms has been
significant, educational expenditure has remained between 4.5% and 5.2% of
GNP. Further, as a percentage of total Government expenditures, education
expenditure declined from 18.2% in 1966 to 13.2% in 1973.
27.       Recurrent Expenditure absorbed 93-96% of total educational expendi-
ture during the period 1966-1973. By level, primary education took the larg-
est portion of recurrent expenditure (43.4%).  This share is likely to in-
crease if expansion continues at the present rate, and with the return of
refugees to the Southern Region. Higher (26.1%) and academic secondary
(23.9%) education took the next highest shares of recurrent expenditure.
This contrasts markedly with the 2.9% allocated to technical-secondary
education.
28.       About 13% of recurrent expenditure is spent on boarding.  This
figure should decrease, however, as the Government has now begun to reconsid-
er its policy on boarding at the primary and junior secondary levels, and is
encouraging and assisting local authorities to build, through self-help, more
readily accessible schools.
29.       As a result of the high proportion of boarding at all levels of
education (14% in primary school, 49% in junior secondary, 55% in upper
secondary, almost all students in technical, teacher and higher education)
and relatively high teacher salaries, unit recurrent costs (1973) are high
compared to other East African countries.
General       Technical
Primary    Secondary       Secondary
US$
Sudan                           74         254            337
Somalia                         37         131            157
Ethiopia                        37         103            301
These costs have been increasing on an average of 3% per annum in constant
terms. In particular, salaries have shown a tendency over the years to rise
faster than the rate of inflation. However, as boarding costs decrease, and
as mieasures of economy are adopted in the system (such as double shift and
reorganization of technical education), recurrent costs can be expected to
increase at a slower rate (Annex 5).



APPENDIX
Page 9
30.       Capital Expenditure.  The total allocation over the Five-Year
Plan 1970-75 for caDital expenditure on education is approximately LSd 15
nmillion. For fiscal vear 197a/74, a sum of LSd 6.4 million was approveo
for educational capital expenditure. This includes LSd 0.9 million for the
Southern Region and LSd 5.5 million for the Northern provinces.  Between
1966 and 1973, capital expenditure on education have fluctuated between 4;,
to 7% of total educational expenditure (Annex 4). However, according to thie
1973/74 estimates, this ratio should reach 13.6% if there is a 100% rate of
execution of planned developments.  Present execution rate on development
projects is only 45% and it is, ttherefore, unlikely that all the approved
expenditure will result in actual disbursemnents.
31.       These figures do not take into account the number of schools which
woul(d be constructed under self-help in all provinces of the country. As
enrollment increases, and the Government begins to design buildings more
suitable to local environments, utilize more indigenous materials and build
schools through self-help, it is expected that capital costs will remain at
the present percentage (7.4Z) of total educational expenditure.






r000000C-Cnor-00000       0'--    -'nOOn, n'<   C-o<,    Cr--Iwo fl0,C <-no,o00 OCo-ornr-
CCr-OCC0oC-o..oo    '<'no           CC-    0000    OCr-    CC    H-Cr-00000C OC-On-',   -00,10
'ho    OOn.C,10  -"    00    -, 00<    CoO        0000       C-0    0  ,1OCOoo'nCO,',,-n',   CC
0-0:0  OCo   0,100    '00,-   r-C-CC    ,10-       000-0      -    C0       Cr-CC   -00C000
000  C'r- 00',oo...','n    Coo'    n0o'   'no',    -.--     00    oo',-'0:C.n00,'-',o  'nOCOCOC
000' 'C  oCOCO-  0CC-Co  -  OCn-o  000,"-  000<On0.-0CC0o',CC,1,1n,o
00.000 C',r-   ,10-'-..'   -  oo'n.-o  ooo'-   '0 ,'noo  o'oo  0    Ceo-n- 0-CooZooCoC
0  CO*',o   O'or-   .'en00   -nOCo.   "'no',    Coo                CoO00n.ono-  0 0000nn'-n-.-n--o
nnoon'nen'o., HC'n-o                         0      0000 C,'nm'n'n',  n-' C  '0 <nOr-  0'00"
0-  0o0.n. OOn'00.  0      00   00  to    0000  0CooC-o  CC:    0  -. OCIO             '00CC CCI
'nO'','  C  00C0oo,r-  onoo                0000  010: on 'no  C  r-',n--", ',,-OCO-00  CC  00  0
0000000 0l'0'C    0C00C-C   00  000.-        0   0000         C- 00000       0-OCCOC   0Cc
I  00'. Cn--',oo-o   0<  00 floCO,,   'CO   O.-Ce-on.  C  o  0-o00'enoooo'no' 00-00000
0nCoo000 C C'n0o.'oC-o   0               0-C  10,1  n-C  n-On  oo   ceno-fi',  or-C   00o0  C-
onC- 0  '0C-nZ---o    CC00r-    OOloo',1ro',o'n.00'n,000  OCr-C00oofi   ,,00
0-C-   10Cr.  OC'.r-r-  000  0  00:000       COo-  000000    CO   0-00000, - CrnO  r-  00  CO
00'  r'0C<or-  0',.  C  0-. '00000           O000o'1o                  000-00    000'',  C-(O,1'nC
C0000o'n',00',,,1'10   Cr-Co   0000<        0CC   0000   0   CO   00:0000,10000  CC<CoCn-no
- C<'n',nCt',r-. 000   000,0  CC            -n-nC   000,0-      OC  O,1',noooo.'0no,,-o<. 00CC-On-
-no  0-0    O  CC-n   ,1','1   '100,1    -Cr-  -  0-0:    o-o          n   Cr-n  nno  ol-OCO',
O0Co-o,r-0.o-',  O   'C 0000  OC'00        0           <0-   0    C-C-Or-n- 0000:    0:0000
OCEC0'C'nCOO   0  O',oo   o0-  O    00'            on:',',   000  000000  .-- COoCo'  'no
0<000   C  0000   00  C  -'0'<0,1    000    '100-0           C  '10        000   <COO   0000
00 0 C-C  r-'n',n0,10o    C-r-o--  0-n--  00    -  00   oC   o    C    CC', ',-COZ  0<0000010000
'000'no<C-,-00.o C-I-  0.00-n  0000C  0      oc      00,''nC-C'.o,',ooo 0000 CCC   00
I  0000-00-  0  0,1  0  noono          COo    "-00,-'   000         <C1n'C',,1        0,1000
'00',  000  'CC..  0-CC    Coo   o'1n-..    Coo    C'000o     r- r-ooo-,1000   ,1O0OCC'000,
0000000roOO'n C 00                                                             C
C0-o000-0Cofloo                                               '00    0
r-00C0ooor-C-a"COOo.  n',   " C00'nO'0,1n- 0000000000
000 or-0C -00 C Co C' 0
- C',o    000  0    00-00000    .-CC<oOOO
C <oCr--ooa-000r-    0,1 o    ooo                   <no       --00  0-0,0    0-0000000,1   CO
0-nCC0OCO,1o.zro   0-0<0   Co-C  o.   O0r-    Or-CO            n. 000-OC-flOco  000   000CC
0CC-  COO   0'0-0'  C  C'00  nO-no''--"                       0    CO'Cr-0-r-  ,1OOCC-'n0    0
CC    0',10',',  000  'n000000',oon0
00- <flOor       0000   Or-fib        I  ',  0n-<00 C   0       0 OC<',o   CC0000OCO   00
'n$C'0C   on  Cono  "0-C 0  00',  0-   0nr-o  000             --n    00  0-C-COO          -n-no-nI
r-OC','0Cr-on        0-0   0',-fio     CC      Coor-       C-   n-COO   0,-o0Co--0   OC-O-
'',tC-00'n                     CO                        000
000   roC   0-ConO                          r-     000  '0  0000000,0,10',C   C
00   0   '10-C      1-0-C  '100   0    0             C-          nooC-r-ooC 00000' oC
O-nr-CC0oC             0  0 "0,00  0    0                    pC
C  0-'  r- 00  "',      0                                     00'   00:   00,10-0000-   0-Co
C   '1  0  0  ono                                            er-    00.0-0000    '1  0    01-00
no 000; C C
0 0000000101r- 0000:0
O
O             0,    N  0  0<    00  00  00    00  0:    00  00  01  0  20  <-On  0'    nO    00    00    01    00  01    01    00
-.           00    0'    <  0  0  <  -o   r-    no  o     C  C   0  0,    0  0  ,1    00    0  0
C  0  '1  00  C  C  0-0   0  C  C  00  '0  0  0  0"',  0  0  C  00 00 0  00'
000 CCCo 00  000  0 'n 0<                                           Or-OC-> B<n
0,    0  0  C-    C  -  C  0  0    00  C-
-oCt.              0          C  0  r-    00  0  0  0  0,  0  0  on n- 00                    '0             0  0
*                    '1               C      0-     C      '  C  0   0      00        0'    00.  00  0  C
C      0  0          n0                 0                o          0  00     '   0
0,        0'         0                      --           C
00000                                          0                      0             C
000000                   00                    0
0000                                           0
0000-C                                                                                                              __________
0-r-00                                                                                                                   -0
OOn-r-             '1-'1'10ooon 00 00000   '<'100 00C000000000    00
00-0-            00  000100100100   00 '0  0  r-  00 10    a  01 00  00 00 00 01  00 00 00  00 00                     0
0                                                                                                                   0
CC                                                                                                                    00 '1
Cnn                                                                                                                   20  0
00                           00      H                 00   0,               00            01                0       r-
00               '0  0: 10 00 10  0  <0  00  0- 00  00  0   10 00,  000-01   00 0: 00010010-0   00                     -
0-00             0  00  00 00  000.000000.'   or-    10 00 01  00 0- 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 0    00 00 00
non                                                                                                                 "  o  0,1
o                    on  0'     '1                       00     0,                            C  0,
0                                                                                                                      C  C
00        010000001                 00 00  00 000   0C0-0   0  00 00 10 00 00           0-Coo,-
0-    01  0-    0- 01    r-   01000010000   00    0,0                     0  0- 0.0     COo   00
1                           l000010020  0000000r-CCCO
'100000-000000                                                                                                                 00             00  0
010-0000000000                                                                                                                '10  0000
01               .-             -              0-           0-  0- 0- 00    01              0   .nCnO'0  0000    00  0
'1  00 10 00 0  00  00 01 10  0, 01  0   00 01  C  00 00 "  00 01  0- 00  0001000000-0<
0'1                                          ,'n   00                   U.   0        00         00                    -0
00                                                                                                                       00
00           - "'-"-"'____ - - -       ""'-'00'-""                  -      - -                 ________
10    0  00    0  00    00    10'   -  01    00    0  0  00    0  00  Co   00    00    00    0  01   00    00    00    0    00  -.00
- - -.00-000000
-,100'100000000          00 '4  00  01 00  01     '  00  00 '1  01   00000000001001'  00 00 0  00  000    00<0-0-nrC                              H
O  Onnoolo   00              10     01                   01   00   004  10                00     '1         00                                    00
00100, <00 000 00
'nO 0 C-C 0000
'00-0-0-00-0
000000000.0                                                           0-    01  -  0101  01010-01100-010110                   00,10<0
000-  00,  0,               o-010100r-00             0- 10  00
00...................00000000
C    0,0    0             00  0  00  0  00  '1100000                  0' '0 00  -o 00 00  000000010   00  00 00  000000-0-H
0000<,10, 00
nO:  000  0                                                   00                              .00 00        00                00  COo
'n000  10  C                 00   .00                 00 00
:00,1    :  C
000 00000                                                                                                                          00
C-   0                  0000-                                                                                                   0<
IC-                                                                                     100000001100-  o00000
C-C  'C                on                               10  CC  00         Co  <0                       0
On--                              00                                                                                          0
00    00  00    0  10    0                                                  lo              00000-0
10 00 10010000001'0oO   0001',0000000-000000 00 00' 10  0<000
0  0- 0                         000,00    00001000   00 00 00  00 00 00 10  00 00 10  .r-C'n001
00000CC
00 o,1
00                       '                                                                                            00
0                                                                                                                     000
C                                                                                                                   IC',  '0
C            0-                           0-              0- 0       00     -         0-    0-                  .-00'nCo
-.           10 00 10  00 01    0000001000    010110   00  00  00 00 00  0  0  00  C' 00 00   000000-0
0100  01                    00                    0<                     00                              00              0000
Co  o                                                                                                                      000
CC  00                                                                                                                   00 0-0:
a-  '-               10    0-  C            00    00      0-          0-                          0-      001010    0000000-CC
a                                                                                                                     0000  0-C-
0000. 0 00 00
1000  C.                                                                                                                 C  0
CC 01 _______________________________________________________
CCC 00
0-0-              0-0-01101001100-100100010010000100100-0-010001010  00000-000000
001'              '100                      0:00    0,010000000    01010   00  0: 0  00  0- 00 00 0-  r-C0-OnCC.C
on 001000CC-
00 00.-n",00                                                                                                             00
C-IOn  C   01                                                                                                           00    00    00
000  C-C                                                                                                                 C  00  0
000CC                  0-    0-          00 0- 0-           00'     01 00 00        0  '  0-    0- .  .  .               n.-0000-Cn-'.
'1000  0-n"  q010000                     C- 00000<0  000    Con-C.                         1000  .'oMC0OCnOO
C      O0-C   C                                                                                                                  0-CC
00     CCC'0                                                                                                                                           CC
00   00:                                                                                                                        On
000  00                                                                                                                  0    000
10 00                                  10                          00                .  0- .       .  .  '              Cr-  0000>
00          C'-'           10 0- 0- 0  .   0010100000                00   0  00    00  00  0:'  0  -  00        .  .  0  00   'CO  0000
0        '1                                                              00     .  00  0          00                           0-0-.'n0000
10       C                    0-         '   '          00 00                          00                                      0000:000-000
0                                   0:                                                                               -000  0-00o0-
00                                                                                                                      -o   CC-
000
00



I                        I



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Post Secondary Institutions, 1973
Universities & Colleges       Enroll-        Diploma Level Institutes   Enroll-        Certificate Level Institute   Enroll-
(4-6 Years)                    ment          (3 Years)                   ment          (2 Years)                        ment
Khartoum University            5,8ll         Inst. of land Surveying       92          Forest Rangers Institute          18
Cairo University                             Inst. of Textile & Print.    h7           Communications Institute         150
(Khartoum Branch) 1/522
Islami  Univof dumaInst. of Laboratory Techs.    80         Police Officers Ints.            200
Islamic Univ. of Omdurman 2-    500
Inst. of Secretariat          66          Post & Telegraph Inst.           250
Agfad University                 120
Inst. of Mechanical Engg.                 Leather Institute                 22
Khartoum Polytechnic             169         & Electrical Tech.            61
X-Ray Institute                   50
College of ,urveying              80         Inst. of Civil Engineering    68
Meteorological Institute         150
College of Commercial                        Inst. of Mechanical Engg.    42
& Financial Studies              214                                                   Health Institute                  60
Shambat Inst. of Agric.      362
Higher Tech. Teachers Col.        83                                                   Prison Officers Training
School of Hygiene             40          School                            50
Higher Teacher Trng. Col.        360
Khartoum Nursing College      65          Secretarial Institute             45
Higher Physical Education
Teachers College                 168         Intermediate Teacher
Training Institute           650
College of Fine Arts             152
Music & Theater Inst.        115
I  Inst. of Vet. Science        120        _
Total          13,179                                      1,808                                           995
1/ Private universities.
Source: Ministry of Education, November 1973



DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TLE SUDAN
Actual and Proiected Enrollm nts and Teacher Rceuirements
(Public Educatior - in Thousands)
1970                           1973                            1977                            1980                           1985
Teacher                        Teacher                         Teacher                         Teacher                         Teacher
Enroll-    Pupil     Total    Enroll-    Pupil       Total    Enroll-    Pupil       Total    Enroll-    Pupil       Total    Enroll-    Pupil       Total
Level and Type                ments      Ratio    Teachers  ments       Ratio    Teachers   ments        Ratio    Teachers  ments       Ratio    Teachers  ments        Ratio    Teachers
A. PRIMARY LEVEL                      805.60     1:48       16.60   1082.00      1:45      24.00    1220.00      1:43       28.40   1587.00      1:43      36.90   2060.50       1:43      47.90
Enrollments as % of Age Group          36.4o                          38.00                           40.00                          145.00                           50-.00
B. JUNIOR SECONDARY LEVEL             118.80     1:22        3.50    135-00      1:21       6.40     155-80      1:25        6.20    221.80      1:35       6.34    316.70      1:35        9.05
Enrollments as % of Age Group           7.50                          11.00                           12.00                           15.00                           18.00O
C. UPPER SECONDARY LEVEL               28.95     1:13        2.25     56.00      1:19       2.90       60.00     1:19        3.13     71.50      1:19       3.76      81.50      1:19       4.37
(i) Academic Course              25.20     1:17        1.50     43.00     1:22        1.70      43.00      1:22       2.00      47.00     1:22        2.13     48.90      1:22        2.2
(ii) Tech. & Voc. Courses          2.75     1:5         0.52      5.00     1:13        0.40        8.00     1:15       c.53      15-50     1:15        1.03      23.60     1:15        1.57
Oiii)  Tcachcr         Course       1.00     i:4         1.23      0.00      1:10       0.80       9.00      1:15        0.60      9.00      1:15         .60      9.00     1:15         .60
Enrollments as % of Age GrouP           2.70                            5.00                            5.00                            5.80                           5.50
D. POST SECONDARY LEVEL                 5.77      1:9        0.63       9.96     1:8         1.28       9.77     1:12        0.79      12.45     1:12        1.00     12.75      1:13        1.02
(i) University of Khartoum        4.03     1:13        0.36      6.o       1:10       0 .60      6.o       1:12       0.50       6.oo     1:12        0.S0       6.oo     1:12        0-50
(ii) Agricultural Colleges         0.20     1:6         0.03      0.36      1:9        0.04       0.56      1:12        0.05      0.96      1:12       0.08       0.96      1:12       0.08
(iii) Technical Institutes          0.75     1:7         0.11      0.50      1:7        0.07       o.60      1:10        o.o6      1.20      1:12       0.10       1.20     1:11        0.10
(iv) Higher Teacher Training       0.41     1:6         0.07      0.50      1:6        0.o8        o.60     1:12        0.05      0.90      1:12       0.08       0.90      1:12       0.08
(v) Intermediate Teach.Trng.      0.30     1:8         0.04      0.60      1:8        0.08       o.95      1:15        0.06      1.50      1:15       0.10       1.50     1:15        0.10
(vi) Nursing College               0.08     1:5         0.02      0.10      1:5        0.02        o.06     1:6         0.01      0.10      1:5        0.02       0.10      1:5        0.02
(vii) Natural Resources Col.        -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -         0.24      1:12        0.02      0.24      1:12       0.02
(viii) Other Post Sec. Insts.        n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       1.90     1:5         0.39       1.00     1:15        0.06      1.05      1:15        0.10  _1.85         1:15        0.12
(Population data for age 19-21
not available)  TOTAL ENROLLMENTS   959.12                  22.98   1282.96                34.58   1445.57                 38.52   1891.75                 48.00  2P471.45                 62.34
Source: Ministry of Education and Rank Group staff estimates, November 1973



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Expenditure on E'ducation. 1966-1973
(In Million Sudanese Pounds)
Rate of Increase p.a., %
1966-67 to     1969-70 to
It em                            1966-67         1969-70         1972-73         1969-70         1972-73
Total Public Expenditure                      118.7          141.10          255.oo            6.30           26.70
Total Public Education Expenditure             21.64          28.30           33.73           10.25            6.39
Capital Expenditure                        0.88           1.67            2.51           29.92           16.76
Recurrent Expenditure                     20.76          26.63           31.22            9.42            5-74
Education Capital Expenditure
as % of Total Public
Education Expenditure                      4.07           5.90            7.44
Education Recurrent
Expenditure as % of Total
Public Education Expenditure              95.93          94.10           92.55
Total Public Education Expenditure
as % of Total Fublic Expenditure          18.23          19.98           13.22
Total Public Education Expenditure
as % of GDP                                5.20           4.90            4.50
Source:  Ministry of Education, November 1973



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Past and Pro.jected Expenditures on Education and Training
(Millions of b Sudanese at 1973 Prices)
1973-1985
Annual
Recurrent Expenditure                            Average
Capital
Level                    '   1970           1973    '    1975    '    1980    '    1985    t Expenditure
Primary                               11.80          13.8         19.8          26.7          36.9          2.45
Junior Secondary                                                  11.6          16.8          25.2          1.26
Upper Secondary                        6.10           7.5          4.6           5.2           5.7         0.09
Technieal & Technical Training         1.30           1.6          2.5           3.8           5.3          o.65
University Higher Institute            7.o4           7.8           7.0          9.1           9.9          0.14
Other                                  0.39           0 5
TOTAL              26.63          31.2          45.5         61.6          83.0          4.59
as a % of GDP                          5.1%          4.5%         6.o%          6.5%          6.7%
Public recurrent expenditure
on Education as a % of total        18.9%         13.3%        19.5%         18.9%         18.1%
public recurrent expenditure
Source:  Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of enrollment and teacher requirements projections of Annex 3.
The projection assumes, conservatively but on the basis of discernible short run trends that present
unit costs would increase by 1% - 2% p.a. in constant terms to account for the improvements in
pupil:teacher ratio, less boarding, the use of the double shift system, and more emphasis on practical
training.  Projection beyond 1980 must be regarded as approximate orders of magnitude only.
November 1973



ANNEX 6
SUDAN II
Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
LSd (Millions)           Us$ (Millions)        % of
Base
Local  Foren  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
Civil Works                    1.65    1.19    2.84    4.13    2.99    7.12    75%
Furniture                      0.0     0.09    0.13    0.10    0.23    0.33       4%
Instructional Equipment        0.01    0.16    0.17    0.05    0.39    0.44       5%
Technical Assistance           0.12    0.25    0.37    0.28    0.64    0.92    10%
Professional Services          0.12    o.o8    0.20    0.30    0.20    0.50       5%
Project Administration         0.01    0.03    0.04    0.04    0.07    0.11       1%
Base Cost                   1.95    1.80    3.75    4.90    4.52    9.42   100%
Contingencies:
Physical (9% of Base Cost) 0.19    0.16    0.35    0.48    0.40    o.88
Price (77% of Base Cost
+ Physical)          1-74    1-45    319    4.36    3.65    8.01
Sub-total                   1.93    1.61    3.54    4.84    4.05    8.89
Total                       3.88    3.41    7.29    9.74    8.57   18.31
FRG Contribution                 -     0.24    0.24        -      o.60    O60
PROJECT TOTAL                  3.88    3.65    73 9               1          18.91 ?/
1/ Equipment for vocational training center contributed by the Federal Republic
of Germany.
2/ Includes taxes estimated at US$1.9 million.






SUDOO - t30CAT10N ll
1 10  P 0AN2.7
mll- -l                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T. T~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 1    td 055.
10 t    Ap 0..0 ......tr                        3,003       9r ,170                  91,7000       306,000           -        152,500      45t,500        OsrOoc          10.360                     9.0150       27,510         2000597,710                                                                      597.710      0.60         1.50
00 Tot,,.    er.oOo                             9,000    9,00        17,510          110.040        034.400         -          060.000   01.40           1,210  4         33,00                     10470         49,30           cor.9900                                                                      1,314,070      1.30         0.35
0.  Otri-St-tcodoy School   A 0600            -          00        15         1,504          23,024         56,040        u.So0        3t,4t0     125,120         130,144          5,00          0S          2lt-          7,500          7,000           164,651                                                        164,651      0.16          0.41
3.  lootr  -ooooc  tlto  - Otei1              -           5        t-         5,560          20,500         0.656         03,120       32,030     112,60t         -3,106           2,000         1,007       1,57         bO              7,W0            14t,tt7                                                         148,887     0.13          0.30
0,  Jolrtcoeyttol-t,OO                        -          300       300        0,142          45,043         94,460        69,050       troor.    010,21           271,400          3,9           4,070       3,712        13,530         16,000           001,042                                                         901,041      0.30         0.76
460         160       640        2,6r1          37.598         70,304        70,644       3r,744      1t7,Ot         205,590          4,436         4,437       2,385        f1280          65,00                ,87                         301,070Or                             0o    0.30          0.7t
9.  Woo Oocooo,.crl OOoO.,tco Cootoc  060  00        360       34002          40,989         1360.00       79,400       2tr7t       044,044         293,900          0,6            ,060       1,763        14,600            -              rO.o                                                            0.0          .100
T-7.           - - 3elocleoooe-                        -         -            -                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7072-                                          -orl        0.507        0",
StO-totol                ~~~~      ~~~640  012,-  0.400   00,0963        381.000        ,440,S44      202,-O.       719,140   2.455,1St      2.3,91,            713,01        1071,50    307.036       -0,S4         1735,000         0.S04.6         000,720          000.00           43,825       3.754.313       3.03         9.42
10.  Oottiteeootee  -  -        -           -           410.000             -            .            -      2.000,000      2.000,004            -             -                      00,000       reollO            0,140,000       160,000          020,000   1      2000.000     3,340,000      3.54          0.0000  3,54,000  354  8.8
color                   t~~~~~~~~~r  4~~12000   11.600  18OtO          791,106             -                                5 ,0S5m,00     0,0~706,90 6         -             .           -          1,034        lrt,-o            o,ool,700       3001,7'         320,000           60,023       7,204,013      0.09         00.30
olodocT TOTAL                      640       ro 040   00,600       40t66          700,616                                              5 385,788      596.0                                                    210,8s4       so4,o0o           6,621,760       5,02,729        500.03            60.0-        7 5339313       7.50        1t.S1 






SUDAN1 - EDUCATION II
(US) NOD e)                                                                                                           ANNEX 8
Year                      1                            23                                                        456                                                                                     7
Tnpleneatntina Schedule .--                                           1          -       -      -- --                        - --          --                                                                      
Qures   1      2      3       4      5      6      7       8      9     10      II     12     13     14      15     16     17     16      19     20     21      22     23     24      25     26      27     26,~
Integrated RuralI Ednen.tian
Training Centers
II      15                                                     46      44    f        14-    5      n       a      e      n      i      a       n     ea     nl na          ae      cs     nn     fn     ec       n      --     --
Nahkt- Rxda Teacher Training  Inst.                   54     *-A    *A      fi     4+7     ve 00        ae f5           n      A      a      aa a'$xx es nn an                          fn     vvv vn         --      e
Vea-ti-s1 Training C-nea                                                                                                                                                        ...xx fn 4A  --    o  0  0  n  n  n os~s  i  o  n  a  e  eo..v.--v-vn
Ministry fi Edin..tine
N. Na-a  Edneotian npeet.   (36 n/)3                                                          3       3      3      3      3      3      3       3      3       3      3
2. Ferre  Coop. SPe-'t.            (36 nn                                                  3      3      3       3      3         3      3       3      3       3      3
3. Ed-rtineFi P1A-10
C_  'Jt-O                      524am)                                                      6       6      6
Behktr-r-Rnd.    TxeerTrirn
1. C-rvtrlo   Cc.-  Npe-t.    (24 n/)3                                                                                                                  3      3       3      3      3      3       3
2. ERol Eda..atiex Sport.    (24 a/)3                                                                                                                   3      3      3       3      3      3       3
Higihr Techni-e  Teaher T-eline
N. Edo...ti-na  Sp-ACalicE         (36 n/)9                                            9       9      9
Bahkt-r-Roda  fore.See Tr-inio
Institate -
1. lneioiA     ...vriepn-r        (24 n/)2                                             3      3      3   I3         3      3      3      1
2. Te-hing 'id. A Mat-ieNs (24 ol)2                                                    3       3      3      3      3       3     3      1
3. Enrol Teneh-  Edecotion    (24   e)2                                                3       3      3      3      3       3     3 
Pref-se.n.oI S-erire
Mtinitr   of  -e -telian S& Poblia Warts
1. Ar-hitert                      (12  ea                                3      3       3      3
2. Strrtia...l engineer            (24 n/)3                                     3      3       3      3      3      3      3
S. M-rhxiral Engies.er            (12 nt/n)                              3               
4. Quxtityl  raoY-                 (24 /)3                                      2      3       3      3      3      3      3
Project Adnieistration
P-ajeet UTple....ation. Unit
1. P--o -net spenioliet            (24e/)                                       3      3      3      3       3      3      3      3
2. Quatity Sor..y. Y-              (24 xe/n)                                                                        3            3  3           3       3      3      3
Lrgeed:   6   Nnl-ri-  and  -enys ad Altc                                                   T.ader Period                                                         a C-tn-rti-e  Mr eofoat-igg Phese
*   -rign  red Tant   -rtix    .o.aen   Stage                                 R lein  ai aids aed R-nexardxxio-a  A-eda                                  Werraxty Pe-ind
   ReView of Design and Ce...t-rtion D-eooeto                              a   Tet-x- Awad and Mabilisatiex                                               Delivey ei F-riture end Nqxiprnt
!Starting at date af ar-dintrarlea






ANNEX 9
SUDAN II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Thousand)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter            Disbursement           Disbursement              Balance
1                    -                       -                   10,000
2                    -                       -                   10,000
3                    -                       -                   10,000
4                    -                       -                   10,000
5                    45                       45                  9.955
6                    50                       95                  9,905
7                    85                      180                  9,820
8                   100                      280                  9,720
9                   160                      440                  9,560
10                   215                      655                  9s345
11                   280                      935                  9,o65
12                   350                    1,285                  8,715
13                   580                    1,865                  8,135
14                   860                    2,725                  7,275
15                   790                    3,515                  6,485
16                   790                    4,305                  5,695
17                   770                    5,075                  4,925
18                   740                    5,815                  4,185
19                   640                    6,455                  3,545
20                   625                    7,080                  2,920
21                   620                    7,700                  2,300
22                   580                    8,280                  1,720
23                   520                    8,800                  1,200
24                   470                    9,270                    730
25                   410                    9,680                    320
26                   255                    9,935                     65
27                    50                    9,985                     15
28                    15                   10,000
2 Starting from date of credit effectiveness.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
ENROLLMENT PYRAMID, 1973
Total Enrollment and
Ratio to Age Group              1/
Both Sexes    Post Secondary -                                                      15,982
16
15
15,982        r
14
l12
Upper Secondary
12                                                  14185 2/            4,669! 
55,9325 g     11                                                    14,170   E        4506
5%?! 
10
L%l    10                                            ,14,052  . V        4343
Junior Secondary
II1:9   1                                                        9         X:2    ),10993
135,387                                                             $  .'*S.'02           11418
11%           [7                                                      :  ,189          13,536 .  1 536
Primary
0 06                   *                                                  45,688
l r5                                                                      52,109
4                                                                          55,929
1,081,992                                         r63398
3                                                                          63,398::s.::::..x<~.
l .2                                9                                      69,892
1                               ..                                         73'975
140     120      100       80       60       40       20        0       20       40       60       80      100      120      140
BOYS                                                                   GIRLS
1/ Grade and male/female breakdown not available;
561 students beyond the 16th grade
Z Includes teacher trainees and technical students in fourth year
i/Estimate based on population projections, Ministry of Education
Source: IBRD staff based on Ministry of Education statistics, August, 1973                                                                               World Bank-8120(2R)          _



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1973
AGE    7          8       9        10       11        12       13       14        15            16       17       18            19        20        21       22        23       24
I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I                      I    ~~~ ~~~~~~~I    I           I   I              I         I        I
GRADE  1           2       3         4        5        6         7        8        9             10       11        12            13       14        15       16        17       18
Primary Education                                        Secondary Education                                              Higher Education
University-
Higher Technical Institute 4-
5/
Higher Teacher Training Institute
JLunior Secondary               Upper Secondary            Intermediate Teacher 6
Primary School                                   School                           School                  Training Institute
1
Technical Secondary Schlool -
o  Selection Point
1/ Commercial, Agricultural and Technical                                              Teacher Training Secondary School-
2/ For Primary School Teachers                                                          _    A _          a_             _
3/ Undergraduate Studies, 3to6 years (details
are shown in Annex -).
4/ Courses Range from 2to4 years (details are
shown in Annex 2).
5/ For Upper Secondary School Teachers
6/ For Junior Secondary School Teachers
Source: IBRD staff on the basis of Ministry of Education data, 1973.                                                                                    World Bank-8121 (R)



SUDAN
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MINISTERIAL COUNCIL FOR
HUMAN RESOURCES
CHAIRMAN: THE PRESIDENT
THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION ...............{NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR
SOUTHERN REGIONAL
MINISTER aO- EDUCAIIUN                                                                                E
THE MINISTER OF STATE    ...............    COUNCIL FOR PLANNING,
FOR GENERAL EDUCATION'            COORDINATION AND
REGIONAL                                             lFOLLOW UP
CH EF      nl DIRCTOR       RESEARCH_ 
UNIT    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~fCOUNCIL FOR PLANNING AND
ADVISOR   OF EDUCATION  UNIT                    UNDER SECRETARY        ..........COORDINATION WITH
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                          LOCAL GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENTAL COUNCIL                DIRECTOR GENERAL                                                                  DIRECTOR GENERAL              fDEPARTMENTAL COUNCIL
FOR                               FOR                                                                               FOR                                 FOR
GENERAL EDUCATION    )             GENERAL EDUCATION                                                                  HIGHER EDUCATION                    HIGHER EDUCATION
ASST. DIRECTOR        ASST. DIRECTOR         ASST. DIRECTOR          ASST. DIRECTOR            ASST. DIRECTOR           T. DIRECTOR       EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
GENERAL FORGENERAL FORGEEAFOGEELFRGNRLFRAS
GENERAL FOR    TEACHER TRAINING          GNRLFREEALOREEALORGENERAL FOR                                                                     FOR
ADMINISTRATIVE        CURRICULUM AND          ACADEMIC AND           PLANNING AND             CULTURAL AND          ADMINISTRATION        HIGHER EDUCATION
AFFAIRS              INSPECTION          TECH. EDUCATION            RESEARCH            EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Source: Ministry of Education, 1973                                                                                                               World Bank - 8818



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
SYSTEM OF FINANCING EDUCATION
SOUTHERN REGIO GonVERNMEN T,                                                                                                          CENTRAL GOVENMN
l j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EiDUCATION                                                                      ||LOCAL GOVERNMENT|
MINISTRY OF_ 
EDUCATION _l
SOUTHERN REGION
UPPER SECONDARY        .                                                                                                                                                         COUN
TECHNICAL AND             PROVINCIAL COUNCILS           SECRETARY-GENERAL                                                                                              P    R     OUN
VOCATIONAL                EQUATORIA                    FOR RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS                                     HIGHER EDUCATION           GENERAL EDUCATION         RED SEA, KASSALA,
PRIMARY TEACHER          UPPER NILE                           AND                       KHARTOUM                 ADMINISTRATION               ADMINISTRATION          NORTHERN,KHARTOUM,
TRAINING                 BAHR-EL-GHAZAL                    EDWET                                                                                                       LENL
PRIMARY                       NATIONAL                                              ALL EDUCATION ABOVE          ALL EDUCATION UP TO          PRIMARY
JUNIOR SECONoARY              RESEARCH                                               UPPER SEC. LEVEL              UPPER SEC. LEVEL           JUNIOR SECONDARY
1. ENROLMENT AND            1. ENROLMENT AND             UPPER SECONDARY
MINISTRY OF CULTURE                                      CURRICULUM POLICY           CURRICULUM POLICY
AND INFORMATION                                       2. HIGHER INSTITUTES         2. PRIMARY TEACHER
3. HIGHER TEACHER             TRAINING
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC                                        TRAINING                  3. TECHNICAL AND
SEFORVICE ANDADMIN.4. ISLAMIC                                                         VOCATIONAL
LABOR DEPT.                                               UNIVERSITY                4. EQUIPMENT AND
5. TECHNICAL ANO              SUPPLIES (PRIM.
VOCATIONAL                  J.S., UPPER SEC.)
World Ba.k-8516    4zC






o          I'
a                                     tt~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
z    &  0
'ID                 ~~Z
40'~~~~~~
fiv,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$
YN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    $A
5!    7!                     (Z:
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ...
.. . .. . .
52~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



