FILE-COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No.P-1495a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 25, 1975
|This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (MSd)
Official Exchange Rate
US$1  = LSd 0.348
LSd 1 = US$2.872
Piasters (Pt) 100 - LSd 1.00
Effective Exchange Rate
US$1  = LSd 0.398
LSd 1  = US$2.50
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 - June 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ATD RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPCSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equivalent of $10
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to expand education facili-
ties in the rural areas of Sudan.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission fraa the Bank visited the Sudan in November/December
1971 and its report entitled "The Economic Development and Prospects of the Sudan"
(Report No. AE-27, in four volumes, dated June 9, 1972) was distributed on June 30,
1972 (R72-179). This was the first full economic mission to the Sudan after a
lapse of several years but, owing to continued political unrest in the southern
part of the country at that time, the mission's caverage was limited to Northern
Sudan. TIn March 1972, the Government reached an agreement (The Addis Ababa Accord)
with the southern dissident elements, as a result of which peace returned to the
South and a Southern Regional Government with a large measure of autonomy was
established in Juba. At that time, the Bank was requested to assist in the recon-
struction and development of the Southern Region, which had suffered much physical
destruction during the prolonged strife.  A special economic mission visited the
Region in November/December 1972, and its report on development problems and
prospects in the Region was distributed on June 25, 1973 (R73-159) (Report No. ll9a-
SU3, dated June 1, 1973). Country data are attached as Anniex I.  Recently Bank
staff have participated in the ILO World Employment Mission to Sudan and it is
expected that this work will bring our knowledge of the Sudanese economy up-to-date
and provide new insights into the problems facing it. The maission's report will
be available in mid-1975.
3.        The Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa. Although a large part of the country cansists of desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan has a great untapped potential for agricultural develop-
ment. About one-third (200 million feddans or 87 million hectares) of the total
land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only a small fraction
of this land is presently utilized. In addition, the White Nile and the Blue
Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled the country to develop the
largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The Sudan has increased its use
of the Nile water to over half of that allocated to Sudan under the Nile Waters
Agreement with Egypt, but there remains room for a considerable further expansion
in irrigation in arid areas of the country. The proximity of Sudan to markets in
the Middle East and Europe places it in an excellent position fbr agricultural
exports, and oil producing Arab countries have increasingly come to consider
Sudan as its primary future source of agricultural products.



-2-
h.        According to the most recent estimates of population the population
of the Sudan is about 17 million people, and has been growing at a rate of
over 2.5 percent a year during the 1960s. Much of the land is unoccupied or
very sparsely populated, and in corntrast to many developing countries, there
is no population pressure on presently developed land. Indeed, in some parts
of Sudan, a shortage of labor in combination with hard soils may dictate mechan-
ized techniques of agricultural production.
5.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is a poor
country. GNP is estimated at US$125 per capita, and the country is included
among the U4's twenty-five Least Developed Countries.   The economy is heavily
dependent on cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land, and
also expo-rts gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing resources
have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and, apart
from the processing of some agricultural commodities, it is limited to the produc-
tion of consumer goods and building materials. There is some potential for mining--
chrome, iron ore, asbestos and copper. There have been some exports of chrome
ore and the feasibility of developing the other deposits is receiving attention.
The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese economy.   It embraces
all modern irrigation facilities, the railways and virtually all power and water
supply. After the nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion
of industry, commerce arid finance was also transferred to the public sector.
Although same industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector,
about half of the GDP is stil] generated within the public sector.
6.        The Sudan's economic development has been disappointirng in recent years.
During the period 1965-72, the Sudanese economy was characterized by slow growth,
bordering on stagnation, It suffered from a declining level of investment--
private and public--a marked decline in external aid, rapid monetary expansion,
and inflationary price increases.  This unsatisfactory perfornance was partly
caused by the preoccupation of the Government with acute political problems,
particularly the disturbances in the South which divided the country and repre-
sented a serious drain on resources. With this problem settled, the Government
has been able to give more attention to its economic policy, and as a result
greater emphasis is now given to development.   In seeking to re-establish the
momentum. of development in the economy to utilize Sudan's unique potential, the
Government is faced with two major problems. The first is to step up the volume
of investment from its recent low level, in both the public and private sectors.
The secInd ds to overcome the major physical constraints, particularly the inade-
quacry of the transport system, which is presently strangling the growth of the
economy.
7.        While total investment in the Sudan was stationary during the period
1967-73, the current development plan provides for an ambitious investment program.
jn increase of about 40% was achieved in 1973/74 and a further considerable
increase is budgetted for 1974/75. To raise the level of investment significantly
will require an improved capacity in planning and project identification.   The
Fank is exec-ting a project financed by the UNDP to strengthen the relatively
coraplex central planning orgaizationi which already exists.  The Bank has also
sent a mission to review the statistical system of the Sudan and has made recom-
rmendations for improvements. The Government itself is now considering a reorgasni-
zation of its planning system.  These steps should result in improvements in the
planning and evaluation functions in the mediunm term.
8.        In planning its investment program for the longer term, the Sudan faces
dlifficalL balancing choices~ It must emphasize expansion of production in the
niodern agri,rc -tural sector with a view to expanding export  eariLngs0  This will
imuply exT,nnsion arnd improvement of -rrigated farming which is higl-l3r capital



-3-
intensive but high yielding, and mechanized dry-land farming which directly
benefits only small numbers of people. It must also promote agriculture in
the poorer parts of the country, which would yield much less for export and
require less investment,but would benefit much larger numbers of the poorest
people and lead to a better regional balance in incomes. Another choice will
concern the extent of mechanization so as to encourage employment, in a situation
where undoubtedly a labor surplus exists. However, investment in the home areas
of itinerant labor could soon reduce labor surpluses. Other questions concern
the incentive structure in the economy on which the recent ILO mission will have
recommendations to make, the extent to which industrial expansion should be encour-
aged, and the extent to which expansion of transportation facilities in advance
of demand is justified for reasons of cohesive development.
9.        A major challernge for the Government will be to mobilize domestic and
external resources to finance a higher level of development expenditure. At
present, public savings are not adequate to finance even half of the projected
level of development expenditure. The IMF has had a series of stand-by arrange-
ments with the Sudan and in both the IMF's consultations and the Bank's discussions
with the Government, specific recommendations have been made regarding budgetary
and fiscal measures needed to improve the financial situation. The tax burden is
relatively high, and the most urgent measures are curtailment of current expendi-
ture and a movement towards increased financial viability of public corporations.
These measures can only be effective over time, and the level of public sector
investment in the Sudan aver the next few years will be, to a great extent, a
function of the inflow of external assistance.
10       In this connection Sudan's association with the Arab oil-exporting
nations may well be the key. The expectation is that Sudan may be able to meet
the food import requirements of many of these countries. A number of them,
through the medium of the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development, are
considering very large investment plans in the agricultural sector and in infra-
structure required to facilitate agricultural expansion.  In addition bilateral
lending is likely to continue frcat individual Arab countries. If this capital
inflow develops on a substantial scale it will remove one of the major current
restraints or the level of investment and help overcome Sudan's needs for foreign
exchange until its earnirgs of foreign exchange from exports can rise.  However,
- rapidly increasing inflow of extern-l capital will require improved capability
to plan and implement projects, and the need for a continued firm hand on the
govermnerrt.'s finances will be even more acute if Sudan is not to be cushioned by
the capital inflow into levels of public recurrent expenditure which are not
sustainable in the longer term.
11.       The inadequacy of the transportation system is undoubtedly the most
serious in1lflediate bottleneck to the development of industry, mining, agricultural
processing and the economy in general.  Transport in the Sudan still depends pri-
marily upon the railways, with a total route length of about 4,750km. The rail-
way has played a crucial role in the country's development from a subsistence economy
by carrying the country's steadily rising imports and exports. However, under
the pressure of growing traffic and inadequate utilization of the present stock
of locomotives and rolling stock, railway capacity is severely strained. Major
capital expenditure is under way, with IDA participation, to improve the rail-
ways' carrying capacity, and further large investment is required. There are only
300 km. of paved roads outside municipal limits, the remaining roads being poor
sand and gravel tracks. A considerable investment program in new roads and for
improved maintenance of existing roads has been initiated, and studies for further
roads are being undertaken. Nile River transport could play a more important role
than at present, as could domestic air transport on account of the large distances



-4
within the country. Considerable investment in both modes is planned.     An oil
pipe:Linre from Eort Sudan to Khartoum is under construction.
12.       Comapared with most other countries in Africa, the Sudan as a whole is
cuite wTell provided with trained manpower.  This is attributable in part to the
fact that the educational system has evolved over a longer period. A feature of
tuhe systeia is that although the number of children in elementary and secondary
schools is still small in relation to their total age group, a high proportion
progresses to Aniversities and other institutions of higher learning; enrollment
in these institutions has increased rapidly.   There has been a growing problem
in absorbinv sone of the output of the educational system, particularly, university
graduates with general arts degrees. In the recent past, the Government has been
prepared, as a matter of policy, to hire all university graduates needing jobs,
but t;his clearly entails considerable waste.  There is an urgent need to proceed
with the reorientation of the educational system to make it more responsive to the
current demands of economic development. The Government is planning an education
sector stud-y, which trill derive considerable assistance from the finds of the IL0
Dvaploy.ment Tirssion.
13.       Given the huge requirements for public sector investment in the immediate
future, the role of the private sector in promoting growth is recognized to be
very inrportar:..  Although the public sector plays a major role in the economy,
historically the atti-ude towards private investment has at most times been favor-
able.  The decline in private activity since 1965 was mainly due to the unstable
political environmaent and the uncertainty generated by the nationalization and
confiscc1oo-jT rmeasures of 1970 and 1971.  The Government has taken steps to settle
compensax.aon claims, has returned some confiscated property and has enacted legisla-
tion rjrov-ldJnrg inLcentives and guarantees for private enterprises, both foreign and
domestic. There are inndications of an improved level of investment in the private
sector, a,nd o, `-nterest on the part of foreign investors.
iL. I;.renlty, Sudaan faces a difficult balance of payments situation partly
as a reslLLt c? a deterioration in the terms of trade.  The increase in oil prices
is expect-ed to treble the oil import bill from about US$22 million in 1973 to about
r    J  -or in 19%5. There is very little room for reduction in the use of oil
OrodQc    wt - Lc is a;iready tightly constrained, but additional taxes were never-
theless s1a'c;c in an at-tempt to contain imports.  The food import bill rose by
Li0 f ror~; 'L  tc 1'73 and, on the basis of nine months figures, a further increase
_ccurrecd i7_ l7K  The principal cause was the increased cost of sugar and wheat.
'L maaor -;-rsi 'i oemestic production of both these commodities is under way,
- -i i  an remove this drain on foreign exchange.  Other imports, particularly
ot   0 capi-t3i  oΩ c, should expand in proportion to the projected increase in invest-
r   IX"t prices 3ave been good recently, but are now well below the levels
0 9, (u  1 the past fiscal year (1973/74) the current account of the balance
os payem.-s was in deficit again, partly due to large rises in prices of essential
rmporrs, atid partly due to delayed sales of some exports, mainly cotton.  The IMF
h-l s imade c compensatory financing loan of $21.6 million equivalent to assist bridge
the gap nLritil commodit-y sales recover, but in view of continued difficulty in the
market for cott-on, a balance of payments gap for 1974/75 also seem inevitable.
The net. foreign reserves of the country have been depleted since 1968, and at
Dece-mber 1973 they stood at a negative figure of US$100 million.  The latest IM
standy--by covering the period up to August 1975, provides 24 million SDRs.
1è.       By mid-1974, the Sudan's total external debt was estimated to be US$850
million euival ent, including undisbursed commitments of about US$450 million.
The b-reaiLdoun of the total debt outstanding by source shows that the Bank Group,
bilaTerall s-jurces and private banks are the three principal creditors with shares



of 23, 41 and 34 percent respectively. Debt service payments on long-term amounted
in 1973 to 11 percent (IBRD/IDA 3 percent) of the value of exports of goods and
non-factor services.  While the Sudan has a good record in meeting its repayment
obligations, such obligations over the next few years are likely to absorb an
increasing portion of its foreign exchange earnings.  A disturbing feature of
Sudan's external debt position has been the rising proportion of medium-term debt
contracted on commercial terms.   While a rapid increase in private and public
capital inflows is essential, it is equally important that the terms of public
capital inflow should be as concessional as possible. It is also important for
Sudan to give high priority to the productive investments and export promotion
policies which will enable it to substantially expand foreign exchange earnings.
The Sudanese are aware of the need to contain debt service within the country's
capacity to meet debt obligations. The Government informed the IMF that it has
adopted a policy of not increasing external debt of less than five years' maturity
and that longer-term debts will be limited to those that contribute to the develop-
ment of the economy and are on favorable terms. Given the current balance of
payments problem, the government may have difficulty adhering to this policy,
but in view of this policy, and the emphasis being given to the development of
Sudan's considerable productive potential, particularly in the agricultural
sector, continued support from IDA and other sources of concessionary funds is
warranted. The major infrastructure investments required for the development
of a country as large as Sudan dictate the need for a continued flow of con-
cessionary funds.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
16.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped to
finance various development projects with commitments totalling $249.5 million
and has been the country's single largest source of foreign aid. A major
portion of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and railway projects;
in addition we also helped with one power project and an education project,
a highways project, and three agriculture projects. The Bank/IDA share of
debt service is 22 percent (1973). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1975 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Progress on Bank Group operations in the Sudan varies.   Difficulties
in obtaining materials, high bids which often require re-tendering and weak-
nesses in management continue to slow down implementation. Three projects in
particular have encountered problems in implementaticn-the First Education
Project, which was very slow in starting off, but is now proceeding satisfac-
torily; the Third Railways Project, where progress towards improved operational
efficiency is very slow; and the Rahad Irrigation, which has faced management
problems and serious cost overruns. Recent discussions with the Government and
cofinanciers, following a major supervision mission, has resulted in an agreed
approach to the various problems, including the financing of the increased
cost of the project.  (See Annex II).   The placing of supervision responsibility
in our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa for some projects is helping to
provide effective and timely technical assistance at critical stages of project
implementation.
18.       No loans or credits were made to the Sudan between September 1968 and
June 1972, largely because of the Government's failure to take measures necessary
to overcome its economic difficulties. However, over the past two years the
situation has improved. The Government has resolved the conflict in the South
and an expansion in the level of expenditure on development projects is under
way, benefitting the whole country, including the backward Southern Region.
The financial measures taken under the continuing stand-by arrangements with
the II1F are further evidence of the Government's search for solutions to the
Sudan's pressing economic problems. While overall performance is still weak,
these steps provide justification for more active Bank Group assistance to the
Sudan.
19.       As the Sudan has considerable agricultural potential waiting to be
tapped, the Bank Group will continue to emphasize assistance to the agricultural
sector. IWlithin agriculture, we have recently made a credit for a major irriga-
tion project and for an Agricultural Rehabilitat-ion Project in the South.
In addition, we are assisting the Government in preparing projects in livestock
and mechanized farming and other fields of agriculture.   A second education
project, emphasizing training in the rural areas, is the subject of this report.
It will help to give a more vocational content to education curricula.
Lack of tr;Lnsport facilities continue to hamper movement of goods within the
country and to the outside world.  The Third Railway Project is intended to
improve rail transport and to help design further necessary improvements in



-7-
related transport facilities.   In addition, a Second Highway Project is under
preparation, and included in the agricultural rehabilitation program is about
350 miles of agricultural feeder roads in the Southern Region. With the first
credit to the Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS), the Bank Group is helping to
expand private investment in the growing industrial sector. The possibility
of a second credit to IBo is under discussion with the Government. The first
power project, which developed somie of the hydro-electric potential of the
Roseires Dan was completed in 1972.   Negotiations have been substantially
completed for a credit for the second power project, which will develop these
resources further and assist expansion of the electricity system in several ways.
20.       The Bank Group is actively seeking cooperation from bilateral sources
to supplement scarce IDA resources, for exanple in the financing of the Rehad
irrigation project. In 1973 the Consultative Group for Sudan, which had last
met in 196h, was reconvened. Most of the original member countries as well as
some new countries participated in this meeting and expressed interest in helping
the Sudan.  This seems likely to lead to increcised external assistance.  At an
appropriate time, currently expected to be in late 1975, a further meeting of
the Consultative Group will be held.



-8-
PART Ii:I - EDUCATION IN SUDAN
Background
21.       The educational system in Sudan has to be seen against the background
of the predominantly rural economy and scattered settlement of the country.
Approximately 85 percent of employment is in the rural areas, including both
the modern agricultural schemes and the traditional agriculture. Although the
urban population is growing at an estimated 7.5 percent; per annum, as opposed
to the estimated 1.3 percent in the rural areas, it is still relatively small.
There are only four cities with a population exceeding 100,000, with a total
population which is about 8 percent of the total for the country.   The pre-
dominance of the rural economy is being consolidated by the priority being
given by the Government to the development of the agricultural and rural
economy, both through expenditure on expansion of agricultural production and
on infrastructure and services essential to develop the agricultural potential.
22.       The educational system is also influenced by the linguistic differences
and other characteristics of the population. In the Central and Northern
Provinces, the population is mainly of Arab origin, with Arabic as the language
and Islam the predominant religion.  In the Soutlherrn Provinces, the people are
mainly Nilotic and Nilo-Hamitic, with as many as 12 languages, of which a form
of Arabic is the most common.  These people are of mixed religion, with some
Christians and Muslims. Another influence is the fact that a significant
proportion of the population, particularly in the South-Central and Southern
Provinces, follows a nomadic or semi-nomadic life, moving with its livestock
to follow the grazing as the rainbelt moves north and then south again.   The
most recent figures indicate that about 45 percent of the population (about
7 million) are aged under 15 years. This age group is expected to grow rapidly
to about 10 million by 1980. This rapid rise, together with the widely
dispersed population and the population characteristics referred to above
impose particular requirements on the structure of the education system. The
educational structure will have to adapt to these various requirements, and
plan its expansion to overcome the problems posed by them.
The Education System
23.       The existing educational structure has three levels of schooling
below the university level--primary (grades 1-6), junior secondary (grades
7-9), and upper secondary (grades 10-12).   At present approximately 38 percent
of the relevant age group is receiving primary schooling, 11 percent junior
secondary schooling and 5 percent senior secondary schooling. At the post
secondary level, enrollment is relatively high, by comparison with other developing
countries. The general education curricula are essenti-ally literary, which,
while facilitating a child's progress from level to level, means that dropouts
and school leavers Join the labor force without the skills and attitudes required
for specialized on-the-job training when they start work. Several major gaps
exist in the education system. For example, the school system could be used to
provide foci for non-formal training of youths and adults in a variety of



-9-
productive skills and for disseminating information in agriculture, hygiene,
nutrition, and child care. Similarly, specialist technical and vocational
institutes are few and far between. Only about 3 percent of children receiving
secondary education are receiving technical or vocational training. Another
major weakness is the severe imbalance in educational opportunities between
different parts of the country. At present 70 percent of school facilities
are in the towns and cities. While the illiteracy rate is estimated at 85
percent of the adult population for the country as a whole, it is as high as
95 percent in the rural communities. The widespread illiteracy and lowi level
of skills of the rural population are clear constraints to the development
of the rural economy. In the Southern Region, only about 10 percent of the
eligible children are enrolled in primary schools, compared to 47 percent in
the rest of the country. Less than 6 percent of the eligible age group is
receiving secondary education. The Southern Region has no post-secondary
institutions.
Education in the Southern Region
24.       Prior to Independence in 1956, education in the Southern Sudan was
primarily the work of Christian missionaries. Faced with a general lack of
resources and a limited presence in the South, the Government was content to
let missionaries operate the area's schools. However, with few qualified
teachers and small budgets, the missionaries were not able to expand the
educational system as much as was required to meet the needs of the South.
In all educational indicators, the Southern Sudan lagged far behind the other
regions of the Sudan. Following Independence, the civil strife led to
destruction or closing of most of the schools. The language issue exemplifies
the educational problems in the South. At home the people speak one of the
local languages. While pidgin Arabic is the commonest language spoken,
English has up to now been used at the secondary level. Yet since Arabic is
now the national language it is critical that it be used by all who receive
some education. This is made difficult by the fact that many of the teachers
in the Southern Sudan are not conversant in Arabic. In addition, many who
returned to the South after the peace settlement have had no exposure to
Arabic.
Administration and Finance of Education
25.       The management of education is highly decentralized when compared
with other East African countries. Except for the formulation of general
education policies and curriculum development,all activities relatirg to
primary and junior secondary are administered and supervised by Provincial
Councils. At the upper secondary level responsibility also lies with the
Provincial Councils in the Northern Provinces,and with the Regional Ministry
of Education in the Southern Provinces.
26.       Education is financed by the Central Government through a systei
of transfers to local authorities, primarily through the Ministry of Fd-ication
and the Ministry of Local Government. Higher education at the post secondary
level and technical and vocational secondary education and personnel in primary



-10-
teacher training are financed directly by various Central Government agencies.
The Southern Region has not yet developed independent revenue sources. As
a resullt; tb;e Central Government transfers funds to the Southern Regional
Government which in turn allocates a portion of these funds to the Regional
Ministry of Education.  A subvention is given by- the Regional Ministry of
Education to the three provinces which are r(esponsible for the primary and
junior secondary grades.
Development Strategy
27.       While m.ny of the problems facing the education sector are readily
apparent, their precise dimersions require considerable further study.  The
Government of Sudan plans to conduct a thorough examination of its education
sector, with- - view to defining a policy and strategy which would meet the
long-tern social and economic objectives of the country.  This examination
will identify targets of educational development for different population
groups, consider financial and other contraints and ways to reduce costs,
and recommend methods of making instruction more effective.  While the necessary
studies are being carried out, there are, nevertheless, high priority objectives
requiring early investment, some of which have been indicated above (para. 23).
These include:  expansion of learning opportunities for out-of-school youths
and adults to er,able them to participate more actively in the development of
the predominantly rural areas in which they live; tie need to redress the existing
imbalance in educational opportunities between the provinces and to improve the
relevance and quality of instruction; and the need to provide for the training
of middle level technicians required in the development of rural areais. The
proposed project is intended to help meet some of these nieeds.
28.       The disruption of education in the South during the disturbances
provides an opportunity to rebuild the system orn a somewhat different basis;
not merely to rehabilitate and replace what existed before, but also to begin
to transform the system into one which is more relevant to the needs of the
country. If the Sudan is to become fully integrated in the future, the educa-
tion system will play a vital role in the process.



-_l-
PART IV - TIE PROJECT
Background
29.       The Project has emerged from the work of the special economic
mission sent to the Southern Region of the Sudan in 1972, to assess the longer
term development needs of the Region. (See pa.ragraph 2 above). That mission
found, among other things, a severe l..ck of educational opportunities for
school-age children and for adults deprived of schooling during the distur-
bances, and an acute shortage of skilled manpower. The recommendations of
the mission led to a Bank/UNESCO mission in August 1973, which further explored
the Government's oriorities for educationa.l development and discussed the
content, size and timing of a possible project. The Government accepted
the analysis ;nd recommendations of the special economic mission, regarding
the needs of the Southern Region, but wished the Project to be extended to
other areas of Sudan (Kassala;, Kordofan and Darfur) whose needs are similar.
Abank mission visited Sudan in November/December 1973 and simultaneously
prepared and appraised the Project.  In Msrch and November 1974 further missions
visited Sudan to complete the appraisal of the Project. The report entitled
'Appraisal of a Second Education Project" (No. 48h-SU dated March 12, 1975)
is being circulted to the Executive Directors separately.
30.       The proposed Project will help in meeting the identified high priority
needs by:  (a) providing forty Integrated Rural Education Centers (IRECs)
with places for 12,000 primary school children; (b) building three new Junior
Secondary Schools; (c) extendi.ig a Primary Teacher Training Institute;
(d) extending and improving a VWcational Training Center; and (e) providing
15 man years of technical assistance for curriculum development, the reorganiza-
ticn of technical education and T}he education sector survey; ten man years of
technical assista.nce in implementln. the project and six man ye-rs of training
fellowships. Thirty of the IRlhC1s, a.ll three Junior Secondary Schools, and the
Vocation.l Training CenLer wili be Located in the 'out-hern Region.  The other
ten IRV.Cs and the extension to tle ;eacher Training Institlute will be loca-.ted
in the Northerrn Region.
Integrated Rural rducation Centers
31.       This type of sclhool is being developed in Sudan  to provide a focus
for village life, having a multipurpose function including primary schooling
(grades 1 - 6), and adult education and tranining in agriculture, farmer
cooperatives, domestic science, health and village crafts.  E.ch IREC will
also have a health clinic to provide preventative health care and a. store for
seed distribution, in particular to those who participate in farmer training
courses. The latter functicn will support the seed nmultiplication scheme of
the Agriculturail Rehabilitation Project (368a-SIJ). The location of the IRECs
will tike into account the centers of activity of the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project.  Teachers will be selected and recruited from among existing prirw,ry
school te-chers, who will undertpke at least six months special training.



-12-
Curriculum development and teacher training for the IREC program will take
place at the existing Bahkt er Ruda Teacher Training Institute, which will
be extended under the Project and supported by specialists in curriculum
development and rural education.   The local tradition of self-help will be
utilized where possible and, if successful, the number of IRECs to be built
will be larger than forty.   Support for the IREC programs will be provided
by the Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Rural Development and Coopera-
tives and other appropriate agencies, under the direction of an Interministerial
Committee of senior officials at the national level.
Junior Secondary Schools
32.       With assistance from various sources, the Government is now rehabili-
t2ting junior secondary schools in the Southern Region damaged during the
civil war. Nevertheless, only 17 percent of those completing primary school in
the Region find places in junior secondary schools (grades 7-9). The proposed
Project will establish three new schools at Aweil, Rumbek and Akobo. Together
with the existing schools being rehabilitated, these schools will provide
places for about 5 percent of the relevant age group of the Region, still a low
level by comparison with the 1 percent found in the rest of the country.
Teachers will be recruited from among graduates of existing intermediate teacher
training colleges, of whom there is an adequate supply.
Teacher Training
33.       As mentioned above (para. 30) the Bahkt er Ruda TeLcher Training
Institute (BRTTI) will be extended under the Project to accommodate 160
students for training in the IREC curriculum, and an IREC will be established
in a nearby village to serve as a laboratory for trainees. The Institute
will also be provided with a Curriculum Development Center, an early function
of which will be to create curricula more appropriate to the rural context of
the majority of the schools. A considerable technical assistance component
will support this change in emphasis of the curricula through provision of
experts from other countries and overseas fellowships for training staff of
BRTTI.
Vocational Training
34.       The Vocational Training Center at W.au (Behr al Ghazal Province) is
the only institution in the Southern Region which trains ski> ed workers, such as
carpenters, bricklayers, electricians, required for all development projects in
the Southern Region. The Project will expand the Center from 160 student
placesto 360. Teachers will come from graduates of the Higher Technical Teacher
Training Institute. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany will
provide equipment for the Center.
Cost Estimates and Financing
35.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$18.9 million, including
contingencies, which account for 47 percent of the total. The foreign exchange



-13-
component is estimated at $9.2 million. The proposed IDA credit of $10.0
million which would be on standard terms to the Democratic Republic (f the
Sudan, would cover 93 percent of the foreign exchange costs ($8.b6m) and 15 percent of
the local costs ($1.4m). The ±Uderal Republic of Genaany is providing its assistance
of $0.6 nillion to the Wau Vocational Training Center as part of its technical
assistance agreement with the Government of the Sudan. Under the system of
education finance, the recurrent costs to which the Project will, give rise
(estimated at $1.5 million per annum in 1980) will be born by the Provincial
Councils in the case of primary and junior secondary schoolilng and by the
Ministries of Education at the Center and in the South in the case of technical,
vocational and teacher training. The education budgets of the Provincial Councils
are heavily subsidized in the Northern Provinces by the Central Government and
in the Southern Provinces by the Regional Government. Recurrent inputs from
other ministries will be carried in the budget of the appropriate ministries.
Organization and Management
36.       The existing Project Unit, established withinL the Ministry of
Education for the implementation of the first IDA education project, will also
be responsible for the financial and administrative control of this Project.
To assist in implementation, a sub-Project Unit for the Southern Region will
be established in the Regional Ministry of Education in Juba. Due to the
increased responsibilities, additional staff will be assigned to the Project
Unit which will be further strengthened by specialist staff employed on a
temporary basis. Although the Project unit experienced difficulties in the
early period of implementation of the first project, these have been largely
overcome, and it is now handling the work load in a satisfactory manner.
37.       For the design, preparation of construction documents and supervision
of construction, the services of the Ministry of Construction and Public Works
(MCPW) will be utilized. To supplement the MCPW staff, provision for about
six manyears of specialist services is included in the Project. Should an
increased work load of MCPW delay Project implementation, then consultants
would be selected and appointed on terms and conditions mutually agreeable
to the Government and the Association. Standardized des,gns of the Project
institutions will be developed by MCPW, utilizing economical building costs and
standards, which would include maximum use of local labor and materials. The
intention is that as much labor as possible for the construction of IRECs will
be provided on a self-help basis. If the self-help element gives rise to savings,
they can be spent on additional IREGs. The sites for the IRECs are being
selected by committees in each of the provinces where IRECs are to be established.
An operational plan for the implementation of the design and construction program
has been agreed with the Government. In view of the physical difficulties
in the project area, seven years has been allowed for implementation of the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
38.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and irported
construction materials would be awarded following internationil competitive



-14-
bidding, after advertisement in Sudan, with the foli1oi-r_1n- exceptions:
30 IRECs would be constructed by departmental forces (force account)
utilizing self-help contributions where possible; contracts for equipment,
books and furniture costing less US$20,000 equivalent; locally procured
construction materials and transportation services which would be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding, under procedures which are satisfactory.
Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to permit bulk procurement. A
preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, would
be permitted to domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment. If foreign
civil works contractors compete for awards, qualified domestic civilworks
contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7   .
39.       Disbursement will be made against:   (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported construction materials, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, technical assistance and professional services; (ii) 80 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory) on locally manufactured furniture or equipment;
(iii) 60 percent of total expenditures for civil works and expenditures for
locally purchased construction materials, local transportation services,
labor for certain IRECs, locally purchased imported furniture -nd equipment.
MCPW expenses for professional services and project unit expenses.
Accounts and Audit
40.       The Project Unit includes an accountant who has been appointed
after consultation with the Association. He will be responsible for main-
tenance of the Project accounts. The Auditor General's Department will be
responsible for auditing the accounts.
Benefits and Justification
I1.       The Project will be an important instrument for developing skills
at several levels in some of the poorest parts of Sudan, with emphasis on the
training of craftsmen and skilled workers, non-formal education
for youths and adults of a type appropriate to the rural context, and the
expansion of junior secondary education to help generate an adequate supply
of middle and higher level manpower for the Southern Region. Additionaylly,
the Project will assist in directing a larger proportion of the resources available
for education to the parts of the country which have benefited least from the
education system.
42.       The Project will provide support for a major change in the curriculum
of schools in rural areas throughout Sudan towards the development of skills
and knowledge appropriate to the socio-economic conditions in these regions.
The emphasis will complement that of the First Education Project, which was
directed particularly at the provision of skilled manpower for commerce, indus-
try. services qnd large scale commercial farming.   The Project will support
fwuthei analysis of the priorities in the field of education, through support
for the planned education sector survey.
43.       The Project will, however, entail unrvoidable risks.   First, many
of the schools will be built inl remote areas of the country, where transportation
presents problems; for example, large areis of the Upper Nile Province are
flooded for long periods.  These physic.l problems could hinder the construction
program. Secondly, the Project is designed to make use of the tradition of



-15-
self-help in the construction work. '11is will require qualities of leadership
of a kind which cannot be quantified or provided for in advance. By the
nature of self-help, the extent of it will vary fron place to place. Thirdly,
the Project is helping to promote a new type of learning center, the IREC,
which remains to be tested for its effectiveness in rural development and in
the response it will receive from the village community. The IRECs will also
require c reful planning for their support on a multi-sectoral basis. Despite
the uncertainties fl-owing from theseé considerations, the Project concept is
appropriate to the regions which will benefit from it and offers the possibility
of curricula relevant to the rural context.
44.       To minimize these risks, several measures have been taken.    The
Government has established a sub-Project Unit in the Southern Region and is
carrying out part of the preliminary work toward selecting sites for the project
institutions. It has also prepared a detailed ouerational plan for execution
of the construction program, esoecial'Ly of the 30 IRECs to be built withL
self-help contributions. The zredit cgreement has also provided for inter-
ministerial coordination for the operation ard evaluation of the IRECs and
for the training of the personnel required (article 4.03).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMEDW`r' AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Denocratic
Republic of tle Sudsn and the Association, tl1e Report of the Committee
provid-.d f;-,r ii; Article V, Section 1 (cd) of t'he Articles ol Agrec-r-ent cf
the Association, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed crecit
;-,re being distributed to the Executive Dire^tors separately.
46.       I em satisfied that the proposed z:-edit, would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOI4ENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
March 25, 1975






Annex I
Page 1 of 3 Pages
WOTRTY DATA - SUDAN
AREA                                                 POPULATION                                   EENS7TI
2.5 ni.ha                                               6.57 mUilo   (mid-1972)
8e.5    Per ha2af arable land
SODCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Coneatries
19~70      1970        iy170
ONP PEN CAPITA 15$ (ar,AS BASIS) /;                                              1201.            170/a      2cC a        270Ia
P6MOGRAPI{IC 
C-d.rbrFth rate (per -oorsnd)                                    52 /b          in               J8 In       35 /d        so IW
Crde death rate (per taco-ad)                                  1) lb          18               18 77       1 JId        17 Ic
In~fant mortality rate (per tbhuaad live birthse)                917-b          .                55-       1Ω)          1507
Life enpntan..y at birth (yearn)                                 ..             -S                -bI       SOlA            __ 
Scone reprudoctian rate 7                                        .             3.1              3.1        3.0          3.1
PPoplation growth rate                                          2.6'           2.8 le           3.2AI      2.5 In       2.
PoPInulti_o groth rate - urban                                    .. If577                        7              1d
Age etrurtare (Per.  rt
0-M                                                          57~ It /k        5              iS Ii       U.i             In
15-61                                                          51N7          52        ~        8 77      52           17-d
65 and o-er                                                     c7-                              7      
De--ne iy ratio iS                                             iLi            1.3              i           2 .2         2.1
Ulrban population an p.roant of toteS                             8 It          13 /f            10 An.     12 /i        35  6±
F- lSy planning:i Na of enoeptoro   uultv     (thon..             ..                             .          .6
NO. or uner   (% or marriLed amen)            ...                                          .3
Total, labor foros (thooaoode)                               1,800 In       5,100 4s         5,100 I   ra .300/In e     UOD0 Id
Percentage nepinyad in arutce86 7-                                            80               70 D       5)           51 7d
P-eroetago unemployed                                         2. ..                           7. 
SAOQ?M DISTNIBUTUOR
Perneo  of nationl ..Income renied by hiflhent 5%                1              .
Penoent of national inooo caneh-d by highest 210%                52  t
Per-,n of naional inoome received by lowest 20%                   5.
Penn fntioal income reo-i-ed by 1oweat 40%                1   t
MSITHIBUTION OF' LAND OW#1RRSHItP
% owned by esallest 10% of owneres..
HEALTH AND NUTITNIION
Pupelahian Per Pdyica                                        30,0007       iSS15LO           7,830 I     1,910 Ia    13,270
Poplat%ico Per   -inetg preor                                   ..          1,950            1 127T      1.610 T.     2,760A/
Population per buapita1 bed                                   1,010 /k       1.01  In           770        160          61.0 7Wt
Per noplt alnolrie nupply an % of(requiraemets                                  85 A90                      1187 /1jA    61 a
D.Of ehilci, animal mond pulse.                                                21 7W            29         16 ~
Deth rate 1-1 years I?..7._
E2DUATIONI
Aid7totd /N priary scbool enrollment ratio                       13             25 /I            67         3DC          55
Adjueted Lg Peacoday nobool enrollme-nt ratio                     $              ,77             9O /b      33           12
Tears of schooling provided, first and! nased laneS              12             12               13          I'          12
Voca.tional -nrelarat as S of eec. school enrollnost              3              1/I              2         1,            3
Adult literacy rats 5                                                           19 7i1c          34/or,a    4ao  Idac    21 Id.af~.o
Average Ho. of persons per roan (urban)                          ..2.5 Ic                                               271 /d
P.roenufoccupied unite without piped water                       ..              6 7,gj
Annea. tc elsorirbity (ea % of total population)                 .               6la,--
Percent of Caro1 POPcI.lncn   .nonoctad to ele-trlioty           .              ...                         . 
CONDUMlTS2i
RadIo reneloer., per 1000 peopLaation                             180 /a                         41 /a     1143 /a       25/n
PaSsongeog caroe per 1.030 population                             .                                  .         -         15
Eleotrin Pover non-7tpien (lor, p.o.)                             N2i,          y                   7.i     2            2
Reweprini conaumption p.r. kg per year          ~~~~         ~~~0.1  0.1 /n    0.5 Iu      1.3 7W       0.3 L.
iNtro:  Figurer refe, either to the latest parioclo or to             account of ereironeental t-aperot-or, body .eJghte, ara
the leteuc yearn,laen      periods refer Ia pric-iple to          /   dnitrlibation by age anad na of notionl Popolation-a
the yearn -956-60 or I 96L-20; the latent yenre io prl-          /6   Protein standards )reqairmennt.e) fur olloutre       an aetab-
niple to 1960 ond 1972.                                               liahed by 1.5Dk iccoo.slo Re....rnh lar-ice pro-ide for a mmnte
11. The Per Copito GOP ostloaco ir at oarkot ;.nbuu fur               alianacc  of 60 gace of total protein par day, -oa 20 g-av     of
yoa-  otih- thor lYti,-atnulaod by t.he 0cr -.oo.e.oion           aain,l en  polar protei., of whiob 10 groen ehoald ha annel
tenhalgur an tie .972 World Sank AtI-n                            protein.  These etaondarda ar  no.n....hat loner than those at 75
72 Aceroge   -oebr of d-aghtern Per acor   of eprodu-ti-e             graves of total Protein and 23 gran  of anteai prtotin as -0
age.                                                              overage for tie world, p-opued by PAO in the Third World Food
7W  lhopcl.tio-  -roh -tcr   ore toe the drnrdre erdlog in            Survey
1960 urd 1970.                                                /7  L-on atdiro none ragganted that -r:ce death rates of children
/W  butln of 000cr 15 and 65 and n~er age breobets to                 ag.  I through ' nay be -ed as0firot appr-u-tiun indexr of
thoon in labor tome br.onit of ages 15 tbroagh 61.-.nelrteitio..
7W PAC refeenu   -cud-ro   repre-an  pvysiologinl i-            /E  Percentage .--oIle' of Cor--P-,m    g PoPoILtino If snno    age
nuircoonno for-- oeolativity and health, inking                   as Irf-nn nor ran' contry.
7In  1972; /b  Eotls.utc fOe 1955 bared on ranulto of 1955-56 s.n~ple coran of populaloon1; In     Ii noi-ue for 1961-'I; Id      1911
7:  1ipO-'7    If  Sityi-eight t.ma; I      962-9; A     2,000 or onto ioihuhltaote   /IiO    rruc     of Coio.     ionau,Pr
Said, isoaoWlin ow Soo; frontier govaeorrate and oapitals of other gonerora_tee ao neil an diecract cayituin; 7W 117
urba nte-m; 7W 1961; 7W 19,69 n~ Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over In total labor fuorc; In 1956; In 19n;55
7W Rtoof population  _nd en  2 -cd (and noner to labor force - age 12-63 Inure; 7W     Estlo,ate; Ic  Labor furor in a77
oruobet 15-59; (n Figure relate to poreone 12-64 frau-a of age; /t 1163; /0 ho,useholdis (Ondurea- -rban; /v G--eanc-
loop. to  encoblnovoninonly; I.  Number on tic reginter, non all woking in tie contry; Ia    Joldgndwuor3 and
asointz.n' rom   ; /y  Inolodro rura   hunpitalo; In   1961-66;   lao 19oS-9; let I,.oodig     tob    r .tainig ot the   nr
lovol; Ian   Defiitlun- ont an ailable; lad 1968, 7Wae  15 yearn1      -0r;            - /af rlndwi  a  Over 5 youro :Ad;
IoL irbri   onl7y; -1 -iTote or outride; /Canot71'hncnehoIis; lab t2511;71 Inoludi.g go.r--ont -ohlclen.
a M.-cm    h.. heoc enleoted an the   bJective au-try aecauso of nerlo-    ioloir         (siac of populatino, lank of
r     puuto  r-vnre, tportance of' agriculture, member of Arab onId, and an-eun to OF15 usoista-ne) and nan reacmd
at atgo of unoeiopoent to which the Sudan night aspire in th e odc:u temn. 
R? January 20. 1975



knnex I
Page 2 of 3 pages
EC,ONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIOIIAL PRODUCT IN F'f 1972                                 ANNVAL RATE OF CKRTH (X, constant prices)
USs Mln.     __                        1960 -65          1967 -70         1972
GNP at Market Prices          2113.0      100.0
Gross Domestic Investnent      218.6       10.2
Gross National Saving          179.5 C.0
Current Account Balance        -39.1       -1.c
Exports of Goods, NFS          361.3       -6.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          385.L       1,.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORGE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN Fy 1972
Value Added 1/               Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mlln.     %                 Mln.       %                  'JS $        %
Agriculture                    693.3       2
Industry                       273..
Services                       8  L..
TUnallocated
Totn/Aver-ge           18u6-     100.                  .                              ..       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                             Central Government
( Ls. Mln,)      % of GDP                   ( Ls. Min.)       % of GDPsF/
197          197        196 -7              FTY197'    F` 197,    FY 015   h-F1 197?
Current Receipts                    ..           ..          ..                 177.1      21.8
Current Expenditure                                          ..                 180.9      21.5            22.L
Current Surplus                                  ..- ..                                                     D.:
Capital Expenditures 3/             .,           ..          ..                  29.6       4.0            L1.1
External Assistance (net)           ..           ..          ..                    .7       l.l             1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              FY 19f,8     FY 1970     FY l'7     FY 1972     FY 197'     Fl 197L
(Million Ts. outstandingend period)
Money and Quasi Money                   92.0        127.3       132.8       1LO.8     182.0        239.6
Bank credit to Public Sector            62.0         96.7       110.L      106.2      177.3        185.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector           6C.5        60.3        73.1        70.5       92.8        136.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       16f.0        2].1       20.8        18.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         ..           ..
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      ..           ..
Bank credit to Public Sector             *.          30.5      10.2         32.0      21.3         0.L
Bank credit to Private Sector                       -1.3       21.2         -3.6      31.6        07.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rate prevailii.g during the period
covered; which was unch. nged throughout at Ls I = US$2.872
1/ At fa.ctor cost                             .. not available
not applicable
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Develooment Budget (includes some capital e4penritures by other public entities)



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLCWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPCRTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1971     1292     1973                                              US $ Mln
=illinns US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS             355.2    373.2    491.8
Imports of Goods, NFS             381,7    495      446.0
Resowuce Cap (deficit             27-)     -36.3 L     5.
Cotton                            217.6      58.3
Interest Payments (net)            -2.5    -16.7    -14.6              Gum arabic                        23.1        6.2
Workers' Remittances                 -       -         -               Groundnuts                         26.3       7.3
Other Factor Payments (net)       -10.7     -5.8     -7.8              Sesame                            30.6        9.2
Net Transfers                      -2.3      7.2       2.3             All other commoditioe              75.5      20.2
Balance on Cturrent Account   -52.0        -3        25.7                Total                           373.1     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          -1.1      0.3      -                EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disburseien.ts                   16.3     39.6     90.2
Amortization                    _30.9    -33.8    -40.3
Subtotal                        _1i        518      9.9              Public Debt, incl. MLranteed                382.7
Capital Grants                      -        -        -                Non-Guaranteed Priv"tc Debt
Other Capital (net)                19.8      3.7      8.7              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i.                 -6.8    -10.9    -61.7                                         1
Increase in Reserves 9')          -.f77    -30.9    +22.6              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197r'
Gross Reserves (end year)          29.0     38.1     72.4                                                            X
Net Reserves    (end year)        -97.2   -128.1   -105.5
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                10.9
F'uel and Related Materials                                            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                          26.1     25.8     25.4              Total outstandirg & Disbursed
of which: Petroleum            25.9     25.6     25.2
Exports                           1.0      2.6      2.6
of which:  Petroleum            1.0      2.6      2.6              IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Fob, 1975) (Yillion US $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBHP      IDA
Thlrough -l9                                                         Outstanding & Disbursed            79.b      17.3
US $ 1.00 =111. 0.348                                                Undisbursed                         -       101.9
Ls.  1.00 = US $2.872                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      79.*     119.2
Since March 1972 Effective Rate of Exchange Ls. 1.00 = U.S. $2.50 for all trdnsactions except for the proceeds from
cotton and gum exports which are converted at the official exchange rate.
j Ratio cf Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
January 3L, 1975
Eastern Africa, Program I



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of February 28. 1975)
Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No. Year Borrower                 Purpose         Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                127.2   12.4
Credit 122  1968  Sudan              Education                    8.5       6.8
Credit 311  1972  Sudan              Mechanized                  11.2       9.2
Farming II
Credit 331  1972  Sudan              Highway                      7.0       6.5
Credit 36h  1973  Sudan              Rahad Irrigation            42.0       41.4
Credit h47 1973   Sudan              Industrial Bank              4.O        3.3
of Sudan
Credit 457  1974 Sudan               Railways III                24.o      24.0
Credit h76  1974  Sudan              Agricultural Re-            10.7      10.7
habilitation
Project
127.2  119.8      101.9
Total -
Of which has been repaid                            47.8     .6
Total now outstanding                                   79.h  119.2
Amount sold:                          5.8                -
Of which has been repaid          5.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA a                        79.4  119.2
Total Undisbursed                                        -    101.9      101.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Feb. 28, 1975)
Type of   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                   Obligor                  Business  Loan    Equity   Total
1964    Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.         Textiles
and
1972    Total gross commitments                           1.87    0.37     2.21
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              1.63    0.07    1.70
Total commitments now held by IFC                 0.24    0.27     0.51
Total Undisbursed                                 0       0        0
g/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and eight credits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence
for the following projects.
Credit No. 122 Education Project; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 24, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have beer- caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Although these problems were to a large extent beyond the control
of the Project Unit, the latter's capacity to deal with problems has improved,
and work is now proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements have picked up and
should now go more smoothly. Slight cost overruns will be met by the Government.
Extension of the Closing Date is likely. We will continue to monitor the
project closely.
Credit No. 311 Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan - 1.038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended
by 75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12, 1972.
Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clearing and
area under production are ahed of schedule and cooperation of other agencies
involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road construction
and water supplies has greatly improved. Progress on road improvements and
construction of a training centre are still behind schedule. Feasibility
studies for further expansion of mechanized farming have started. Disbursements
are picking up and should grow quite rapidly now.
Credit No. 331 Highway Project; US$7.0 M4illion Credit of September 29, 19,2;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corporation
in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and maintenance
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



Annex I   l
Page 3 of 4
program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials. Also
included are feasibility studies of about 500 km.. of roads followed by detailed
engineering of nbout 350 km. and technical assistlance to the Ministry of
Transport in transport planning and trr2ining of IDCR staff. The project is
progressing satisfactorily on the whole. Although the consultants reports
were delayed, they have now been presented to the Government and the Associa-
tion. Implementation of some of the recommendations is under way and provided
the award of contracts for equipment and spare parts is not delayed, the
project should be completed on schedule. The Government has selected consultanits
for the feasibility studies of about 600 kas. of roads. 350 kms. of these
roads are likely to form the basis for a second highway project in the future.
Credit lio. 364 Rahad Irrigation Project; Us$U2 Million Credit of
March 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is expected to irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres
which are now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad
River.  It. will, use water punped from the Blue Nile and will inc]ude the
construction of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provi-
sion of agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settle-
ment of about 11,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the
necessary infrastructure sand supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID
are participating in the financing of this project by providing a loan of
US$11 million each. The Credit became effective on August 29, 1973. There
has been progress in preliminary earth-moving, design work and procurement
of equipment.  Problems have been encountered in nmnagement of the project, and
there has been a poor response to invitations to bid for construction work
and supply of equipment. Significant cost overruns, stemming from various
causes, appear cert-.in.  IDA recently participated irn discussions with the
Government, its consultants and the Kuwait Fuld and reached agreement on an
approach to the various project problems and to the financing of the expected
cost overruns. The project problems included difficult procurement issues,
the schedule for the introduction of improved irrigation and agricultural
techniques and project management. The Board wilL be informed in more detail
about the progress of the project when proposals for financinig of modifications
to the project and of the cost cverruns are made.
Credit No. 447 Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) Project; UT$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project will help the Industrial Bank of Sudan, which is an
existing development finance company, to function more effectively in
financing industrial development in the private and public sectors in the
Sudan.  The Credit became effective on March 15, 1974. The Credit was expected
to meet IBS' requirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through
1975, bu-t business has expanded rapidly and the Association has alrendy
approved sub-projects exceeding US$3.5 million. A possible second credit
for 1BS is beirng sppraised.



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 457 Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project is intended to help improve the R.ilways' operational
standards end provide the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the trunk
routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary transport modes
by including components to assist river transport, port development and civil
aviation. The Credit became effective on July 29, 1974. Contracts for supply
of much of the equipment under the credit have been awarded. We are concerned
at the 'Lack of urgency shown in the efforts to improve operational efficiency,
the major objective of thie project and crucial for the country's development
program in general, and have raised this matter with the Government at the
highest level. We are also concerned at the possible impact on the project of
the decision to accelerate the dieselization of the locomotive fleet. Sudan
Railways and their consultants are working on the training and maintenance
implications of this decision.
Credit No. 1X76 Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$10.7
Million Credit of June 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to
farmers, (ii) expandirg e-tension services (iii) establishing a center for
nutrition research, and (i') improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vacciration, marketing and research. The project also
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establishing
the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry.   Research, credit and technical
assistance, including staff fc- a Project Development Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture to implement the p-oject, are also included. The project became
effective on September 9, 1974. Some key staff members have been appointed
and work is in hand on recruiting further staff and providing housing for them.
Seed trials and seed multiplicatinn are under way. The associated cattle
vaccination campaign, financed laigely by Germany, is under wmy. A slow start
to this project was expected, but i supervision mission currently in the field
is reviewing the progress of the project, and will discuss with the Government
iequirements for its more rapid implementation.



Pnnex III
Page 1
SUDAN
Credit and Project Sunmary
Borrower:             The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:               US$10 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard IDA terms
Project Description:  This project is aimed at meeting the most critical
requirements of the educational system, especially
in Southern Sudan, and at reorienting the entire
educational sector in the Sudan to help meet the
current needs of the Coumtry.  It will (i) provide
training facilities for out-of-school youths and
adults (ii) upgrade and provide facilities for primary
and junior secondary education (iii) strengthen teacher
education and curriculum development (iv) expand
training of skilled workers, and (v) assist a nation-
wide education sector review. The project will be
administered by a Project Unit in Khartoum and a sub-
Project Unit in the Southern Region and includes
provision for 25 man years of technical assistance and
six man years of training fellowships. A National
inter-ministerial committee will be set up to coo1dinate
the programs of Integrated Rural Education Centers.
Procurement
Arrangement:          Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment,
vehicles and imported construction materials would
be awarded following international competitive bidding,
after advertisement in Sudan, with the following
exceptions: 30 IRECs would be constructed by depart-
mental forces (force account) uti_'izng self-help
contributions where possible; contracts for equipment,
books and furniture costing less US$20,000 equivalent;
locally procured construction materials and transportation
services which would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to permit bulk procurement. Preference would
be given to domestic manufacturers (i5%) and civ4il works
contractors (7'0) if foreign manufacturers and contractors
compete for awards.



Annex III
Page 2
Cost of Project:                                US$ l4illions
Project Cost                     Financed by
Local   Foreign   Total        Govt.           Fed. Rep.
Costs     Costs               of Sudan    mA   of Germi.
Civil Works, Furniture
& Instructional Equipt.
1.  Integrated Rural
Education Centers       2.63     2.19     4.82
2.  Junior Secondary
Schools                 0.85     0.71     1.56
3. Teacher Training
Institutes              0.36     0.39     0.75
4. Vocational
Training
Center                  0.44     0.32     0.76
Sub-Total                 4.28     3.61     7.89         2.15     5.74     o.60
Professional Services       0.30     0.20     0.50          0.17     0.33     -
Technical Assistance        0.28     0.64     0.92          0.28     0.64     -
Project Administrative      0.04     0.07     0.11          0.02     0.09     -
Contingencies               4.84      4.05     8.89         5.69     3.20     _
Total Project Cost          9.74     8.57    18.31          8.312   10.0     -
FRG 2/                        -      O.60     0.60          -        -       0.60
9.74     9.17    18.91         8.31    10.0     0.60
(52%)     (48%)   (100%)        (44%)   753%)    (3%)
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
(US 000's)
FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81         FY82
280        1,005       3,020       2,275       2,190         730
J  Includes estimated taxes of US$1.9 million
2/ Equipment for vocational training centre contributed by the Federal Republic
of Germany.



Annex III
Page 3
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 48h-SU dated March 12, 1975.
Map:                     A map of the distribution of the proposed physical
proiect facilities is attached (IBRD 11076 Rev.).



IBRD 11076R
SUDAN              2'25  ARAB  REPUBLIC    3O'                               -     FERUAWY 1975
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                 OF EGYPT     -. -                 J
__                                             ,Jt~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadi Hollo 
=*;w- River se(vice                I.-.-:.-        -
t  I  I . Roilwoys
' Airports
B.tumnous surfoced roods  n\                                         :
Roods ond trccks, all seoson  .                                       .
ÖRoads cnd trocks, ry season  lb  ...............              Abuham   o   ,              Part 20'
- -   Internationol boundories  _                                                        /  r Sudan
DARFUR 1 Provinces            F                 N O R T H       RN 
. --- ----IProvinc[ol coundories                        Dongol                           /  0.
*   Notional capitol       H|J              *y
*   Provincol capitals      In* I                       X-nKia                           / f Tk
O Towns onc villcges                                                      b ElAtrun        t  Tokor,
∞  X        7r_         ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Atboro aI \1&ß 
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS:                       *                               I_
I   Vocationol Traininc Center -Wou
T Teacher Training Institute- Ed Dueim
Jumnor Secondary Schools-                 .. .   .\  . .  . .
Akobo, Aweil, Rumbek                                                Shendi
Education Cer                                            Ordursn  Khanourno ;iorth   t 
Integrated Rurol    }                                          KHARTOUM)  *           -   assaio
Educatoro Cerlers ;'                                               .jS  L    |Y          \1\
Provinces  No of Centers r:
Bohr el Ghozal  10                                                /       W oedani
Equotor'o   10Nv 4/XDeim'                                                        _ 
KordoanR N.e Genejna /    ztui,-, 9      ~<ty                                       DS 
Upper Nile  10                 EFh r                       Bara  .A        S e
Kosst alosilg z                                                   -    .       JOe
Blve Nile  Ir        D      \                  f R  F        A  N          ,
Zolingei  N0a1 K              R 
r    (            .........40  Sites          l                       -n  a
to be  1                      .      a,  t      '
determined~
REPUBLICS    en /ahus           **      /   - -   riS . errJlK  M a
QAF R I C AN  ... H       ......     W   w     \ #,li                  --
I             l        z A I  R E      /         \   '    /     t         ETHIOPIA H
SUDAN                                           'UGNA                    <-
___________O_______tt tet,x btt 3eC lAlr 1                                        ~K E   tY A



