CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 547 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 547 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 16, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1975, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwi,e
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Integrated Rural Education Centers" or "IRECs" means the integrated
rural education centers to be established under Part A(i) of the Project;
(b)   "Project Unit" means the special unit referred to in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement; and
(c)   "Project Director" means the person employed as project director of
the Project Unit pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.05(b)(i)(1) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing
August 1, 1985, and ending February 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project:


﻿5
(i)         the Borrower shall employ the specialists described in Part B(1)
of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)        the Borrower shall select persons to serve as the fellows described
in Part B(2) of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement
whose qualifications and terms and conditions of assignment are
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Parts A(ii) to (iv) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Construction and Public
Works: (i) to supervise construction of the institutions included in the Project;
(ii) to prepare standardized designs to be used for construction of such institutions;
and (iii) to ensure utilization of economical building standards incorporating
maximum use of local labor and materials for the construction of the said
institutions.
(c)   The   Borrower    shall employ    consultants whose     qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association to assist its Ministry of Construction and Public Works in executing
the responsibilities which the Borrower shall under paragraph (b) hereof assign to
that Ministry should the Ministry at any time, because of excessive workload or
other cause which the Borrower and the Association may determine, be unable
to execute the said responsibilities expeditiously or consistently with the schedule
agreed by the Borrower and the Association for implementing the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equipment of the
educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
repaired and renewed, as necessary.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) By September 30, 1977, or such other date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall: (i) study
the Borrower's labor market and its public sector hiring and incentives policies
and practices, (ii) study methods to improve efficiency in the Borrower's education
system and to achieve reduction of unit recurrent costs and (iii) exchange views


﻿7
with the Association on its findings from the studies carried out in sub-paragraphs
(i) and (ii) above and the action the Borrower intends to take as a result thereof.
(b)   Within one year of the date of this Agreement, or such other date
as shall be agreed by the Borrower and tle Association, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its comments its revised curriculum for primary education,
its plan for adult education and its program for training IREC teachers.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall establish within one year of the date of this Agreement
an inter-ministerial committee in Khartoum to be responsible for planning and
overseeing the implementation of the Borrower's IREC programs, coordination
among its ministries and agencies carrying out IREC programs and periodic
evaluation of the effectiveness of IRECs in the development of village life in the
Sudan. The said committee shall consist of a senior official of the Borrower's
Ministry of Education as chairman; senior official3 of the National Planning
Commission and the Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture, Food and Natural
Resources; Finance and National Economy; Construction and Public Works, Health
and Social Welfare; and Local Government; and such other ministries or agencies
as shall be deemed appropriate; and the Project Director as secretary.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes that it will ensure that qualified
teachers are available in adequate numbers as and when needed to teach in the
educational institutions included in the Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project continue
to operate and maintain the special unit established within its Ministry of Education
under Section 4.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement (Education Project)
No. 122 SU dated June 24, 1968, and shall strengthen the said unit through the
establishment of a sub-unit in Juba.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that:
(i)         the Project Unit in Khartoum shall consist of the following staff:
(1)   a project diiector directly responsible to the undersecretary of
the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(2)   an assistant director;
(3)   a procurement officer and a quantity surveyor;


﻿8
(4)   an accountant; and
(5)   such other supporting staff as shall be required for the efficient
carrying out of the Project; and
(ii)       the sub-unit in Juba shall consist of the following staff:
(1)   an assistant director directly responsible to the Project Director;
and
(2)   such other supporting staff as shall be requ2red for the efficient
carrying out of the Project.
(c)   The  Borrower undertakes to     consult the Association   on  the
qualifications and experience of any person being considered for the positions of
Project Director, assistant project directors and accountant.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 14, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.07, 4.01,
4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower, Addresses
Section 6.01. The Commissioner General for Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Cofditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Commission
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan


﻿9
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s / Mohamed Sanhouri Yousif
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                    1,740,000           60%
(excluding items
in Category (2)
below)
(2)   Construction                   3,000,000
materials and
labor:
(a)   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
materials
(b)  locally pro-                                  60% of local ex-
cured mater-                                 penditures
ials and labor
for IRECs con-
structed by
force account
(3)   Furniture:                       215,000
(a)   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)   locally                                      80% of local ex-
manufactured                                 penditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  imported                                      60% of local ex-
goods pur-                                   penditures
chased locally


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(4)   Instructional                     350,000
and other equip-
ment:
(a)   directly                                      100% of foreign
imported                                      expenditures
(b)   locally                                       80% of local ex-
manufactured                                  penditures
(ex-factory)
(c)   imported                                      60% of local ex-
goods pur-                                    penditures
chased lo-
cally
(5)   Technical                         640,000           100% of foreign
Assistance                                          expenditures
(6)   Design and                        330,000
supervision of
construction in-
cluded in Part A
of the Project:
(a)   Equipment
and vehicles
(i)         directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(ii)       imported                                 60% of local ex-
goods pur-                               penditures
chased lo-
cally
'(b)  Salaries and                                   60% of local ex-
operating                                     penditures
costs


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              o of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7)   Local trans-                     430,000           60% of local ex-
portation (con-                                    penditures
struction ma-
terials, furni-
ture and equip-
ment)
(8)   Project Ad-                       90,000
ministration:
(a)   Equipment
and vehicles
(i)        directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(ii)       imported                                60% of local ex-
goods pur-                              penditures
chased lo-
cally
(b)   Salaries and                                 60% of local ex-
operating                                    penditures
costs
(9)   Unallocated                    3,205,000
TOTAL         10,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿13
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist in the expansion and improvement of education in
the Sudan through the reorientation and strengthening of primary and teacher
education, the provision of further junior secondary schools and the training of
more technicians and skilled workers. The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    The design, construction, furnishing and equipment of: (i) about forty
integrated rural education centers, (ii) three junior secondary schools, (iii)
an extension to the Bakht-ar-Ruda Primary Teacher Training Institute at
Ed-Dueim, and (iv) an extension to the Vocational Training Center at Wau.
B.    The provision of about 25 man-years of specialist services and 6 man-years
of fellowships.
C.    An education sector review to be carried out with the assistance of education
planning consultants.
Further details of the Project are set forth in the Annex hereto attached, said
Annex being subject to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿15
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Institutions
Estimated Student       Approximate
Places            Gross Area of
Construction
Institution        Location          Addition   Total             M2
Integrated Rural         Sites to be        12,000     12,000          36,680
Education                selected
Centers (40)
Junior Secondary       Akobo                   150        150           1,564
Schools (3)             Aweil                  150        150           1,564
Rumbek                  300        300           3,142
Teacher Training        Ed-Dueim               160        640           2,611
Institute (1)
Vocational             Wau                     200        360           3,402
Training Center (1)
B.   Technical Assistance
1.   Specialists:
(a)  Ministry of Education
(i)        Rural Education Specialist                36 man-months
(ii)       Farmer Cooperative Specialist              36 man-months
(iii)      Education Planning Consultants            24 man-months
(b)  Teacher Training Institute
(i)        Curriculum Development Specialist         24 man-months
(ii)       Rural Education Specialist                24 man-months
(c)  Higher Technical Teacher Training Institute
Education Specialists                      36 man-months
(d)  Ministry of Construction and Public Works
(i)        Structural Engineer                       24 man-months
(ii)       Mechanical Engineer                        12 man-months
(iii)      Quantity Surveyor                         24 man-months
(iv)       Architect                                  12 man-months


﻿16
B.      Technical Assistance (Continued)
1.     Specialists: - (Continued)
(e)  Project Unit
(i)        Procurement Specialist                      24 man-months
(ii)       Quantity Surveyor                           24 man-months
2.   Fellowships:
Teacher Training Institute
(i)        Curriculum Development Fellow               24 man-months
(ii)       Teaching Aids and Materials Fellow          24 man-months
(iii)      Rural Teacher Education Fellow              24 man-months


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Bidders for civil works shall not be prequalified, except as
provided in Part C(1)(a) of this Schedule.
(ii)        Invitations to  bid  for contracts subject to    international
competitive bidding shall be advertised in the principal
newspapers of the Sudan and copies thereof shall be promptly
transmitted to local representatives of the member countries of
the Bank and Switzerland.
3.    (a) Contracts for (i) furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000 each, up to an aggregate of the equivalent of $100,000,
(ii) construction materials available in the Sudan and (iii) local transportation of
construction materials, furniture, equipment and other Project items, shall be let
after competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the Borrower's
usual procurement procedures.
(b)   IRECs may be constructed by force account or self help methods
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
4.    All contracts referred to in paragraphs (1) and (3) above shall, consistently
with sound procurement procedures, be grouped to the extent practicable to form
sizable bid packages to permit bulk procurement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c. and f. (port of
entry)   price   for   imported    goods,   or   the   ex-factory   price   for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on


﻿18
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Sudan may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Sudan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing'cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Sudan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Sudan.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c. and f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c. and f. bid price


﻿19
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors who wish to      apply for domestic preference shall be
required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
Applicants applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the
information for qualification, such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications, of their eligibility for
domestic preference and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:


﻿20
(a)   With respect to all contracts for equipment, vehicles, furniture or
construction materials:
(i)         Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association
for its approval, the lists of all items of furniture, equipment,
vehicles, and construction materials under Categories (2), (2),
(4), (6) and (8) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement showing tfne
specifications and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall
be indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the
respective educational institutions and, where appropriate, the
spaces for which they are required. Amendments to such lists
which may be made from time to time shall also be submitted
to the Association for approval.
(ii)        Procurement shall be limited to those items of equipment,
furniture and construction materials which are specified in the
approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph
and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same
indexes, codes and numbers as in such lists.
(b)   With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more and contracts for equipment, vehicles, furniture
or construction materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(i)         Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall
inform the Association of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids.
(ii)        After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,


﻿21
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(iii)       The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(iv)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


